                            Development Review Committee
                                 1020 East Pioneer Road
                                   Draper, UT 84020
                                   February 18, 2022

To:             Draper City Planning Commission
                Business Date: February 24, 2022

From:           Development Review Committee

Prepared By: Todd A. Draper, AICP, Planner III
             Planning Division
             Community Development Department
             801-576-6335, Todd.Draper@draperutah.gov

Re:     City Initiated 2021 Bulk Text Amendment Request #2
        Application No.: TEXTMAP-0203-2021
        Applicant:        Draper City
        Project Location: City Wide
        Current Zoning: City Wide
        Acreage:          City Wide
        Request:          Request for approval of a Text Amendment in order to modify
                          Draper City Municipal Code (DCMC) Sections 9-3-040, 9-11-070, 9-
                          22-030, 9-22-040, 9-22-050, 9-25-050, 9-25-080, 9-27-120, and 17-
                          1-040, and to enact Sections 9-5-220, 17-1-160, and 17-5-035 for
                          the purpose of amending regulations pertaining to definitions,
                          exactions, special regulations in commercial zones, deviations
                          from design standards, building design, site design, parking
                          location, parking area design and construction, height limitations
                          and exceptions, cross access and connectivity, and other
                          typographical and de minimis corrections.



BACKGROUND AND SUMMARY
This application is a request for approval of a Text Amendment that includes multiple
changes to Titles 9 and 17 of the DCMC including changes to definitions, special regulations
in commercial zones, deviations from design standards, building design, site design,
parking location, parking area design and construction, height limitations and exceptions,
cross access and connectivity and other typographical and de minimis corrections.




City Initiated 2021 Bulk                                        App. #TEXTMAP-0203-2021
Text Amendment Request #2                     1
Proposed changes also include the enactment of new sections regarding exactions in Titles
9 and 17 and cross access and connectivity in Title 17.

A Notice of Intent to amend the Draper City Municipal Code pertaining to cross access
between commercial developments, access points, road connections, height deviations for
commercial properties, and helipads was posted and mailed on November 11, 2021. The
notice for the public hearing of this application was made on December 30, 2021. Both
notices included notice of intended regulations for helipads. Helipad provisions were
ultimately not included in the legislative text of this ordinance and instead will be
addressed in a separate text amendment application.

At the January 13, 2022 meeting of the Planning Commission the public hearing on this
item was held and a motion was approved to continue the item to the February 10, 2022
Planning Commission meeting to allow staff more time to look into issues raised during the
public hearing. At the request of staff, the Item was continued on the February 10, 2022
meeting agenda to the February 24, 2022 Planning Commission meeting for
recommendation to the City Council.



ANALYSIS
Text Amendments. This report will review the modifications being proposed. The legislative
copy of the changes can be found in Exhibit B of this report. Additions to the text are
indicated in blue, deletions in red, and unchanged text in black.

DCMC Section 9-3-040: Definitions: A definition of Abut or Abutting is proposed to be added to
define the meaning of the term as used throughout the land use and development code.

A definition for Cross Access is proposed to be added to the code to define the term as used
in proposed ordinance changes pertaining to access and connectivity between properties.

A small modification to the term Mixed Use Center is proposed to drop the word center
from the definition term as the term is not used within the code, but the term Mixed Use is
used. The definition of the term references the definition of Planned Center and functionally
remains the same.

DCMC Section 9-5-220: Exactions: This is a new section proposed to be added to the
ordinance. The general premise is to formally recognize the city’s ability to impose
exactions on development. This section also provides for a review of exactions by the
Community Development Director, and for an appeal of their decision.

DCMC Section 9-11-070: Special Regulations: The proposed changes include better defining
and limiting the scope of what structures and building elements may apply for and receive
a deviation from the established height limits in commercial zones. The CN and TC zones



City Initiated 2021 Bulk                                         App. #TEXTMAP-0203-2021
Text Amendment Request #2                     2
are currently excluded from requesting deviations under this section and the proposed
ordinance language would maintain this exclusion. The proposed limitations for all other
commercial zones mimic those of the TC zone.

Under the proposed changes, the maximum amount of a height deviation that can be
granted for an architectural feature of the building is fourteen feet (14’). The architectural
feature also cannot exceed an area greater than ten-percent (10%) of the gross floor area
of the uppermost story of the building, and cannot create additional habitable area or
usable building floor space. The deviation standards continue to require additional
architectural detailing of the building, however the current design criteria in ordinance are
proposed to be amended to provide greater clarity and definition of the specifically desired
design elements being sought. These changes will eliminate the option to request
additional height which allows additional stories and floor area in a building.

DCMC Section 9-22-030: Deviation from Design Standards: The proposed modification clarifies
which sections of the Chapter contain design standards from which a deviation from the
Planning Commission may be sought, and removes the height and roofline standards of
DCMC Section 9-22-040(D) from consideration for a deviation under the Section. The list of
criteria for requesting a deviation have also been amended to more clearly identify the
desired project elements sought. Reviews for deviations from the cross access and
connectivity standards for site design are directed to utilize the same criteria listed for
deviations from the cross access and connectivity requirements for parking located in
Chapter 9-25. Additional proposed changes clarify that the applicant is responsible for
demonstrating to the planning commission that the deviation request meets the minimum
3 criteria for consideration and the benefits to the City in granting the deviation.

DCMC Section 9-22-040: Building Design: Modifications to Subsection D of this Section are
proposed for the purpose of removing subjective and unenforceable provisions, clarifying
that parts of a building projecting beyond the roofline must use materials and colors
similar to the rest of the building, and enhancing the requirements for the screening of
roof mounted mechanical equipment and systems. As the proposed language for DCMC
Section 9-22-030 would remove the ability to request deviations from this Subsection,
regulations governing the allowance of additional building height for the screen walls, up to
a maximum of fourteen feet (14’), are included in the proposed changes to this Subsection.

DCMC Section 9-22-050: Site Design: Proposed modifications to Subsection F of this section
include removing some subjective and unenforceable provisions of the ordinance language
and the addition of requirements to provide cross access and connectivity between sites.
The outdated term deadmen is proposed to be replaced with the more appropriate and
descriptive term wheel stops, and additional clarifications are proposed for providing and
maintaining the minimum five feet (5’) of free travel width on pedestrian walkways.
Additions to the subsection are proposed to set standards for providing and requiring
cross access and connectivity between abutting nonresidential and mixed use



City Initiated 2021 Bulk                                         App. #TEXTMAP-0203-2021
Text Amendment Request #2                     3
developments, including the recordation of perpetual and reciprocal easements and a
prohibition on gating across the access.

DCMC Section 9-25-050: Parking Location: Proposed modifications to Subsection J of this
Section includes a change in the language to require compliance with the ordinance rather
than strong encouragement of compliance and reinforces the need to provide cross access
between existing and anticipated abutting developments. The proposal elevates the
current suggestion to place parking away from streets and between buildings to the level of
a requirement to do so to the greatest extent possible.

DCMC Section 9-25-080: Parking Area Design and Construction: Subsection E of this section
deals with cross access requirements between abutting properties. Proposed modifications
to the ordinance include a clarification that cross access is required between mixed use
developments as well as nonresidential developments, and that parking areas must comply
with the same standards proposed for Section 9-22-050(F)(6) and 9-22-050(F)(7). Additional
modifications are proposed to better clarify the circumstances under which the Planning
Commission may allow for a deviation from ordinance to not provide cross access.

DCMC Section 9-27-120: Subsection B of this Section is proposed to be amended so that the
height of integral architectural features of churches or other places of worship such as
spires, towers, belfries, cupolas and domes not used for human occupancy is not
restricted. The indiscriminate allowance for other features listed to exceed the height limits
of the applicable zone is proposed to be removed. Height exceptions for rooftop
mechanical equipment and systems proposed to be removed from this Subsection are
proposed for inclusion into DCMC Section 9-22-040.

DCMC Section 17-1-040: Definitions: Definitions are proposed to be added for Abut or
Abutting, Cross Access, and Mixed Use that reference the identical definitions in the Land Use
and Development Regulations, Section 9-3-040.

A new definition for a Stub Street is proposed for addition to the definitions in this section.
The definition for a Street in Title 9 encompasses and includes all streets as defined in Title
17, so the addition of the definition for a Stub Street is appropriately added only to this
Section. The definition describes a stub street as a type of street end that abuts another
property with the intent that it will be extended at a future time.

DCMC Section 17-1-160: Exactions: This is a new section proposed to be added to the
ordinance. The general premise is to formally recognize the city’s ability to impose
exactions related to subdivision development. This section also provides for a review of
exactions by the Community Development Director, and for an appeal of their decision.

DCMC Section 17-5-035: Cross Access: This new section is proposed to be enacted so that
easements for cross access and connectivity between properties with or intended for



City Initiated 2021 Bulk                                           App. #TEXTMAP-0203-2021
Text Amendment Request #2                      4
nonresidential and mixed use development will be shown and recorded with any
subdivision plat.

Criteria For Approval. The criteria for review and potential approval of a Text Amendment
request is found in Sections 9-5-060(E) of the DCMC. This section depicts the standard of
review for such requests as:

        2. Text Amendments:
             a. Whether the proposed amendment is consistent with goals, objectives and policies
                 of the city's general plan;
             b. Whether a proposed amendment furthers the specific purpose statements of the
                 zoning ordinance;
             c. Whether the proposed amendment is appropriate given the context of the request
                 and there is sufficient justification for a modification to the zoning ordinance;
             d. The proposed amendment will not create a conflict with any other section or part
                 of this title or the general plan;
             e. Whether the potential effects of the proposed amendment have been evaluated
                 and determined not to be detrimental to public health, safety, or welfare and
                 represents an overall community benefit; and
             f. The extent to which a proposed text amendment implements best current,
                 professional practices of urban planning, design, and engineering practices.



REVIEWS
Planning Division Review. The Draper City Planning Division has completed their review of
the Text Amendment submission. Comments from this division, if any, can be found in
Exhibit A.

Engineering and Public Works Divisions Review. The Draper City Engineering and Public
Works Divisions have completed their reviews of the Text Amendment submission.
Comments from these divisions, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Building Division Review. The Draper City Building Division has completed their review of the
Text Amendment submission. Comments from this division, if any, can be found in Exhibit
A.

Fire Division Review. The Draper City Fire Marshal has completed his review of the Text
Amendment submission. Comments from this division, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Legal Division Review. The Draper City Attorney has completed his review of the Text
Amendment submission. The request complies with federal and state laws and Draper City
ordinances. Comments from this division, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.




City Initiated 2021 Bulk                                            App. #TEXTMAP-0203-2021
Text Amendment Request #2                       5
Noticing. Notice has been properly issued in the manner outlined in the City and State
Codes.



STAFF RECOMMENDATION
Staff recommends that the Planning Commission review the request, receive public
comment, and make a decision based on the findings listed below and the criteria for
approval, or denial, as listed within the staff report.

The findings for approval as are follows:

        1.      The proposed amendment is consistent with goals, objectives and policies of
                the city's general plan;
        2.      The proposed amendment furthers the specific purpose statements of the
                zoning ordinance;
        3.      The proposed amendment is appropriate given the context of the request
                and there is sufficient justification for a modification to the zoning ordinance;
        4.      The proposed amendment will not create a conflict with any other section or
                part of this title or the general plan;
        5.      The potential effects of the proposed amendment have been evaluated and
                determined not to be detrimental to public health, safety, or welfare and
                represents an overall community benefit; and
        6.      The proposed text amendment implements best current, professional
                practices of urban planning, design, and engineering practices.

The findings for denial as are follows:

        1.      The proposed amendment is not consistent with goals, objectives and
                policies of the city's general plan;
        2.      The proposed amendment does not further the specific purpose statements
                of the zoning ordinance;
        3.      The proposed amendment is not appropriate given the context of the
                request and there is not sufficient justification for a modification to the
                zoning ordinance;
        4.      The proposed amendment will create a conflict with another section or part
                of this title or the general plan;
        5.      The potential effects of the proposed amendment have been evaluated and
                determined to be detrimental to public health, safety, or welfare and does
                not represent an overall community benefit; and
        6.      The proposed text amendment does not implement best current,
                professional practices of urban planning, design, and engineering practices.




City Initiated 2021 Bulk                                            App. #TEXTMAP-0203-2021
Text Amendment Request #2                       6
MODEL MOTIONS
Sample Motion for Approval – I move that we forward a positive recommendation to the
City Council for the Text Amendment, as requested by Draper City for the City Initiated
2021 Bulk Text Amendment #2, application TEXTMAP-0203-2021, based on the findings and
subject to the conditions listed in the Staff Report dated February 18, 2022.

Sample Motion for Modified Approval– I move that we forward a positive recommendation
to the City Council for the Text Amendment, as requested by Draper City for the City
Initiated 2021 Bulk Text Amendment #2, application TEXTMAP-0203-2021, based on the
findings and subject to the conditions listed in the Staff Report dated February 18, 2022
and as modified by the findings and conditions below:

1. List any additional findings and conditions…

Sample Motion for Denial – I move that we forward a negative recommendation to the City
Council for the Text Amendment, as requested by Draper City for the City Initiated 2021
Bulk Text Amendment #2, application TEXTMAP-0203-2021, based on the findings and
subject to the conditions listed in the Staff Report dated February 18, 2022.




City Initiated 2021 Bulk                                      App. #TEXTMAP-0203-2021
Text Amendment Request #2                     7
                                   EXHIBIT A
                              DEPARTMENT REVIEWS

REVIEWS ARE NOT MEANT TO BE AN ALL INCLUSIVE LIST OF POSSIBLE COMMENTS OR
CONDITIONS.



Planning Division Review.

   1. The proposed modifications provide needed updates to Titles 9 and 17 of the
      Draper City Municipal Code. Adopting the proposed changes will improve the
      functionality of the ordinance.
                                    EXHIBIT B
                                LEGISLATIVE DRAFT

9-3-040: DEFINITIONS:

ABUT OR ABUTTING: Contiguous with or sharing a common property line,
boundary, border, or protection strip.

…

CROSS ACCESS: A means of access between one (1) or more properties, usually by
means of a recorded perpetual easement.

…

MIXED USE CENTER: See definition of Planned Center.

…



9-5-220: EXACTIONS:

    A. The city may impose an exaction or exactions on development proposed in a
       land use application, if:

       1. An essential link exists between a legitimate governmental interest and
          the exaction; and

       2. The exaction is roughly proportionate, both in nature and extent, to the
          impact of the proposed development.

    B. An applicant may request the Community Development Director or designee
       review an exaction or exactions for compliance with the standards listed in
       subsection A. The Director or designee will issue a written opinion.

    C. An applicant may appeal the decision in accordance with Draper City
       Municipal Code 2-4-060.



9-11-070: SPECIAL REGULATIONS:

    A. Increased Height Limits: Notwithstanding the height limitations shown in
       section 9-11-110, table 9-11-2 of this chapter, greater building height may be
       allowed in all commercial zones, except the CN and TC zones, pursuant to
       approval of a deviation by the planning commission. The planning
commission may approve deviations from the height limitations in section 9-
11-110, table 9-11-2 of this chapter for architectural features of buildings
such as; towers, spires, chimneys, and clocks. A deviation under this section
is not permitted for properties in the CN and TC zones. Any deviation
Deviations approved under this section shall meet the following standards:

1. The overall proposed height of the architectural feature shall not have a
   material adverse effect upon the character of the area or the public
   health, safety and general welfare not exceed fourteen feet (14') above
   the applicable building height limitations of section 9-11-110, table 9-11-2.

2. The proposed height shall be constructed and arranged so as to be
   compatible with the use and development of neighboring properties with
   respect to scale and massingThe deviation shall not create a detrimental
   impact to public health, safety, or general welfare.

3. The building will be designed to relate to the human scale and
   incorporate at least one of the following:

   a. Architectural detailing included on the ground floor to emphasize the
      pedestrian level of the building, including, but not limited to,
      intermediate cornice line, sign band, awnings or portico feature,
      change in building materials, and window shape.

   b. Include architectural detailing at the cornice level or accentuated
      building zones, when appropriate to the architectural style of the
      building.

   c. The roofline contains architectural features that give it a distinctive
      form or skyline, or the rooftop is designed for purposes such as
      rooftop gardens, common space for building occupants or the public,
      viewing platforms, shading or daylighting structures, renewable energy
      systems, and other similar uses.

3. The overall area of the architectural feature may not exceed ten-percent
   (10%) of the gross floor area of the uppermost story of the building.

4. The architectural feature shall not create additional habitable area or
   usable building floor space.

5. The overall building design shall incorporate one or more of the following:
        a. Architectural details that emphasize the pedestrian level of the
           building, including but not limited to, a cordon or belt course, sign
           band, awnings or porticos, a change in building materials, or a change
           in window shapes;

        b. Architectural detailing of the façade that includes a projecting cornice
           at the roofline and cordons or belt courses between floors, or
           accentuated building façade zones, as fitting to the architectural style
           of the building; or

        c. Other architectural features at the roof level that create a distinctive
           form or skyline, including, but not limited to, rooftop gardens, viewing
           platforms, shading or daylighting structures, renewable energy
           systems, and other similar features.



9-22-030: DEVIATION FROM DESIGN STANDARDS:

  A. Purpose: In the event anAn applicant may requests a deviations from the
     development design standards of sections 9-22-040 and 9-22-050 of this
     chapter with the exception of the height and roofline design standards of
     subsection 9-22-040(D) and has submitted a project that contains features
     and excellence in design above and beyond those required, the planning
     commission shall have the discretion to amend some or all of the design
     standards, as long as such deviation is consistent with the purpose and
     intent of the policies and development standards pertaining to the applicable
     zoning district or land use category as described in this chapter. Deviations
     from the design standards of 9-22-050(F) shall meet the deviation criteria
     listed in 9-25-080(E)(2).

  B. Deviation Criteria Threshold: The planning commission shall take into
     consideration at least three (3) of the following criteria in considering a
     deviation of design standards Proposed developments requesting a
     deviation under this section shall meet at least three (3) of the following
     criteria:

     1. The project contains proposed development includes additional
        amenities such as or pedestrian and bike connectivity in excess of what is
        otherwise required in the development code and site plan review.
   2. The overall percentage of dedicated public or private landscape and open
      space area provided within the proposed development exceeds the
      required amounts by more than ten percent (10%).

   3. The project proposed development is a transit oriented development
      (TOD) and provides direct connectivity for active transportation methods
      to a transportation facility.

   4. Traffic impacts on the neighborhood are lessened The traffic impacts of
      the proposed development will be mitigated through programs, such as
      creative design, traffic calming measures, companywide carpool or transit
      pass programs, or other similar measures.

   5. The project is proposed development is designed to meetan accredited
      LEED certification standardsdevelopment.

   6. The variations are consistent with the purpose of this chapter and any
      applicable master plan or ordinance.

   7. 6. The project proposed development is required to create a consistent
       and compatible design in cases which involves redeveloped buildings,
       additions to existing buildings, minor structures being added to a site, or
       is a new buildings within a previously approved phased project
       development and the deviation is necessary to create a consistency with
       other existing buildings.

   8.7. Additional landscape plant material is provided Vegetative landscaping
      (excluding lawn, turf, and groundcovers) exceeds the amounts required in
      this Title by at least ten percent (10%)more than the minimum required,
      including additional planting beds, plants, trees or a combination thereof.

   9.8. The building design is designed by a licensed architect in a specific
      architectural style, such as contemporary or modern, which that utilizes
      facade materials differently then than prescribed in subsection 9-22-
      040(F) of this chapter and is designed by a licensed architect.

   10.9. The amount of primary materials used for a each building facade is at
      least exceeds the required amount by more than ten percent (10%)
      greater than the minimum required amount.

C. Request Responsibility: The applicant shall demonstrate to the planning
   commission the benefit of amending the standards of this chapter that the
   development application meets three (3) or more of the criteria of subsection
   9-22-030(B) above and that the deviation is of benefit to the city by:
       1. Providing a written description and analysis of the specific development
          standards to be lessened proposed design standard deviation(s) and an
          analysis of the selected criteria from subsection 9-22-030(B) above. The
          analysis analyses shall be written by a licensed professional, such as an
          architect, engineer or landscape architect;

       2. Providing a written justification as to why the city should lessen or alter
          deviate from its design standards indicating that indicates any benefit to
          the city or to the project.

    D. Findings Required: The planning commission may approve deviations from
       the development design standards listed in this chapter only if it finds, based
       upon a finding of facts as stated in subsection B of this section, that the
       deviation is in the benefit of the health, safety and welfare of the city and the
       project.:

       1. That the requested deviation is consistent with the purpose and intent of
          the development standards of the applicable zoning district or land use
          category; and

       2. That the proposed development satisfies at least three (3) of the criteria
          listed in 9-22-030(B).



9-22-040: BUILDING DESIGN:

…

    D. Height And Roofline: All buildings shall demonstrate an appropriate roof
       height that is compatible with the building's location, and vary rooflines in
       order to add architectural interest and avoid the appearance or sense of
       monotonous roofline expanses. All buildings shallby:

       1. Demonstrate appropriate roof height for the location based on zoning
          regulations and the height of buildings within the immediate area;

       2.1. ProvideProviding roofline and parapet variations where there are long,
          continuous, and undisturbed rooflines fifty feet (50') or greater longer;

       3.2. Use similarUsing materials and colors on the back of false fronts,
          parapets, cornices, or other parts of the building which extend beyond
          the roofline or main that are similar to the rest of the building so that the
          building appears cohesive from all views; and
       4.3. Provide for screening of Screening mechanical equipment and systems
          that need to be are mounted on the roof. The height of screen walls for
          mechanical equipment and systems located on the roof may extend
          above the typical building height limits in the zone, but shall not extend
          higher than the equipment being screened, or fourteen feet (14’),
          whichever is less. Screen walls permitted to extend above the typical
          height limits in the zone under this section may not be utilized for
          building signage. Any minimal portion of these pieces of the mechanical
          equipment or systems that may not be fully shielded screened from view
          shall be painted a the same color which is compatible with as the roofing
          or parapet materials.

…



9-22-050: SITE DESIGN:

…

    F. Parking And Street Circulation: Lifestyle, separated land uses, and lack of
       sufficient public transit have created the need for parking and access for
       automobiles onto most commercial sites. Measures shall be taken to
       Applicants for development shall ensure that needed parking areas are
       designed in such a way as to have a minimal impact on the built environment
       as possible and provide vehicular and pedestrian connectivity to abutting
       sites.

       1. Developments which generate significant increases in traffic should
          include an analysis of the proposed development's impact on the current
          and future transportation system, and methods to control traffic (such as
          signage, turn lanes, and traffic signals). The content of such analysis
          should follow guidelines established by the city Each application shall
          comply with the traffic impact study guidelines and related requirements
          as adopted in section 11-02-060 of this code.

       2. Major internal circulation drive aisles and roadways that provide access
          from the public right of way or between buildings on the same site or
          which provide required connectivity or cross access to abutting sites shall
          be separated from parking areas using curb and gutter and a
          combination of any of the following methods:

          a. Landscaping;
   b. Pedestrian walkways; or

   c. Lighting.

3. Pedestrian walkways shall have a minimum five foot (5') wide free travel
   width. Where deadmen are not used to keep vehicles off the roadway,
   two feet (2') shall be added to the walkway for vehicle overhang in
   addition to the five foot (5') wide free travel width. Additionally, where
   other encroachments into the walkway exist, widths of the walkways shall
   be increased to ensure the five foot (5') wide free travel width.Pedestrian
   walkways shall have a minimum five feet (5') wide free travel width.
   Where wheel stops are not used to keep vehicles off the walkway, the
   pedestrian walkway shall be a minimum of seven feet (7’) wide.
   Additionally, where other encroachments into the walkway exist, widths
   of the walkways shall be increased to ensure the minimum five feet (5')
   wide free travel width.

4. Cross access for automobiles and pedestrians to future and existing
   commercial developments shall be provided during initial site planning
   and construction, and in perpetuity. Abutting nonresidential or mixed use
   developments accessing a street of a major collector or arterial class shall
   provide a combined street access between sites. If a combined street
   access is provided between abutting sites, the city may waive cross access
   requirements between their parking areas.

5. Nonresidential and mixed use developments shall:

   a. Provide perpetual cross access for pedestrians, vehicles, and
      emergency vehicles to abutting properties with existing or planned
      nonresidential and mixed use developments;

   b. Connect to existing stub streets, cross access drives, and pedestrian
      walkways that abut the property;

   c. Connect to any existing streets on the property; and

   d. Stub new proposed streets, drive aisles, sidewalks, and walkways to
      abutting properties to facilitate the applicable future cross access and
      connectivity between abutting properties.

   6. Perpetual cross access between properties subject to this section shall
      be:
          a. Designed to accommodate customary pedestrian, vehicular, and
             emergency vehicle access, the required width of which shall be
             determined by the fire marshal based upon the requirements for fire
             access roadways;

          b. Provided by paved access drives or roadways between the properties;

          c. Provided through recorded access easements for ingress and egress
             across the access drives or private streets within the development;

          d. Reciprocal between abutting properties; and

          e. Recorded prior to issuance of a land disturbance permit or building
             permit.

          7. Gates are not allowed across a cross access drive or street under this
             section.

…



9-25-050: PARKING LOCATION:

…

    J. Development Parking: Parking within and between areas for nonresidential
       and mixed use developments is strongly encouraged to shall be provided in a
       manner that provides for a cohesive environment be located and designed to
       facilitate cross access between adjacent both existing and anticipated
       abutting developments. Placement of parking for adjacent abutting
       nonresidential and mixed use developments are strongly encouraged to shall
       locate parking between the buildings and away from streets frontages to the
       greatest extent possible.

…



9-25-080: PARKING AREA DESIGN AND CONSTRUCTION:

…

    E. Cross Access:
1. Cross access between existing, proposed, or anticipated nonresidential
   and mixed use developments shall be designed and provided as follows
   comply with the following standards:

   a. Parking areas associated with all nonresidential and mixed use
      developments shall be designed to accommodate cross access to
      existing and anticipated abutting neighboring nonresidential and
      mixed use developments;

   b. Nonresidential and mixed use developments on individual parcels
      which have access onto a street of a major collector or arterial class
      shall provide cross access for parking areas to abutting neighboring
      sites of a similar circumstance;

   c. Adjacent nonresidential developments accessing a street of a major
      collector or arterial class shall provide a combined street access
      between sites;

   d. In the event any nonresidential site provides, or is designed to
      provide, a combined street access with an abutting site, cross access
      between their parking areas may be waived in lieu of the provision
      the combined street access; and

   e.c. When crossCross access is to be provided, a reciprocal easement to
       effect those provisions required under this section shall also comply
       with the standards listed in subsections 9-22-050(F)(6) through 9-22-
       050(F)(7) shall be recorded with the office of the county recorder
       against each property involved at the time of development or
       redevelopment of the individual parcels.


2. Nonresidential developments may be approved without providing cross
   access when the planning commission finds that:

   a. The cross access would result in a slope greater than twelve percent
      (12%);

   b. Requirements of this title prevent the provision of cross access by
      creating a nonconformity in those requirements; or

   c. The uses for which the cross access would link are incompatible; and
          d. The site cannot be otherwise designed to accommodate the cross
             access and avoid the conditions of subsections E2a through E2c of this
             section.

       2. Deviation from the requirement to provide cross access; the planning
          commission may approve a deviation from the requirement to provide
          cross access upon finding that the required cross access:

          a. Would result in the slope of the cross access drive exceeding twelve
             percent (12%);

          b. Would result in a violation or nonconformity with other requirements
             of this title;

          c. Creates a hazard to health, safety, or welfare by linking two uses, such
             as industrial and residential, that would be incompatible with each
             other; or

          d. Would require connection to an abutting development which:

              (1) Was not previously designed and required to provide reciprocal
                  cross access to the subject property; or

              (2) Includes required site improvements that physically impede the
                  ability to create a cross access drive between both properties.

…



9-27-120: HEIGHT LIMITATIONS AND EXCEPTIONS:

…

    B. Additional Height Allowed: The provisions of this title shall not apply to
       restrict the height of integral architectural features of a church or place of
       worship that are not used for human occupancy, including but not limited to
       church spires, towers, or belfries; clock towers, cupolas, or domes not used
       for human occupancy; monuments; chimneys; water tanks; elevator
       bulkheads; or properly screened mechanical appurtenances located on the
       roof of a building. Public and semipublic utility buildings may be erected to a
       height not exceeding thirty five feet (35') if the building is set back from each
       property line at least one foot (1') for each additional foot of building height
       above the normal height limit required for the zone in which the building is
       located.

…

17-1-040: DEFINITIONS:

ABUT OR ABUTTING: See definition of abut or abutting in 9-3-040.

…

CROSS ACCESS: See definition of cross access in 9-3-040.

…

MIXED USE: See definition of mixed use in 9-3-040.

…

STREET, STUB: A street ending extended up to an abutting property that is intended
to be extended through the abutting property and/or provide cross access in the
future.

…



17-1-160: EXACTIONS:

    A. The city may impose an exaction or exactions on development proposed in a
       land use application, if:

       1. An essential link exists between a legitimate governmental interest and
          the exaction; and

       2. The exaction is roughly proportionate, both in nature and extent, to the
          impact of the proposed development.

    B. An applicant may request the Community Development Director or designee
       review an exaction or exactions for compliance with the standards listed in
       subsection A. The Director or designee will issue a written opinion.

    C. An applicant may appeal the decision in accordance with Draper City
       Municipal Code 2-4-060.


17-5-035: CROSS ACCESS AND CONNECTIVITY:
A. All subdivisions of land zoned or intended for nonresidential or mixed use
   development shall provide vehicular and pedestrian connectivity between
   lots within the subdivision and other existing or intended nonresidential or
   mixed use development abutting the property. This shall be accomplished
   through compliance with the site design standards applicable to plats listed
   in subsection 9-22-050(F). Required easements for providing pedestrian and
   vehicular cross access and connectivity between properties shall be included
   on the subdivision plat and state that it is for the benefit of abutting
   properties.
