MINUTES OF THE DRAPER CITY PLANNING COMMISSION HELD ON THURDAY,
MARCH 24, 2022 IN THE DRAPER CITY COUNCIL CHAMBERS

PARTICIPATING:               Chairperson Andrew Adams, Commissioners Mary Squire, Craig
                             Hawker, Lisa Fowler, Gary Ogden, and Tab Bingham

ABSENT:                      Commissioners John Van Hoff, Susan Nixon, and DeLaina Tonks

STAFF PRESENT:               Jennifer Jastremsky, Maryann Pickering, Fred Aegerter, Amie
                             Salazar, and Spencer DuShane

6:30 PM Business Meeting:

Chairperson Andrew Adams called the meeting to order.

1.     Action Item: Approve Planning Commission Meeting Minutes for January 13, 2022
       (Administrative Action)

Motion: Commissioner Mary Squire motioned to approve the Planning Commission
Meeting Minutes for January 13, 2022

Second: Commissioner Tab Bingham

Vote: A roll call was taken with the Commissioners voting 5-0 in favor of the motion.
Commissioners Fowler, Squire, Hawker, Ogden, and Bingham voted, “Aye”.

2.     Public Hearing: Approve Planning Commission Meeting Minutes for February 10,
       2022 (Administrative Action)

Motion: Commissioner Ogden motioned to approve the Planning Commission Meeting
Minutes for February 10, 2022 as presented.

Second: Commissioner Lisa Fowler

Vote: A roll call was taken with the Commissioners voting 5-0 in favor of the motion.
Commissioners Fowler, Squire, Hawker, Ogden, and Bingham voted, “Aye”.

3.     Public Hearing: Approve Planning Commission Meeting Minutes for February 24,
       2022 (Administrative Action)

Jennifer Jastremsky, Senior Planner, indicated she had some changes made to the February 24,
2022 planning commission meeting minutes including minor clarifications to the portion under
Draper 138 2 Zoning and Land Use Map Amendment. She indicated some of the minor changes
included corrections to the address and clarification on the land use designation in addition to
some grammar and spelling corrections. She shared that under Item 3 there were a few grammar
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
March 24, 2022

and name corrections. She stated that she also added the public hearing being opened and closed
under Item 5 and the time of adjournment under Item 6.

Motion: Commissioner Craig Hawker motioned to approve the Planning Commission
Meeting Minutes for February 24, 2022 with the modifications that were presented.

Second: Commissioner Mary Squire

Vote: A roll call was taken with the Commissioners voting 5-0 in favor of the motion.
Commissioners Fowler, Squire, Hawker, Ogden, and Bingham voted, “Aye”.

4.     Public Hearing: Sax Spy Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit (Administrative
       Action)

On the request of Derek Crane for a Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit in order to
conduct private music lessons and cottage business for online sales and creating arts and crafts
for online sales in his home. The property is located at approximately 14364 S. Dreamfield
Drive in the R3 (Single Family Residential, 13,000 square foot lot minimum) zoning district.
Staff contact: Maryann Pickering, 801.576.6391, maryann.pickering@draperutah.gov.

Maryann Pickering, Planner III, presented an aerial photo of the site and indicated the land use
map designation was residential medium density and the zoning is R3. She shared the site plan
provided by the applicant. She noted that the applicant intended to provide saxophone lessons
for one student at a time typically in the afternoons as well as create saxophone lesson videos
with the help of a friend. She stated that the applicant additionally did third party online sales of
saxophone photographs and memorabilia. As a fourth part of the plan, it was indicated that the
applicant would like to use their 3D printer to create miniature saxophones as well as saxophone
parts to sell online in the future. She noted that she had not received any objections to the
application.

Jacqueline Crane, Applicant Representative, remarked that sound paneling had been added to the
basement studio to prevent issues with noise.

Chairperson Adams opened the public hearing on the item. No comments were offered, and the
public hearing was closed.

Motion: Commissioner Hawker motioned to approve the Home Occupation Conditional
Use Permit as requested by Derek Crane, Application USE-034-2020 based on the findings
and subject to the conditions listed in the staff report dated March 15, 2022.

Second: Commissioner Fowler

Vote: A roll call was taken with the Commissioners voting 5-0 in favor of the motion.
Commissioners Fowler, Squire, Hawker, Ogden, and Bingham voted, “Aye”.

5.     Public Hearing: City Initiated DCMC 9-6-080 Text Amendment (Legislative Action)


                                                  2
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
March 24, 2022

On the request of Draper City for a Text Amendment to Draper City Municipal Code Section 9-
6-080 “Nonconformities Created by Public Action”, in order to address nonconformities other
than area and setback that are created by public action. Application TEXTMAP-78-2022. Staff
contact: Mike Barker, mike,barker@draperutah.gov.

Spencer DuShane, Assistant City Attorney, provided a copy of subject section of the current
code. He noted that the code currently allowed for nonconformities regarding lot size and
setback standards created by public action and the proposed amendment would apply this same
allowance for nonconformities due to public action in other standards such as landscaping. He
noted that the allowed nonconformities would only apply to already developed properties. He
indicated that the code was being proposed to correct a blind spot in the code and allow for more
equity.

Commissioner Hawker expressed concern that the city could be creating unsafe lots for residence
by allowing for some of these nonconformities rather than getting rid of the homes. He indicated
that 13800 South and 1300 East street were an example of where he believed the road expansion
requiring land acquisition could be creating unsafe properties.

Ms. Jastremsky stated that sometimes the city acquired the entire properties and the homes and
sometimes they did not. She noted that those decisions were made by the engineering
department, and she was not familiar with what the standards were. She clarified that the intent
of the change was to create an avenue for home and business owners to continue existing and be
compliant with code even when public action must be taken on their property.

Commissioner Hawker indicated that by doing this property owners could be pigeonholed into
having a property that is unsafe or unsellable.

Mr. DuShane remarked that the engineering department followed national highway safety and
transportation administration standards for road safety. He noted that the current code also
specified that those properties with 75% or greater of the required minimum lot size would not
require a variance hearing. He explained that it was proposed for the new code to not include that
percentage standard.

Chairperson Adams opened the public hearing on the item. No comments were offered, and the
public hearing was closed.

Motion: Commissioner Fowler motioned to forward a positive recommendation to the City
Council for the text amendment as requested by Draper City for the City Initiated DCMC
9-6-080 Text Amendment, Application TEXTMAP-78-2022, based on the findings and
subject to the conditions listed in the staff report dated March 16, 2022.

Second: Commissioner Ogden

Vote: A roll call was taken with the Commissioners voting 4-1 in favor of the motion.
Commissioners Fowler, Squire, Ogden, and Bingham voted, “Aye”. Commissioner Hawker
voted, “Nay”.


                                                3
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
March 24, 2022


6.     Adjournment

Motion: Commissioner Hawker motioned to adjourn the meeting.

All were in favor.

The meeting adjourned at 6:51 p.m.




                                          4
