Coversheet
Item Coversheet MEMO To: Planning Commission
From: Maryann Pickering, AICP
CC:  Date: April 14, 2022
Re: Norman Family Flag Lot Land Use and Zoning Map Amendments Comments: This application is a request for approval of Land Use and Zoning Map Amendments for approximately 0.84 acres located on the south side of 13560 South and to the east of 150 East. The property is currently zoned RA2. The applicant is requesting a Land Use Map Amendment from Residential Low/Medium Density to Residential Medium Density and a Zoning Map Amendment from RA2 to R3.  The subject site includes a residence that was built in 1995.  The parcel has never been subdivided and is not part of a subdivision. The findings are as follows: For approval:
1. The proposed amendment is consistent with goals, objectives and policies of the city’s general plan.
2. The proposed amendment is harmonious with the overall character of existing development in the vicinity of the subject property.
3. The proposed amendment is consistent with the standards of any applicable overlay zone.
4. The proposed amendment will not adversely affect adjacent property.
5. The facilities and services intended to serve the subject property are adequate, including, but not limited to, roadways, parks and recreation facilities, police and fire protection, schools, stormwater drainage systems, water supplies, and wastewater and refuse collection.
6. The land use map amendment complies with standards found in DCMC Section 9-2-020(F), DCMC Section 9-5-060(D), and Utah Code Annotated 10-9a-404.
For denial:
1. The proposed amendment is not consistent with goals, objectives and policies of the city's general plan.
2. The proposed amendment is not harmonious with the overall character of existing development in the vicinity of the subject property.
3. The proposed amendment is not consistent with the standards of any applicable overlay zone.
4. The proposed amendment will adversely affect adjacent property.
5. The facilities and services intended to serve the subject property are not adequate, including, but not limited to, roadways, parks and recreation facilities, police and fire protection, schools, stormwater drainage systems, water supplies, and wastewater and refuse collection.
6. The land use map amendment does not comply with standards found in DCMC Section 9-2-020(F), DCMC Section 9-5-060(D), and Utah Code Annotated 10-9a-404. ATTACHMENTS: Description Upload Date Type PC Staff Report 4/7/2022 Backup Material