                                        RESOLUTION NO. 22-50

          A RESOLUTION OF THE DRAPER CITY COUNCIL ACCEPTING A DEED OF
          CONSERVATION EASEMENT FROM THE GRANTOR D.R. HORTON.

        WHEREAS, D.R. Horton (“Grantor”) owns approximately 100.98 acres of land (the “Property”)
in Draper City in the northern part of Utah County; and

        WHEREAS, Grantor intends to convey a deed of conservation easement (“Easement”) under the
Utah Land Conservation Easement Act, Utah Code Sections 57-18-1 through -7 (2022) and other applicable
provisions of the Internal Revenue Code and Utah statutory and common law; and

          WHEREAS, the Easement is attached hereto as Exhibit A; and

        WHEREAS, Grantor desires and intends that the conservation values of the Property be preserved
by the continuation, initiation, or introduction of activities on the Property that sustain said values,
including, but not limited to wildlife viewing, public recreation, education and ecological interpretive use;
and

       WHEREAS, Grantor, as the fee owner of the Property, holds the right to identify, conserve,
enhance, and protect in perpetuity the conservation values of the Property; and

         WHEREAS, Draper City (“Grantee”) is a governmental entity qualified under Section 170(h) of
the Internal Revenue Code to receive qualified conservation contributions; and

        WHEREAS, Grantee has agreed to accept this Easement upon the condition and understanding
that the mutual intentions of Grantor and Grantee regarding the future preservation of the Property as
expressed in this Easement shall be forever honored and defended; and

     NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF DRAPER CITY,
STATE OF UTAH:

      Section 1.     Approval. The City of Draper approves this Resolution 22-50 to accept the
Easement from D.R. Horton.

        Section 2.        Severability Clause. If any part or provision of this Resolution is held invalid or
unenforceable, such invalidity or unenforceability shall not affect any other portion of this Resolution and
all provisions, clauses and words of this Resolution shall be severable.

        Section 3.       Effective Date. This Resolution shall become effective immediately upon the
effective date of Ordinance 1560.

PASSED AND ADOPTED BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF DRAPER CITY, STATE OF
UTAH, ON THE 6th DAY OF SEPTEMBER, 2022.

                                                          DRAPER CITY


                                                          _____________________________
                                                          Mayor Troy K. Walker

Resolution No. 22-50                                  1                             Deed of Conservation Easement
ATTEST:


_________________________________
Laura Oscarson, CMC, City Recorder


 VOTE TAKEN:                             YES     NO

 Councilmember Green

 Councilmember T. Lowery

 Councilmember F. Lowry

 Councilmember Roberts

 Councilmember Vawdrey

 Mayor Walker




Resolution No. 22-50                 2         Deed of Conservation Easement
                               EXHIBIT A

                       Deed of Conservation Easement




Resolution No. 22-50                 3                 Deed of Conservation Easement
When Recorded Return to:
D.R. Horton, Inc.
12351 South Gateway Park Place, Suite D-100
Draper, Utah 84020
Attn: Robert Hartshorn


                         DEED OF CONSERVATION EASEMENT

       THIS DEED OF CONSERVATION EASEMENT (this “Easement”), made as of this
____ day of ________________, 2022, by D.R. Horton, Inc, a Delaware corporation (“Grantor”),
whose address is 12351 South Gateway Park Place, Suite D-100, Draper, Utah 84020 and Draper
City (“Grantee”), whose address is 1020 East Pioneer Road, Draper, Utah 84020. Collectively
Grantor and Grantee are referred to as the “Parties.”

                                   EXHIBITS AS FOLLOWS

        Exhibit A: Property Description

        Exhibit B: Property Map

                                          WITNESSETH:

       WHEREAS, Grantor is the owner of several tracts of land, located in Northern Utah
County, State of Utah, known as the Skye – Lehi Addition, described in the attached Exhibit A
and located on the “Property Map” attached as Exhibit B which together constitute the
“Property”; and

        WHEREAS, Grantor intends to convey this Easement under the Utah Land Conservation
Easement Act, Utah Code Sections 57-18-2 through -7 (2018) and other applicable provisions of
the Internal Revenue Code and Utah statutory and common law; and

        WHEREAS, the Property possesses natural open space with wildlife habitat, educational
and recreational, values (collectively referred to as the “Conservation Values”) further identified
in the Baseline Documentation dated ______________ and incorporated herein by reference and
considered of great importance to Grantor, Grantee and the residents of the State of Utah. These
Conservation Values include but are not limited to the following:

       A.      Preservation of relatively natural habitat in accordance with 26 Code of Federal
Regulations (“CFR”) Section 1.170A-14(d)(3) appropriate for several priority wildlife species for
conservation in Utah, including mule deer (Odocoileus hemionus), which have been documented
on the Property;

       B.     Preservation of critical winter range for Elk (Cervus Canadensis), as the Utah
Division of Wildlife Resources has identified that the Property provides;




4871-6566-7612.v2
       C.     Preservation of habitat for numerous species of neotropical songbirds, other species
of songbirds, Ferriginous hawk, raptors, game and non-game species which benefit from the
abundance of foothill scrub oak (quercus Gambelli), savannah, and oak woodland on the Property;

        D.    Protection of scenic and aesthetic open space in accordance with CFR Section
1.170A-14(d)(4) through the protection of views of the Property which can be enjoyed from
several vantage points including the I-15 interstate corridor, adjacent Forest Service land, Lone
Peak Wilderness Area and numerous vantage points within Draper, Utah Valley, and the Salt Lake
Valley;

        E.     Protection of public recreation and education values in accordance with CFR
Section 1.170A-14(d)(2) as this Property has served as a place for multiple-use non-motorized
recreation and is accessible to the public for mountain biking, horseback riding, and hiking among
other passive recreational experiences; and

        F.     Preservation of the Property’s proximity to several permanently protected open
spaces including Corner Canyon Regional Park, Little Valley, Forest Service Land, the Salt Lake
County Flight Park and the Gene and Deane Wheadon Farmland Preserve; and

        WHEREAS, Grantor desires and intends that the Conservation Values be preserved by the
continuation, initiation, or introduction of activities on the Property that sustain said values,
including, but not limited to wildlife viewing, public recreation, education and ecological
interpretive use; and

      WHEREAS, Grantor, as the fee owner of the Property, holds the right to identify, conserve,
enhance, and protect in perpetuity the Conservation Values of the Property; and

        WHEREAS, Grantor values the undeveloped nature of the property and its passive
recreational value; and

        WHEREAS, the State of Utah has recognized the importance of both public and private
efforts to conserve and protect the state’s natural resources by the enactment of Utah Code
Sections 57-18-1 to 57-18-7; and

        WHEREAS, Grantee is a governmental entity qualified under Section 170(h) of the
Internal Revenue Code (the “IRC”), to receive qualified conservation contributions; and

        WHEREAS, Grantee has agreed to accept this Easement upon the condition and
understanding that the mutual intentions of Grantor and Grantee regarding the future preservation
of the Property as expressed in this Easement shall be forever honored and defended; and

        WHEREAS, the Parties desire that any interpretation of this Easement be construed to
further the conservation, protection, and enhancement of the Property’s Conservation Values;

        NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the recitals as set forth above and the covenants
terms and conditions and restrictions contained herein, which the Parties hereby agree constitute
adequate consideration for this agreement and pursuant to the laws of the State of Utah and in
particular Utah Code Sections 57-18-1, et seq. (2018), Grantor hereby irrevocably grants and

                                                2
4871-6566-7612.v2
conveys to Grantee and its successors in interest a perpetual conservation easement (this
“Easement”). This Easement is made over, under and across all of the Property to preserve and
protect the natural, ecological, watershed, habitat, riparian, educational, public access, open space,
scenic and other conservation values present on the Property. This Easement shall forever bind
Grantor and Grantor’s successors in ownership and use of the Property as well as Grantee and any
qualified successor of Grantee as identified in Section IX below. This Easement is granted in
perpetuity, and any mortgage lien or other encumbrance other than encumbrances of sight or record
existing at the time of this instrument’s signing, shall be subordinate to this Easement, to the rights
and intentions of the Parties to this Easement and to Grantee’s ability to enforce the protection of
the Conservation Values described herein. The scope of this Easement is set forth in this Easement.

                                     SECTION I - PURPOSE

        The purpose of this Easement is to enable the Property to remain forever open and
accessible to the public for recreation and scenic enjoyment, protecting in perpetuity its unique
natural, wildlife habitat, open space, educational, non-motorized public recreational, public access
and scenic Conservation Values, preventing any use of the Property that may materially impair or
interfere with its Conservation Values and that this Easement constitutes a public trust in the
perpetual protection of the Property.

                            SECTION II - RIGHTS OF GRANTEE

       Affirmative Rights of Grantee. Grantor hereby grants the following rights to Grantee,
which rights shall be in addition to and not in limitation of, all other rights and remedies available
to Grantee:

        A.      To prevent Grantor or third persons (whether or not claiming by, through, or under
Grantor) from conducting any activity on or use of the Property that is inconsistent with the
purpose of this Easement, and to require of Grantor or third persons the restoration of such areas
or features of the Property that may be damaged by any inconsistent activity or use;

       B.      Upon two (2) business days prior notice to Grantor, to enter upon the Property at
reasonable times and in a reasonable manner in order to monitor Grantor’s compliance with and
otherwise enforce the terms of this Easement, provided that in the absence of evidence which gives
Grantee a reasonable basis to believe there has been a violation of the provisions of this Easement
(which evidence shall be made available to Grantor), such entry shall not occur more often than
twice annually;

       C.      To enter onto the Property in the case of an emergency as determined by Grantee,
in which event Grantee shall notify Grantor prior to entering onto the Property, if possible, or as
soon thereafter as is reasonably practical;

        D.      To obtain injunctive and other equitable relief against any violations, including
restoration of the Property to the condition that existed prior to any such violation (it being agreed
that Grantee will have no adequate remedy at law); and




                                                  3
4871-6566-7612.v2
       E.     To enforce this Easement in the case of breaches by Grantor or by third persons
(whether or not claiming by, through, or under Grantor) by appropriate legal proceedings, after
providing Grantor with reasonable notice and a reasonable opportunity to cure.

                         SECTION III - PERMITTED USES AND PRACTICES

        A.          The Property is designated as a Backcountry Zone, as defined below.

       B.       The uses and practices described in this Section III may not be precluded or
prevented by this Easement, except the uses and practices in this Section III may be precluded if
Grantee, in its sole discretion, believes that a certain use or practice is occurring in a manner, or to
a degree that causes harm to the Conservation Values or when a use or practice threatens to
compromise the further defined Backcountry Zone as identified in the baseline documentation and
in the Draper City Open Space Master Plan dated April 19, 2016 and incorporated herein by
reference and is on file at the office of Grantor and Grantee.

        C.     The uses and practices may be precluded when this Easement requires Grantee’s
prior approval of an activity as provided in Section IV of this Easement or when such uses or
practices are conducted or allowed to take place in a manner which violates the terms of this
Easement, poses a serious threat of material damage to the Conservation Values protected by this
Easement, constitutes a prohibited use or practice as set forth in Section V of this Easement, or
fails to comply with economic or environmental feasibility studies determined as necessary by
Grantor.

        D.       While not an exhaustive recital of permitted uses and practices, and subject to the
limitations listed above, the following Backcountry Zone uses are consistent with this Easement.

       E.       The purpose of the “Backcountry Zone” is to allow for a connection with nature
with minimal facilities or services, allowing for ecological processes to dominate and uses that
encourage a sense of remoteness. This zone includes unpaved multiple use and user specific trails
for equestrian, mountain biking, hiking, trail running, and limited events.

        i.          Public Access and Education. The right to engage in passive wildlife viewing
                    and educational activities on the Property including the right to develop interpretive
                    trails provided these trails comply with the adopted Draper City trail plan or any
                    subsequent plans as adopted by the City.

        ii.         Recreation. The right to engage in non-motorized recreational activities including
                    but not limited to hiking, mountain biking, equestrian use and passive recreational
                    uses in compliance with Draper City Municipal Code 15-1-060.

        iii.        Trails. The right to construct new trails and maintain developed trails as identified
                    in the Draper Open Space Plan, provided that:

                    a.     All new trail construction is in accordance with an approved Draper City
                           public process;



                                                      4
4871-6566-7612.v2
                    b.     All new trails are constructed in accordance with Draper City best trail
                           construction practices for Backcountry intended type and use of trails;

                    c.     All trails remain pervious to the soil in the material used;

                    d.     New developed trails shall be incorporated periodically into baseline
                           documentation updates; and

                    e.     Grantor retains the right to close, reroute, restore and relocate existing trails
                           as may be necessary to ensure safe recreational use, avoid or eliminate
                           erosion, or for any other reason deemed appropriate by Grantor.

        iv.         Trail-related Structures. The right to construct trail improvements including, but
                    not limited to: bridging, boardwalks, culverts, separated street crossings, gates, or
                    other trail related improvements similar to those identified in the Draper Open
                    Space Plan.

        v.          Intentionally Omitted.

        vi.         Signs. The right to place a limited number of signs for regulatory purposes stating
                    the rules and regulations, safety or hazardous conditions or to identify trails or
                    interpretive sites on the Property.

        vii.        Maintenance and Restoration of the Native Ecosystem. Grantor may use
                    techniques and methods recognized as effective in restoring and maintaining the
                    native biological diversity of the Property including but not limited to invasive
                    weed suppression, restoring existing geo-cuts, erosion, and successional forest, oak
                    brush foothill and savannah complex restoration and passive restoration.

        viii.       Chemicals and Biological Controls. Grantor may use agrichemicals and
                    biological controls on the Property as necessary to control noxious weeds, invasive
                    insects, or mosquitoes. Chemical and biological controls may only be used in
                    accordance with all applicable laws, and in those amounts and with that frequency
                    of application constituting the minimum necessary to accomplish reasonable
                    noxious weed objectives. The use of such agents shall be conducted in a manner
                    to minimize any adverse effect on the natural values of the Property and to avoid
                    any impairment of the natural ecosystems and their processes.

        ix.         Problem or Diseased Animals. Grantor may use legal methods to control diseased
                    and problem animals as permitted by state and federal laws.

        x.          Fire Suppression. Grantor may remove brush and vegetation necessary to
                    minimize the risk of wildfire on the Property while maintaining to the extent
                    possible deadfall and brush considered valuable for wildlife. Potential means to
                    reduce or remove high risk fuel loads may include, but would not be limited to:
                    biological controls, including short-duration grazing; and non-mechanized methods
                    of removal of deadfall and slash and limited mechanized methods.


                                                      5
4871-6566-7612.v2
        xi.         Utilities. Existing Utilities may be maintained or relocated provided any Utility
                    relocation is first approved by Grantee and any disturbance to the property is
                    restored, as much as is practical to the original undisturbed nature of the Property.
                    Included in this Paragraph xi of Subsection B of Section III is the right to provide
                    utility connections deemed necessary and appropriate by Grantor provided that all
                    Draper City protocols and approvals are granted and provided that the minimum
                    disturbance is achieved even if in achieving that minimum disturbance requires
                    additional cost to a third party, private applicant.

                                  SECTION IV - PRIOR APPROVAL

        If any provision of this Easement requires Grantor to obtain Grantee’s approval prior to
performing any act or undertaking any enterprise, Grantor shall not perform that act or undertake
that enterprise until the notice and approval provisions of this Section have been fully satisfied.
Nothing in this Section shall in any way prohibit or limit the Grantee’s ability to obtain writs or
injunctive relief relating to any violation of this Easement.

A.      Grantor’s Written Notice.

        Prior to the commencement of any activity, use, or enterprise, which requires Grantee’s
approval, Grantor will first notify Grantee in writing of the proposed activity, use, or enterprise.
The notice must fully inform Grantee of all material aspects of the proposed activity, use or
enterprise. Grantor will send such notices to Grantee by registered or certified mail, return receipt
requested, addressed to Draper City, 1020 East Pioneer Road, Draper, Utah 84020, Attention:
_________________, or to such other address as Grantee may designate in writing.

B.      Grantee’s Response.

         Grantee shall have forty-five (45) days from the date such notice is received (as indicated
by the registered or certified return receipt) to review the proposed activity, use, or enterprise and
to notify Grantor of any objections it may have to the activity, use, or enterprise. The objections,
if any, shall be based upon Grantee’s opinion that the proposed activity, use or enterprise is likely
to cause material damage to the Property’s Conservation Values or is otherwise inconsistent with
the purpose and/or provisions of this Easement. If, in the Grantee’s judgment, the proposal
presented by Grantor can be modified to avoid material damage to the Conservation Values and
otherwise comply with the purpose and provisions of this Easement, then the response shall inform
Grantor how the proposed activity, use or enterprise may be modified to conform with this
Easement. Except as provided in Subsection C of this Section IV, Grantor may commence the
proposed activity, use, or enterprise only after it receives Grantee’s express written approval, and
only in the manner explicitly proposed by the Grantor and approved by Grantee. The Grantee will
send such response to Grantor by registered or certified mail, return receipt requested, addressed
to Grantor at Grantor’s address as set forth on page one, or to such other address as Grantor may
designate in writing.

C.      Grantee’s Failure to Respond.

       If Grantee fails to post its response to a proposal presented by Grantor within forty-five
(45) days after it receives the proposal by registered or certified mail, or within forty-five (45) days

                                                      6
4871-6566-7612.v2
after Grantee has received adequate information to evaluate the proposed activity, whichever is
later, then the proposed activity, use or enterprise shall be deemed consistent with the terms of this
Easement, and Grantee will have no further right to object to the activity, use or enterprise
described in the proposal. The forty-five (45) day period shall not begin to run for purposes of this
Subsection C until such time that Grantee has received adequate information from Grantor to
effectively evaluate the proposed activity. In the event the Grantee requires additional information
to evaluate the proposed activity, Grantee shall request the information from Grantor as soon as
practicable and in any case not later than forty-five (45) days after the receipt of the notice of the
proposed activity.

D.      Force Majeure.

         Grantor will not be obligated to send a notice to Grantee, and Grantee will not be entitled
to bring an action against Grantor for undertaking any prudent activity in a bona fide emergency
situation to prevent, abate, or mitigate the immediate threat of significant damage to the Property
resulting from causes beyond Grantor’s control, including fire, flood, storm, and earth movement.
Grantor will promptly notify Grantee of any injury to the Property caused by such events or the
efforts to prevent, abate, or mitigate any damage caused by such events.

                    SECTION V - PROHIBITED USES AND PRACTICES

       Any activity on or use of the Property inconsistent with the purpose of this Easement and
which is likely to cause material damage to the Conservation Values is expressly prohibited.
Grantor agrees that the following uses and practices, though not an exhaustive recital of
inconsistent uses and practices, are explicitly deemed inconsistent with the purposes of this
Easement, and shall be prohibited.

A.      Subdivision.

        Grantor does not have the right nor will any attempt be made to divide, subdivide, or take
any action, which creates an actual or de facto subdivision of the Property.

B.      Construction.

        Grantor will not construct any structures or facilities on the Property for use in human
habitation or industrial activities. Only structures permitted under Section III, which are in
accordance with a permitted use, are permitted.

C.      Wildlife Disturbance or Harassment.

        Harassment of wildlife on the Property by people, vehicles or domestic animals is
prohibited. The taking, removal, translocation or captivation of wildlife is prohibited, except as
allowed by law. Hunting is prohibited by ordinance in Draper City limits; however, nothing within
this provision shall restrict Draper City from working with the Division of Wildlife Resources to
determine healthy carrying capacities of big game species on the land and appropriate culling
methods deemed appropriate and in consideration of Draper City ordinances.



                                                  7
4871-6566-7612.v2
D.      Alteration of Watercourses and Topography.

       Grantor will not change, disturb, alter, excavate, or impair any watercourse or wetland or
the topography of the ground on the Property, except as expressly permitted by Section III of this
Easement. Grantor shall conform to all state and federal laws when constructing or altering
wetlands, watercourses and habitat.

E.      Non-native Species.

        Grantor will not introduce into the Property any non-native plant or animal species.

F.      Roads.

         No new roads over, through, or across the Property are permitted, except for the express
purpose of providing access to land formerly owned by Draper City which is subject to an existing
agreement entered into by the City for property near the bottom of Hog Hollow, provided however
that all City protocols and approvals are sought and obtained by the new landowner of that property
and further provided that the minimum disturbance is achieved even if in achieving that minimum
disturbance it requires additional cost to a third party, private applicant.

G.      Motorized Vehicles.

        Motorized vehicles are not permitted to access the Property, except for the following:

        i.          Emergency vehicles;

        ii.         Vehicles used in routine maintenance and management of the Property, provided
                    that these vehicles are in sound working order;

        iii.        Vehicles necessary to carry out a permitted use as identified under Section III of
                    this Easement, provided these vehicles are in sound working order; and

        iv.         Vehicles associated with a recorded right of access, provided these vehicles are in
                    sound working order.

H.      Agricultural Uses.

       Agricultural uses are prohibited on the Property, except as it may be consistent with
management practices for fire reduction or noxious weed management in conjunction with a
permitted use as identified in Section III.

I.      Dumping.

       Trash, debris, ashes, sawdust, and other non-compostable refuse may not be dumped or
otherwise disposed of on the Property.




                                                     8
4871-6566-7612.v2
J.      Utilities.

       New utilities and new utility corridors are prohibited, except as expressly permitted by
Section III of this Easement.

K.      Mineral Activities.

        Exploration or extraction of oil, gas, rock, gravel, sand, minerals, artifacts, or other
materials found in, on, or under the Property by Grantor is prohibited. No sub-surface exploration
or extraction of oil, gas, rock, gravel, sand, minerals, artifacts, or other materials (including the
lease, sale, or other disposition of the rights to such materials) are permitted by this Easement.

L.      Billboards.

        Grantor will not construct, maintain, lease, or erect any commercial signs, political signs,
or billboards on the Property. Not limiting the generality of the foregoing, a limited number of
signs for the purpose of protecting the Property and identifying ecological and heritage values on
the Property are allowed.

M.      Hazardous Waste.

        Grantor will not store, dump, or otherwise dispose of any toxic and/or hazardous material
on the Property. Neither this specific prohibition nor any other right granted in this Easement
makes Grantee an owner of the Property. Nor does it permit Grantee to control any use of the
Property by Grantor, which may result in the storage, dumping or disposal of hazardous or toxic
materials; provided, however, Grantee may bring an action to protect the Conservation Values of
the Property. This prohibition does not impose liability on Grantee, nor shall Grantee be construed
as having liability, as a “responsible party” under CERCLA or other similar state or federal
statutes.

                SECTION VI - BREACH, RESTORATION, AND REMEDIES

A.      Breach and Restoration.

        Where Grantee becomes aware of a violation or potential violation of any restriction
contained in this Easement, or becomes aware of any damage or potential damage to the
Conservation Values associated with the Property, whether precipitated by Grantor or by a third
party, Grantee may notify Grantor in writing of such violation, potential violation, damage or
potential damage. Upon Grantor’s receipt of such notice, Grantor agrees to immediately take
action to prevent or stop the activity, which potentially or actually violates the terms or intent of
this Easement.

        Grantor shall have thirty (30) days after receipt of such notice to undertake actions,
including restoration of the Property, that are reasonably calculated to swiftly correct the
conditions caused by such violation. If Grantor fails to take such corrective action, Grantee may
undertake appropriate action, including legal action, to effect such corrections. Grantor shall pay
the cost of such corrections, including Grantee’s expenses, court costs, and attorney’s fees.


                                                 9
4871-6566-7612.v2
B.      Injunctive and Other Relief.

         In the event Grantor undertakes or causes to be undertaken any activity on the Property
that requires Grantee’s prior approval and such approval is not obtained consistent with Section
IV of this Easement, or where Grantor undertakes or causes to be undertaken any activity in
violation or potential violation of the terms of this Easement; Grantee shall have the right to obtain
injunctive relief or writs from courts of competent jurisdiction to stop any unauthorized activities
and/or to force the restoration of that portion of the Property affected by such activity to a similar
or equivalent condition that existed prior to the unauthorized activity. Such restoration may
include, but is not limited to, restoring soils, replanting suitable native vegetation, and/or taking
such other action, as Grantee deems necessary to achieve restoration. In such case, the costs of
restoration and litigation, including reasonable attorney’s fees, shall be borne by Grantor or those
of its successors or assigns against whom a judgment is entered. In the event a judgment is entered
against Grantee in an effort to seek injunctive relief or restoration, then Grantor is not in violation
of this Easement.

C.      Actual or Threatened Non-Compliance

        Grantor acknowledges that actual or threatened instances of non-compliance under this
Easement constitute immediate and irreparable harm. Grantee is entitled to invoke the equitable
jurisdiction of any court to enforce this Easement.

D.      Cumulative Remedies.

      Grantee’s remedies set forth in this Easement are cumulative. Any, or all, of the remedies
may be invoked by Grantee if there is an actual or threatened violation of this Easement.

E.      Delay in Enforcement.

       A delay in enforcement shall not be construed as a waiver of Grantee’s right to enforce the
terms of this Easement.

                    SECTION VII - MAINTENANCE COSTS, TAXES & FEES

        Grantor retains all responsibilities and shall bear all costs and liabilities of any kind related
to the ownership, operation, upkeep and maintenance of the Property, including responsibility for
the control of noxious weeds in accordance with all applicable Utah laws. Grantor agrees to bear
all costs of operation, upkeep and maintenance of the Property, and agrees to reimburse Grantee
and its successors and assigns for all claims and obligations arising from the operation, upkeep,
and maintenance of the Property. Grantor shall pay any and all lawful taxes, assessments, fees,
and charges levied by competent authority.

                       SECTION VIII - INDEMNITY AND INSURANCE

       Grantor agrees to defend, indemnify and save harmless Grantee from and against any
damage, liability and loss occasioned by, growing out of, or arising or resulting from any act or
omission by Grantor, its agents or employees while on the Property.


                                                   10
4871-6566-7612.v2
                       SECTION IX - ASSIGNMENT OF EASEMENT

        Grantee may not transfer or assign its interest in this Easement upon the Property created
by this Easement except to a “qualified organization” (within the meaning of Section 170(h)(3) of
the IRC) which is organized or operated primarily or substantially for one or more of the
conservation purposes specified in Section 170(h)(4)(A) of the IRC. Any such qualified
organization shall agree to enforce the conservation purposes protected by this Easement. Grantee
may not transfer its rights under this Easement, in whole or in part, without the prior written
consent of Grantor, which consent shall not be unreasonably withheld. For the purpose of this
Section IX, Utah Open Lands Conservation Association is considered an acceptable transferee
organization by both Grantor and Grantee.

                               SECTION X - BASELINE DATA

         A Baseline Documentation inventory completed prior to the signing of this Easement
gathered baseline data and provides an accurate representation of the Property’s condition and
natural resources as of the date of the execution of this Easement in accordance with CFR Section
1.170A-14(g)(5)(l) and constitutes the Baseline Documentation and is incorporated herein by
reference. The Parties agree that subsequent updates to the Baseline Documentation will be signed
by both Grantee and Grantor and attached to the Baseline Documentation, of this Easement. The
Parties acknowledge that an inventory of baseline data relating to the Property has been completed
by competent professionals familiar with the Property. Copies of this inventory of baseline data
and subsequent updates to the Baseline Documentation are on file in Grantees’ and Grantor’s
offices.

       Notwithstanding the foregoing, should a future controversy arise over the biological and/or
physical condition of the Property, the Parties may use all relevant documents, surveys, reports
and other information to assist in resolving the controversy.

         SECTION XI - SUBSEQUENT SALE, EXCHANGE, OR INVOLUNTARY
                 CONVERSION; NOTICES; CO-ENFORCEMENT

        Grantor and Grantee agree that the conveyance of this Easement creates a property right
immediately vested in Grantee. Grantee’s property right in this Easement shall be based on the
condition and improvements on the Property at the time the Easement is established, and this
condition shall be documented as referred to in Section X, above. For purposes of this Section XI,
the property right shall be deemed to have a fair market value at least equal to the proportionate
value this Easement bears to the entire value of the Property as a whole at the time of its creation.
That proportionate value of Grantee’s property rights shall remain constant. Should a change in
conditions give rise to the extinguishment of this Easement, as provided in CFR Section 1.170A-
14(g)(6)(I) or any subsequent revision to that Section of the CFR, or extinguishment of a portion
of Grantee’s rights under this Easement, Grantee on a subsequent sale, exchange, conveyance, or
involuntary conversion of the Property or a portion of the Property shall be entitled to a portion of
the proceeds at least equal to such proportionate value of this Easement as established at the time
of its creation. All interpretations of Grantee’s property rights shall follow CFR Section 1.170
A-14.



                                                 11
4871-6566-7612.v2
         Whenever all or part of the Property is taken in exercise of eminent domain, or under claim
of rights of eminent domain, by public, corporate, or other authority so as to abrogate the
restrictions imposed by this Easement, Grantor shall and Grantee may join in appropriate actions
to recover the full value of the Property taken and all incidental or direct damages resulting from
such taking. All reasonable expenses incurred by Grantor or Grantee in any such action shall first
be reimbursed out of the recovered proceeds. The remainder of such proceeds shall be divided
between Grantor and Grantee in proportion to their interest in the Property, as provided in the first
paragraph of this Section XI.

         Grantor agrees that reference to this Easement will be made in any subsequent deed, or
other legal instrument, by means of which any interest in the Property (including any leasehold
interest) is conveyed, and that a copy of this Easement will be attached thereto. The separate
parcels described in Exhibit A shall be considered one Property and shall not be divided,
subdivided or otherwise separated. Grantor agrees to encumber title to the Property so that
ownership of the Property never vests in more than one entity at any single point in time, and this
restriction shall run with the Property in perpetuity. Grantee’s acceptance of this Easement is
contingent upon Grantor’s placement of such encumbrance on title of the Property. Grantor will
notify Grantee in writing of any conveyance of any interest by sending written notice to Grantee
as provided in Section IV, Subsection A. Grantor agrees to provide notice of this Easement to all
successors in interest, and to any potential purchasers or subsequent owners. In the event Grantor
elects to sell the Property, Grantor agrees to provide notice of this Easement in any sale or
solicitation materials or information. Any failure to comply with the terms of this Section XI shall
in no manner render this Easement or any provisions of this Easement unenforceable.

                               SECTION XII - AMENDMENTS

        If circumstances arise under which an amendment to or modification of this Easement
would be appropriate, Grantor and Grantee may by mutual written agreement jointly amend this
Easement; provided that no amendment shall be made that will adversely affect the qualification
of this Easement under Sections 170(h) of the IRC and the laws of the State of Utah. Any such
amendment shall be consistent with the purpose of this Easement, shall not affect its perpetual
duration, shall not permit residential, commercial or industrial development of the Property and
shall not permit any impairment of the significant Conservation Values of the Property. Any such
amendment shall be filed in the County Recorder’s office of Utah County, Utah. Nothing in this
Section XII shall require Grantor or Grantee to agree to any amendment or to consult or negotiate
regarding any amendment.

                     SECTION XIII - MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS

A.      Partial Invalidity.

       If any provision of this Easement, or the application of this Easement to any person or
circumstance, is found to be invalid, the remainder of the provisions of this Easement, and the
application of such provisions to persons or circumstances other than those to which it is found to
be invalid, shall not be affected thereby.




                                                 12
4871-6566-7612.v2
B.      Enforcement.

        Grantor intends that enforcement of the terms and provisions of this Easement shall be at
the discretion of Grantee, and that Grantee’s failure to exercise its rights under this Easement, in
the event of any breach by Grantor, shall not be considered a waiver of Grantee’s rights under this
Easement in the event of any subsequent breach.

C.      “Grantor” and “Grantee”.

       The term “Grantor”, as used in this Easement, and any pronouns used in place thereof
shall mean and include the above-named Grantor and its successors and assigns. The term
“Grantee,” as used in this Easement and any pronouns used in place thereof shall mean and
include the above-named Grantee and its successors and assigns.

D.      Titles.

      Section and Subsection titles and subtitles are for convenience only and shall not be
deemed to have legal effect.

E.      Liberal Construction.

        This Easement shall be liberally construed in favor of maintaining the Conservation Values
of the Property, and in accordance with Utah Code Sections 57-18-1 to 57-18-7. The Parties
acknowledge that each has reviewed and revised this Easement with the assistance of counsel, and
that no rule of construction resolving ambiguities against the drafting party shall be employed in
interpreting this Easement.

F.      Successors.

       This Easement is binding upon and will inure to the benefit of Grantor’s and Grantee’s
successors in interest and assigns. All subsequent owners of the Property are bound by all
provisions of this Easement to the same extent as Grantor.

G.      Governing Law.

        This Easement will be interpreted and construed in accordance with applicable Utah laws.

H.      Entire Agreement.

        This Easement sets forth the entire agreement of the Parties. It is intended to supersede all
prior discussions or understandings between the Parties pertaining to the subject matter of this
Easement.

I.      Compliance With Law.

       All uses and practices permitted by this Easement shall comply with all applicable state
and federal laws.



                                                 13
4871-6566-7612.v2
J.      Effective Date.

        The effective date of this Easement will be the date on which it has been signed by all of
the Parties.

K.      Notice Requirements.

       Grantor hereby acknowledges that Grantee, at least three days prior to the execution of this
Easement, discussed with it the types of conservation easements available, the legal effect of each
easement, and the advisability of consulting legal counsel concerning the possible legal and tax
implications associated with granting this Easement.

L.      Merger.

       The Parties intend that this Easement will not merge. It is the intent of the Parties that the
Easement shall never be extinguished, but this Easement shall remain in full force requiring
Grantor and Grantee and their successors in interest to perpetually comply with the terms and
conditions of this Easement, regardless of who holds title to the underlying fee interest of the
Property.

M.      Change of Conditions.

         The fact that any use of the Property expressly prohibited by this Easement or otherwise
determined inconsistent with the purpose of this Easement may become significantly more
valuable or economical than permitted uses, or that neighboring properties may in the future be
put entirely to uses inconsistent with this Easement, has been considered by Grantor in granting
this Easement. It is Grantor’s belief that any such changes will increase the public’s benefit and
interest in the continuation of this Easement, and it is the intent of both Grantor and Grantee that
any such changes shall not be considered circumstances sufficient to terminate this Easement, in
whole or in part. In addition, the inability to carry on any or all of the permitted uses, or the
unprofitability of doing so, shall not impair the validity of this Easement or be considered grounds
for its termination.

N.      Superiority of Easement.

        Any mortgage, trust deed, lien, judgment, or other financial interest executed that
encumbers or affects the Property, subject to the date that this Easement is recorded in the Office
of the Recorder of Utah County, shall be subordinate to this Easement and in no way shall enable
the holder of such interest or their successor(s) in interest to breach the terms of this Easement or
otherwise compromise the Conservation Values protected hereby.

O.      Notices.

       Any notice demand request consent, approval or communication shall be in writing and
served personally or sent by first class mail addressed as follows:




                                                 14
4871-6566-7612.v2
        Grantor:        D.R. Horton, Inc.
                        12351 South Gateway Park Place, Suite D-100
                        Draper, UT 84020
                        Attention: Robert Hartshorn

        Grantee:        Draper City
                        Parks and Recreation Department
                        1020 East Pioneer Road
                        Draper, UT 84020



                [Remainder of page left intentionally blank; signature pages follow]




                                                15
4871-6566-7612.v2
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Parties have executed this Easement of Conservation
Easement on the dates set forth below.

                                     D.R. HORTON, INC.,
                                     a Delaware corporation


                                     By:
                                     Title:
                                     Date:


STATE OF UTAH       )
                    :
COUNTY OF SALT LAKE )

      The foregoing instrument was acknowledged before me this _____ day of
________________, 2022 by _______________________ in such person’s capacity as the
_______________ of D.R. Horton, Inc., a Delaware corporation



                                     Notary Public




                                       16
4871-6566-7612.v2
                                         DRAPER CITY


                                         By:
                                         Title:
                                         Date:


Approved as to Form:



City Attorney



STATE OF UTAH       )
                    :
COUNTY OF SALT LAKE )

       On this ____ day of ________________, 2022, _______________________, who is
known to me to be the ___________________ of Draper City Corporation, and the person whose
name is subscribed to the instrument set forth above, personally appeared before me
____________________________, a Notary Public for the State of Utah, and acknowledged that
he executed the same on behalf of Draper City.

       IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I hereunto set my hand and affix my notary seal on the date
above written.



                                         Notary Public




                                           17
4871-6566-7612.v2
                                             EXHIBIT A

                              PROPERTY LEGAL DESCRIPTION



                                          CONSERVATION EASEMENT
        A portion of Sections 21 and 22, Township 4 South, Range 1 East, Salt Lake Base and Meridian,
described by survey as follows:
        Beginning at a point located N0°13’28”E along the Section Line 380.53 feet from the West 1/4
Corner of Section 21, Township 4 South, Range 1 East, Salt Lake Base and Meridian; thence N0°13’28”E
along the Section Line 965.99 feet to the south line of that Record of Survey prepared by Stantec
Engineering on file in the office of the Utah County Surveyor as Survey No. 12-154; thence N89°59’41”E
along said survey line 3420.94 feet to a found rebar and cap set in concrete monument; thence S0°00’19”E
along said survey line and in part along the west line of MAPLE HOLLOW 10, 11, & 13 AT SUNCREST
subdivision 715.98 feet; thence along the southerly line of MAPLE HOLLOW 10, 11, & 13 AT SUNCREST
subdivision the following two (2) courses: N89°59’41”E 2900.00 feet; thence N73°56’41”E 899.58 feet to
a found rebar and cap set in concrete monument, said point being the northwest corner of the Alpine
Joint Venture LTD property as defined by that Record of Survey prepared by Wilding Engineering on file
in the office of the Utah County Surveyor as Survey No. 16-134 (said point being monumented with a
found rebar and cap set in concrete); thence S19°19'38"E along said survey line 528.48 feet; thence
S89°59'41"W 7364.19 feet to the point of beginning.
                                                                                 Contains: ±100.98 Acres
                                                                                        ±4,398,668 Sq. Ft.




                                                  A-1
4871-6566-7612.v2
                      EXHIBIT B

                    PROPERTY MAP




                         B-1
4871-6566-7612.v2
CITY OF DRAPER




                                                                        NORTH
                                                MAPLE HOLLOW




                  CONSERVATION EASEMENT




                                DR HORTON INC




                                       TEXAS INSTRUMENTS INCORPORATED




                 CONSERVATION EASEMENT EXHIBIT
