                                                                        City of Draper, Utah

                                                                                June 7, 2022

       The City Council (the “Council”) of the City of Draper, Utah (the “Issuer”), met in
regular public session at the regular meeting place of the Council in Draper, Utah, on
Tuesday, June 7, 2022, at the hour of 7:00 p.m., with the following members of the Council
being present:

                       Troy Walker           Mayor
                       Mike Green            Councilmember
                       Tasha Lowery          Councilmember
                       Fred Lowry            Councilmember
                       Cal Roberts           Councilmember
                       Marsha Vawdrey        Councilmember

         Also present:

                       Laura Oscarson        City Recorder
                       David Dobbins         City Manager
                       Bob Wylie             Finance Director
                       Mike Barker           City Attorney

         Absent:



         After the meeting had been duly called to order and after other matters not pertinent
to this resolution had been discussed, a Certificate of Compliance with Open Meeting Law
with respect to this June 7, 2022 meeting was noted in the record, a copy of which is
attached hereto as Exhibit A.

        It was then noted that pursuant to the Local Government Bonding Act, Title 11,
Chapter 14, Utah Code Annotated 1953, as amended (the “Act”), a notice of public hearing
at 7:00 p.m. on June 7, 2022, with respect to the issuance of the Issuer’s Sales Tax Revenue
Bonds, Series 2022, in the principal amount of not to exceed $7,500,000 was published not
less than fourteen (14) days prior to the hearing, in the Deseret News, a newspaper of
general circulation in the Issuer. The public hearing was then opened to all members of
the public desiring to give input with respect to the issuance by the Issuer of its Sales Tax
Revenue Bonds, Series 2022.

         Following public comment, if any, the public hearing was closed.




4856-1433-1167, v. 1
       The following resolution was then introduced in written form, was fully discussed,
and pursuant to motion duly made by Councilmember ______________ and seconded by
Councilmember ________________, was adopted by the following vote:

                  AYE:




                  NAY:

         The resolution is as follows:




4856-1433-1167, v. 1                       2
                                RESOLUTION NO. 22-30

         A RESOLUTION OF THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF DRAPER,
         UTAH (THE “ISSUER”), DELEGATING TO CERTAIN OFFICERS OF
         THE ISSUER THE AUTHORITY TO APPROVE THE FINAL TERMS
         AND PROVISIONS IN CONNECTION WITH THE ISSUANCE AND
         SALE OF NOT MORE THAN $7,500,000 AGGREGATE PRINCIPAL
         AMOUNT OF SALES TAX REVENUE BONDS, SERIES 2022 BONDS
         OF THE ISSUER; AUTHORIZING AND APPROVING THE
         EXECUTION OF A SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURE, A BOND
         PURCHASE AGREEMENT, AND OTHER DOCUMENTS THAT MAY
         BE REQUIRED IN CONNECTION THEREWITH; APPROVING A
         PRELIMINARY OFFICIAL STATEMENT AND AN OFFICIAL
         STATEMENT; AUTHORIZING THE TAKING OF ALL OTHER
         ACTIONS NECESSARY TO THE CONSUMMATION OF THE
         TRANSACTIONS CONTEMPLATED BY THIS RESOLUTION; AND
         RELATED MATTERS.

       WHEREAS, the City Council (the “Council”) of the Issuer desires to (a) finance
the acquisition of land and all related improvements (collectively, the “Series 2022
Project”), (b) fund any required deposit to a debt service reserve fund, and (c) pay costs of
issuance with respect to the Series 2022 Bonds herein described; and

        WHEREAS, to accomplish the purposes set forth in the preceding paragraph, the
Issuer desires to issue its Sales Tax Revenue Bonds, Series 2022 (the “Series 2022 Bonds”)
(to be issued from time to time as one or more series and with such other series or title
designation(s) as may be determined by the Issuer), and in furtherance thereof, the Council
adopted a resolution on May 17, 2022 (the “Parameters Resolution”) approving the
issuance of the Series 2022 Bonds, the parameters for such bonds (the “Parameters”) and
authorizing the publication of a notice of public hearing and bonds to be issued; and

       WHEREAS, the Series 2022 Bonds are to be issued pursuant to (a) the Local
Government Bonding Act, Title 11, Chapter 14, Utah Code Annotated 1953, as amended
(the “Act”), (b) this Resolution and the Parameters Resolution, and (c) a General Indenture
of Trust previously entered into and a Supplemental Indenture of Trust (collectively, the
“Indenture”), each between the Issuer and U.S. Bank Trust Company, National
Association, as trustee (the “Trustee”) in substantially the forms presented to the meeting
at which this Resolution was adopted and which are attached hereto as Exhibit B; and

         WHEREAS, the Act provides that prior to issuing bonds, an issuing entity must (a)
give notice of its intent to issue such Series 2022 Bonds and (b) hold a public hearing to
receive input from the public with respect to (i) the issuance of the Series 2022 Bonds and
(ii) the potential economic impact that the improvement, facility or property for which the
Series 2022 Bonds pay all or part of the cost will have on the private sector and the Issuer
has heretofore published such a notice with respect to the Series 2022 Bonds and held the
hearing on the date hereof; and




4856-1433-1167, v. 1                         3
        WHEREAS, there has been presented to the Council at this meeting a form of a
bond purchase agreement (the “Bond Purchase Agreement”), in substantially the form
attached hereto as Exhibit C to be entered into between the Issuer and the underwriter or
the purchaser selected by the Issuer for the Series 2022 Bonds (the
“Underwriter/Purchaser”) in the event that the Series 2022 Bonds are not sold pursuant to
a public bid with an official notice of bond sale; and

          WHEREAS, in the event that the Designated Officers (defined below) determine
that it is in the best interests of the Issuer to publicly offer all or a portion of the Series 2022
Bonds, the Issuer desires to authorize the use and distribution of a Preliminary Official
Statement (the “Preliminary Official Statement”) in substantially the form attached hereto
as Exhibit D, and to approve a final Official Statement (the “Official Statement”) in
substantially the form as the Preliminary Official Statement, and other documents relating
thereto; and

        WHEREAS, in order to allow the Issuer (with the consultation and approval of
Lewis Young Robertson & Burningham, Inc., the Issuer’s Municipal Advisor) flexibility
in setting the pricing date of the Series 2022 Bonds to optimize debt service costs to the
Issuer, the Council desires to delegate to [any two of (i) members of the Council, (ii) the
City Manager or (iii) the Finance Director] (the “Designated Officers”), the authority to (a)
determine whether all or a portion of the Series 2022 Bonds should be sold pursuant to a
private placement or a public offering (including via a negotiated underwriting or public
bid); (b) approve the principal amounts, interest rates, terms, maturities, redemption
features, and purchase price at which the Series 2022 Bonds shall be sold; and (c) make
any changes with respect thereto from those terms which were before the Council at the
time of adoption of this Resolution, provided such terms do not exceed the Parameters set
forth in the Parameters Resolution.

       NOW, THEREFORE, it is hereby resolved by the City Council of the City of
Draper, Utah, as follows:

        Section 1.     For the purpose of (a) financing the Series 2022 Project; (b) funding
any required deposit to a debt service reserve fund and (c) paying costs of issuance of the
Series 2022 Bonds, the Issuer hereby authorizes the issuance of the Series 2022 Bonds
which shall be designated “City of Draper, Utah Sales Tax Revenue Bonds, Series 2022”
(to be issued from time to time as one or more series and with such other series or title
designation(s) as may be determined by the Issuer) within the Parameters set by the
Parameters Resolution (principal amount of not to exceed $7,500,000, maturing in not
more than twenty-one (21) years from their date, to be sold at a price not less than ninety-
five percent (95%) of the total principal amount thereof, and to bear interest at a rate or
rates of not to exceed 5.0% per annum, as shall be approved by the Designated Officers).

        Section 2.     The Designated Officers are hereby authorized to specify and agree
as to the method of sale (among competitive sale or negotiated sale (including a private
placement without the use of an Official Statement) the final principal amounts, terms,
discounts, maturities, interest rates, redemption features, and purchase price with respect
to the Series 2022 Bonds for and on behalf of the Issuer, provided that such terms are within
the Parameters. The selection of the form of sale via a private placement, negotiated


4856-1433-1167, v. 1                             4
underwriting, or competitive sale, the selection of the Underwriter/Purchaser and the
determination of the final terms and redemption provisions for the Series 2022 Bonds by
the Designated Officers shall be evidenced by the execution of (i) a Certificate of Award
if the Series 2022 Bonds are sold at a competitive sale (the “Certificate of Award”) in
substantially the form attached hereto as Exhibit E or (ii) the Bond Purchase Agreement if
the Series 2022 Bonds are sold at a private or negotiated underwriting sale in substantially
the form attached hereto as Exhibit C, by the Designated Officers. The form of the
Certificate of Award and of the Bond Purchase Agreement are hereby authorized, approved
and confirmed.

        Section 3.      The Supplemental Indenture in substantially the form presented to
this meeting and attached hereto within Exhibit B is hereby authorized, approved, and
confirmed. The Mayor (or in the Mayor’s absence, any acting Deputy Mayor, herein
collectively referred to as the “Mayor”) and the City Recorder are hereby authorized to
execute and deliver the Supplemental Indenture in substantially the form and with
substantially the content as presented at this meeting for and on behalf of the Issuer, with
final terms as may be established by the Designated Officers, within the Parameters set
forth herein, and with such alterations, changes or additions as may be necessary or as may
be authorized by Section 5 hereof.

       Section 4.     Should the Designated Officers determine to have the Series 2022
Bonds underwritten, the Issuer hereby authorizes the utilization of the Preliminary Official
Statement (including an official notice of sale, if applicable), in the substantially the form
attached hereto as Exhibit D, in the marketing of the Series 2022 Bonds and hereby
approves an Official Statement in substantially the same form as the Preliminary Official
Statement.

        Section 5.     The Designated Officers and any other appropriate officials of the
Issuer are authorized to make any alterations, changes or additions to the Indenture, the
Series 2022 Bonds, the Bond Purchase Agreement, the Preliminary Official Statement, the
Official Statement, the Certificate of Award, or any other document herein authorized and
approved which may be necessary to conform the same to the final terms of the Series 2022
Bonds (within the Parameters), to conform to any applicable bond insurance or reserve
instrument or to remove the same, to correct errors or omissions therein, to complete the
same, to remove ambiguities therefrom, or to conform the same to other provisions of said
instruments, to the provisions of this Resolution, the Parameters Resolution or any
resolution adopted by the Council or the provisions of the laws of the State of Utah or the
United States.

        Section 6.      The form, terms, and provisions of the Series 2022 Bonds and the
provisions for the signatures, authentication, payment, registration, transfer, exchange,
redemption, and number shall be as set forth in the Indenture. The Mayor and the City
Recorder are hereby authorized and directed to execute and seal the Series 2022 Bonds and
to deliver said Series 2022 Bonds to the Trustee for authentication. The signatures of the
Mayor and the City Recorder may be by facsimile or manual execution.

        Section 7.    The Designated Officers or other appropriate officials of the Issuer
are hereby authorized and directed to execute and deliver to the Trustee the written order


4856-1433-1167, v. 1                          5
of the Issuer for authentication and delivery of the Series 2022 Bonds in accordance with
the provisions of the Indenture.

        Section 8.       Upon their issuance, the Series 2022 Bonds will constitute special
limited obligations of the Issuer payable solely from and to the extent of the sources set
forth in the Series 2022 Bonds and the Indenture. No provision of this Resolution, the
Indenture, the Series 2022 Bonds, or any other instrument, shall be construed as creating a
general obligation of the Issuer, or of creating a general obligation of the State of Utah or
any political subdivision thereof, or as incurring or creating a charge upon the general credit
of the Issuer or its ad valorem taxing powers.

        Section 9.     The Designated Officers or other appropriate officials of the Issuer,
and each of them, are hereby authorized and directed to execute and deliver for and on
behalf of the Issuer any or all additional certificates, documents and other papers
(including, without limitation, any tax compliance policies and reserve instrument guaranty
agreements permitted by the Indenture) and to perform all other acts they may deem
necessary or appropriate in order to implement and carry out the matters authorized in this
Resolution and the documents authorized and approved herein.

       Section 10. After the Series 2022 Bonds are delivered by the Trustee to the
Underwriter/Purchaser, and upon receipt of payment therefor, this Resolution shall be and
remain irrepealable until the principal of, premium, if any, and interest on the Series 2022
Bonds are deemed to have been duly discharged in accordance with the terms and
provisions of the Indenture.

       Section 11. All resolutions or parts thereof in conflict herewith are, to the extent
of such conflict, hereby repealed and this Resolution shall be in full force and effect
immediately upon its approval and adoption.




4856-1433-1167, v. 1                          6
         APPROVED AND ADOPTED this June 7, 2022.


(SEAL)

                                      By:_________________________________
                                                     Mayor


ATTEST:



By:
                   City Recorder




4856-1433-1167, v. 1                 7
(Other business not pertinent to the foregoing appears in the minutes of the meeting.)

         Upon the conclusion of all business on the Agenda, the meeting was adjourned.


(SEAL)

                                             By:_________________________________
                                                            Mayor


ATTEST:



By:
                   City Recorder




4856-1433-1167, v. 1                        8
STATE OF UTAH                          )
                                       : ss.
COUNTY OF SALT LAKE                    )

        I, Laura Oscarson, the duly appointed and qualified City Recorder of the City of
Draper, Utah (the “City”), do hereby certify according to the records of the City Council
of the City (the “City Council”) in my official possession that the foregoing constitutes a
true and correct excerpt of the minutes of the meeting of the City Council held on June 7,
2022, including a public hearing and a resolution (the “Resolution”) adopted at said
meeting as said minutes and Resolution are officially of record in my possession.

        I further certify that the Resolution, with all exhibits attached, was deposited in my
office on June 7, 2022.

       IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto subscribed my signature and impressed
hereon the official seal of said City, this June 7, 2022.


(SEAL)

                                               By:
                                                               City Recorder




4856-1433-1167, v. 1                           9
                                         EXHIBIT A

                         CERTIFICATE OF COMPLIANCE WITH
                                OPEN MEETING LAW

        I, Laura Oscarson, the undersigned City Recorder of the City of Draper, Utah (the
“City”), do hereby certify, according to the records of the City in my official possession,
and upon my own knowledge and belief, that in accordance with the requirements of
Section 52-4-202, Utah Code Annotated, 1953, as amended, I gave not less than twenty-
four (24) hours public notice of the agenda, date, time and place of the June 7, 2022, public
meeting held by the City Council of the City (the “City Council”) as follows:

                (a)      By causing a Notice, in the form attached hereto as Schedule 1, to
         be posted at the principal offices of the City at least twenty-four (24) hours prior to
         the convening of the meeting, said Notice having continuously remained so posted
         and available for public inspection until the completion of the meeting;

                  (b)    By causing a copy of such Notice, in the form attached hereto as
         Schedule 1, to be posted on the Utah Public Notice Website (http://pmn.utah.gov)
         at least twenty-four (24) hours prior to the convening of the meeting; and

                 (c)     By causing a copy of such Notice, in the form attached hereto as
         Schedule 1, to be delivered to the Deseret News at least twenty-four (24) hours
         prior to the convening of the meeting pursuant to its subscription to the Utah Public
         Notice Website (http://pmn.utah.gov).

        In addition, the Notice of 2022 Annual Meeting Schedule for the City Council
(attached hereto as Schedule 2) was given specifying the date, time, and place of the regular
meetings of the City Council to be held during the year, by causing said Notice to be (a)
posted on _______________ at the principal office of the City Council, (b) published on
the Utah Public Notice Website (http://pmn.utah.gov) during the current calendar year and
(c) provided to at least one newspaper of general circulation within the City pursuant to its
subscription to the Utah Public Notice Website (http://pmn.utah.gov).

        IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto subscribed my official signature this
June 7, 2022.


(SEAL)

                                                By:
                                                                City Recorder




4856-1433-1167, v. 1                          A-1
                          SCHEDULE 1

                       NOTICE OF MEETING




4856-1433-1167, v. 1          A-2
                             SCHEDULE 2

                       ANNUAL MEETING SCHEDULE




4856-1433-1167, v. 1             A-3
                           EXHIBIT B

                       FORM OF INDENTURE




4856-1433-1167, v. 1          B-1
                                  EXHIBIT C

                       FORM OF BOND PURCHASE AGREEMENT




4856-1433-1167, v. 1                 C-1
                                     EXHIBIT D

                       FORM OF PRELIMINARY OFFICIAL STATEMENT




4856-1433-1167, v. 1                    D-1
                            EXHIBIT E

                       CERTIFICATE OF AWARD




4856-1433-1167, v. 1           E-1
