                               Development Review Committee
                                    1020 East Pioneer Road
                                      Draper, Utah 84020



                                       STAFF REPORT
                                         April 5, 2022

To:                  Draper City Planning Commission
                     Business Date: April 14, 2022

From:                Development Review Committee

Prepared By:         Maryann Pickering, AICP, Planner III
                     Planning Division
                     Community Development Department
                     (801) 576-6391 or maryann.pickering@draperutah.gov

Re:     Norman Family Flag Lot – Land Use and Zoning Map Amendments
        Application Nos.: TEXTMAP-030-2022 (Land Use) and TEXTMAP-031-2022 (Zoning)
        Applicant:        Jeff Norman and Carla Hansen
        Project Location: Approximately 192 E. 13560 South
        Current Zoning: RA2 (Residential Agricultural, 20,000 square foot lot minimum)
        Acreage:          0.84 acres (approximately 36,560 square feet)
        Request:          Amend the land use designation from Residential Low/Medium
                          Density to Residential Medium Density and rezone the property
                          from RA2 (Residential Agricultural, 20,000 square foot minimum)
                          to R3 (Single Family Residential, 13,000 square foot lot minimum).



BACKGROUND AND SUMMARY
This application is a request for approval of Land Use and Zoning Map Amendments for
approximately 0.84 acres located on the south side of 13560 South and to the east of 150
East (Exhibit C). The property is currently zoned RA2. The applicant is requesting a Land
Use Map Amendment from Residential Low/Medium Density to Residential Medium
Density and a Zoning Map Amendment from RA2 to R3. The subject site includes a
residence that was built in 1995. The parcel has never been subdivided and is not part of a
subdivision.


Norman Family Flag Lot LUMA and ZMA            Apps. # TEXTMAP-030-2022 and TEXTMAP-031-2022
Land Use and Zoning Map Amendments            1
ANALYSIS

General Plan and Zoning. The Land Use Map of the General Plan calls for the Residential
Low/Medium Density land use designation for the subject property (Exhibit D). This
category is characterized as follows:




The property has been assigned the RA2 zoning classification, supporting approximately
two dwelling units per acre (Exhibit E). According to Draper City Municipal Code (DCMC)
Section 9-8-020 the purpose of the RA2 zone is to “foster low density development with
little impact on its surroundings and municipal services; to generally preserve the character
of the City’s semi-rural areas; and to promote and preserve conditions favorable to large-
lot family life, including the keeping of limited numbers of animals and fowl. This zone is
intended to promote a combination of retail and service facilities which, in character and

Norman Family Flag Lot LUMA and ZMA           Apps. # TEXTMAP-030-2022 and TEXTMAP-031-2022
Land Use and Zoning Map Amendments            2
scale, meet day to day needs of nearby residents.” The RA2 zoning abuts the subject
property on the north and east. The RA1 (Residential Agricultural, 40,000 square foot lot
minimum zone) abuts on the south side. To the west is the RM2 (Multiple Family
Residential) zone.

The applicant is proposing to change the land use designation to the Residential Medium
Density designation. This category is characterized as follows:




The applicant is proposing to change the zoning designation to the R3 zoning classification,
supporting approximately three dwelling unit per acre. According to DCMC Section 9-8-020
the purpose of the R3 zone is to “permit medium density residential development without
special mitigation requirements. This zone is intended to provide incentives to foster
residential development with little impact on its surroundings and on municipal services,
and to generally preserve the semirural character called for in the density element of the
general plan.”

The R3 zone allows for single-family homes on lots with at least 13,000 square feet in size.

Norman Family Flag Lot LUMA and ZMA            Apps. # TEXTMAP-030-2022 and TEXTMAP-031-2022
Land Use and Zoning Map Amendments            3
Should the rezone be approved, the applicants plan to subdivide the property and create a
flag lot at the southern end of the parcel. The access would need to be on the east side of
the residence as there would be no room on the west side. The applicant has conceptually
designed the subdivision and will need to submit a minor subdivision application and both
lots will need to meet all applicable codes and standards.

Criteria For Approval.
Zoning Map Amendment
A text and map amendment is a matter committed to the legislative discretion of the City
Council and is not controlled by any one standard. However, in making a recommendation
to the City Council, the Planning Commission should consider the following factors in
Section 9-5-060(E) of the DCMC:

1.      Map Amendments:
        a.   Whether the proposed amendment is consistent with goals, objectives and
             policies of the city's general plan;
        b.   Whether the proposed amendment is harmonious with the overall character
             of existing development in the vicinity of the subject property;
        c.   Whether the proposed amendment is consistent with the standards of any
             applicable overlay zone;
        d.   The extent to which the proposed amendment may adversely affect adjacent
             property; and
        e.   The adequacy of facilities and services intended to serve the subject
             property, including, but not limited to, roadways, parks and recreation
             facilities, police and fire protection, schools, stormwater drainage systems,
             water supplies, and wastewater and refuse collection.

Land Use Map Amendments
The land use map amendment request falls under DCMC Section 9-2-020(F) because the
Land Use Map is part of Draper City’s General Plan. That section lists the following criteria
for a General Plan amendment as:

        “Plan Amendment: All plan amendments shall be in accordance with Utah Code
        Annotated 10-9a-404, as amended and, unless requested by the city's legislative
        body, shall follow the procedures as outlined in Draper City Municipal Code 9-5-
        060(D).” That section is noted as follows:

        D.      Procedure: Zoning text and map amendments shall be considered and
                processed as provided in this subsection:
                1.    A complete application shall be submitted to the office of the zoning
                      administrator in a form established by the administrator along with
                      any fee established by the city’s schedule of fees. The application

Norman Family Flag Lot LUMA and ZMA            Apps. # TEXTMAP-030-2022 and TEXTMAP-031-2022
Land Use and Zoning Map Amendments             4
                         shall include at least the following information:
                         a.      The name, address and telephone number of the applicant
                                 and the applicant’s agent, if any.
                         b.      The name and address of every person or company the
                                 applicant represents.
                         c.      The requested amendment and reasons supporting the
                                 request.
                         d.      If the proposed amendment requires a change in the zoning
                                 map, the application shall include:
                                 (1)      An accurate property map showing present and
                                          proposed zoning classifications;
                                 (2)      All abutting properties showing present zoning
                                          classifications; and
                                 (3)      An accurate legal description and an approximate
                                          common address of the area proposed to be rezoned.
                         e.      If the proposed amendment requires a change in the text of
                                 this title, the application shall include chapter and section
                                 references and a draft of the proposed text.
                2.       After the application is determined to be complete, the zoning
                         administrator shall prepare a staff report evaluating the application.
                3.       The planning commission shall schedule and hold a public hearing on
                         the application as provided in sections 9-5-040 and 9-5-045 of this
                         chapter. Following the public meeting, the planning commission shall
                         recommend approval, approval with modifications, or denial of the
                         proposed amendment and shall submit its recommendation to the
                         city council for review and decision.
                4.       The city council shall schedule and hold a public hearing on the
                         application as provided in sections 9-5-040 and 9-5-045 of this
                         chapter. Following the public hearing, the city council may approve,
                         approve with modifications, or deny the proposed amendment.


REVIEWS
Planning Division Review. The Draper City Planning Division has completed their review of
the land use and zoning map amendments submission. Comments from this division, if
any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Engineering and Public Works Divisions Review. The Draper City Engineering and Public
Works Divisions have completed their review of the land use and zoning map amendments
submission. Comments from this division, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.




Norman Family Flag Lot LUMA and ZMA              Apps. # TEXTMAP-030-2022 and TEXTMAP-031-2022
Land Use and Zoning Map Amendments               5
Building Division Review. The Draper City Building Division has completed their review of
the land use and zoning map amendments submission. Comments from this division, if
any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Fire Division Review. The Draper City Fire Marshal has completed his review of the land use
and zoning map amendments submission. Comments from this division, if any, can be
found in Exhibit A

Legal Division Review. The Draper City Attorney has completed his review of the land use
and zoning map amendments submission. Comments from this division, if any, can be
found in Exhibit A

Noticing. Notice has been properly issued in the manner outlined in the City and State
Codes.



STAFF RECOMMENDATION
Staff recommends that the Planning Commission review the request, receive public
comment, and make a decision based on the findings listed below and the criteria for
approval, or denial, as listed within the staff report.

The findings for approval as are follows:

1.       The proposed amendment is consistent with goals, objectives and policies of the
         city’s general plan.
2.       The proposed amendment is harmonious with the overall character of existing
         development in the vicinity of the subject property.
3.       The proposed amendment is consistent with the standards of any applicable overlay
         zone.
4.       The proposed amendment will not adversely affect adjacent property.
5.       The facilities and services intended to serve the subject property are adequate,
         including, but not limited to, roadways, parks and recreation facilities, police and fire
         protection, schools, stormwater drainage systems, water supplies, and wastewater
         and refuse collection.
6.       The land use map amendment complies with standards found in DCMC Section 9-2-
         020(F), DCMC Section 9-5-060(D), and Utah Code Annotated 10-9a-404.

The findings for denial as are follows:

1.       The proposed amendment is not consistent with goals, objectives and policies of the
         city's general plan.
2.       The proposed amendment is not harmonious with the overall character of existing
         development in the vicinity of the subject property.

Norman Family Flag Lot LUMA and ZMA              Apps. # TEXTMAP-030-2022 and TEXTMAP-031-2022
Land Use and Zoning Map Amendments               6
3.      The proposed amendment is not consistent with the standards of any applicable
        overlay zone.
4.      The proposed amendment will adversely affect adjacent property.
5.      The facilities and services intended to serve the subject property are not adequate,
        including, but not limited to, roadways, parks and recreation facilities, police and fire
        protection, schools, stormwater drainage systems, water supplies, and wastewater
        and refuse collection.
6.      The land use map amendment does not comply with standards found in DCMC
        Section 9-2-020(F), DCMC Section 9-5-060(D), and Utah Code Annotated 10-9a-404.



MODEL MOTIONS
Land Use Map Amendment
Sample Motion for Approval – I move that we forward a positive recommendation to the
City Council for the land use map amendment, as requested by Jeff Norman and Carla
Hansen for the Norman Family Flag Lot ZUMA and LMA, application TEXTMAP-031-2022,
based on the findings and subject to the conditions listed in the staff report dated April 5,
2022.

Sample Motion for Modified Approval – I move that we forward a positive recommendation
to the City Council for the land use map amendment, as requested by Jeff Norman and
Carla Hansen for the Norman Family Flag Lot ZUMA and LMA, application TEXTMAP-031-
2022, based on the findings and subject to the conditions listed in the staff report dated
April 5, 2022 and as modified by the findings and conditions below:

        1.      List any additional findings and conditions . . .

Sample Motion for Denial – I move that we forward a negative recommendation to the City
Council for the land use map amendment, as requested by Jeff Norman and Carla Hansen
for the Norman Family Flag Lot ZUMA and LMA, application TEXTMAP-031-2022, based on
the findings and subject to the conditions listed in the staff report dated April 5, 2022.

Zoning Map Amendment
Sample Motion for Approval – I move that we forward a positive recommendation to the
City Council for the zoning map amendment, as requested by Jeff Norman and Carla
Hansen for the Norman Family Flag Lot ZUMA and LMA, application TEXTMAP-030-2022,
based on the findings and subject to the conditions listed in the staff report dated April 5,
2022.

Sample Motion for Modified Approval – I move that we forward a positive recommendation
to the City Council for the Zoning Map Amendment, as requested by Jeff Norman and Carla
Hansen for the Norman Family Flag Lot ZUMA and LMA, application TEXTMAP-030-2022,


Norman Family Flag Lot LUMA and ZMA               Apps. # TEXTMAP-030-2022 and TEXTMAP-031-2022
Land Use and Zoning Map Amendments               7
based on the findings and subject to the conditions listed in the staff report dated April 5,
2022 and as modified by the findings and conditions below:

        1.      List any additional findings and conditions . . .

Sample Motion for Denial – I move that we forward a negative recommendation to the City
Council for the as requested by Jeff Norman and Carla Hansen for the Norman Family Flag
Lot ZUMA and LMA, application TEXTMAP-030-2022, based on the findings and subject to
the conditions listed in the staff report dated April 5, 2022.




Norman Family Flag Lot LUMA and ZMA               Apps. # TEXTMAP-030-2022 and TEXTMAP-031-2022
Land Use and Zoning Map Amendments               8
               DEVELOPMENT REVIEW COMMITTEE ACKNOWLEDGEMENT

We, the undersigned, as duly appointed members of the Draper City Development Review
Committee, do acknowledge that the application which provides the subject for this staff
report has been reviewed by the Committee and has been found to be appropriate for
review by the Draper City Planning Commission and/or City Council.



                   Digitally signed by Brien Maxfield                                      Digitally signed by Keith Collier

Brien Maxfield
                   DN: cn=Brien Maxfield, o=Draper City, ou=PW -                           DN: C=US, E=keith.collier@draperutah.gov,
                   Engineering,
                   email=brien.maxfield@draperutah.gov, c=US
                   Date: 2022.04.05 16:02:35 -06'00'
                                                                   Keith Collier           O=Draper City, OU=Building Official, CN=Keith
                                                                                           Collier
                                                                                           Date: 2022.04.07 09:12:22-06'00'



Draper City Public Works Division                                  Draper City Building Division

                                                                                            Digitally signed by Jennifer Jastremsky
                      Digitally signed by Don Buckley                                       DN: C=US,
                                                                                            E=jennifer.jastremsky@draperutah.gov,
                      DN: C=US, E=don.buckley@draper.ut.us,
                                                                   Jennifer Jastremsky
Don Buckley           O=Draper City Fire Department, OU=Fire
                      Marshal, CN=Don Buckley
                      Date: 2022.04.05 14:44:53-06'00'
                                                                                            O=Planning Division, OU=Draper City,
                                                                                            CN=Jennifer Jastremsky
                                                                                            Date: 2022.04.05 15:49:20-06'00'


Draper City Fire Department                                        Draper City Planning Division


                                                                                   Digitally signed by Mike Barker
                                                                   Mike Barker     Date: 2022.04.05 14:38:25
                                                                                   -06'00'


                                                                   Draper City Legal Counsel
                                 DEPARTMENT REVIEWS

REVIEWS ARE NOT MEANT TO BE AN ALL INCLUSIVE LIST OF POSSIBLE COMMENTS OR
CONDITIONS.

Planning Division Review.
No additional comments.

Building Division Review.
No additional comments.

Engineering and Public Works Divisions Review.
1.     The adequacy of facilities and services intended to serve the subject property,
       including but not limited to roadways, parks and recreation facilities, police and fire
       protection, schools, storm water drainage systems, water supplies, and waste water
       and refuse collection;
       Other than noted below, we are not aware of any inadequacies of the facilities
       intended to serve this property.
       a.     The increase in density from one residential unit per 0.84 acres to two units
              per 0.84 acres constitutes a minor increase in the amount of traffic to and
              from the subject area based on the subject parcel. One single family
              residential structure and associated agricultural uses constitutes up to nine
              daily trips and two peak hour trips, based on industry standard vehicle trip
              tables. In the future two or so vehicles could be added to the surrounding
              streets if the parcel were to be subdivided. The anticipated increase in traffic
              is well below the 100 peak hour trips that would require a Traffic Impact
              Study.
       b.     Connectivity with the subject parcel to a public right-of-way is on 13560
              South, a local residential street. Access locations will be required to meet
              Draper City Standards as outlined in our Master Transportation Plan.
       c.     There are existing storm drain facilities available to the subject area, located
              along 150 East. Provisions for onsite storm drainage will need to be
              addressed with any subdivision or site plan application, and shall comply
              with the provisions of the development requirements within the Draper City
              Municipal Code.
       d.     Sanitary sewer facilities will be provided by South Valley Sewer District. Any
              subdivision application will require a commitment to serve from the Sewer
              District that facilities are adequate to provide service for the proposed uses.
       e.     Drinking water facilities will be provided by WaterPro. Any subdivision
              application will require a commitment to serve from the WaterPro that
              facilities are adequate to provide service for the proposed uses.
Fire Division Review.
1.     Fire Department Access is required. An unobstructed minimum road width of 26’
       exclusive of the shoulders and a minimum height of 13’6” shall be required. The
       road must be designed and maintained to support the imposed loads of emergency
       apparatus. The surface shall be able to provide all weather driving capabilities. The
       road shall have an inside turning radius of 28’. There shall be a maximum grade of
       10%. Grades may be checked prior to building permits being issued.
       D103.6.1 Roads 20 to 26 feet in width. Fire lane signs as specified in Section D103.6
       shall be posted on both sides of fire apparatus access roads that are 20 to 26 feet
       wide (6096to 7925 mm).
       -      This section requires that parking be prohibited on both sides of narrower
              fire apparatus access roads. Twenty feet (6096 mm) is the appropriate width
              needed for two average-size fire trucks to pass one another. If that width is
              reduced by parking even on one side, it will be potentially difficult for a fire
              department to undertake emergency operations in that area.
       D103.6.2 Roads more than 26 feet in width. Fire lane signs as specified in Section
       D103.6 shall be posted on one side of fire apparatus access roads more than 26 feet
       wide (7925 mm) and less than 32 feet wide (9754 mm).
       -      Because this width is more than sufficient for maneuvering at least two fire
              department vehicles by one another, parking would be allowed on one side.
2.     D103.6 Signs. Where required by the fire code official, fire apparatus access roads
       shall be marked with permanent NO PARKING—FIRE LANE signs complying with
       Figure D103.6. Signs shall have a minimum dimension of 12” (305 mm) wide by 18”
       (457 mm) high and have red letters on a white reflective background. Signs shall be,
       posted on one or both sides of the fire apparatus road as required by Section
       D103.6.1 or D103.6.2.




3.     Fire Department Approved Turn Around Required. Access roads over 150’ long shall
       require an approved turn around. Below is a diagram of approved fire department
       turn arounds.
4.     Fire Hydrant(s) may be required. Hydrants may be required for this project. They
       shall be protected with bollards if susceptible to vehicle damage. Fire Flow of 2,000
       GPM @ 20 p.s.i. residual pressure, a minimum of one fire hydrant may be required
       for this project to deliver the calculated fire flow.
5.     Hydrants and Site Access. All hydrants and a form of acceptable temporary Fire
       Department Access to the site shall be installed and APPROVED by the Fire
       Department prior to the issuance of any Building Permits. If at any time during the
       building phase any of the hydrants or temporary Fire Department Access becomes
       non-compliant any and all permits could be revoked.
6.     No combustible construction shall be allowed prior to hydrant installation and
       testing by water purveyor. All hydrants must be operational prior to any
       combustible elements being received or delivered on building site.
7.     Visible Addressing Required. New and existing buildings shall have approved
       address numbers plainly legible and visible from the street fronting the property.
       These numbers shall contrast with their background.
8.     Street Signs required and are to be posted and legible prior to building permits
       being issued. All lots to have lot number or address posted and legible.
9.     Plan approval or review shall not, be construed to relieve from or lessen the
       responsibility of any person designing, owning, operating or controlling any building.
       Damages to persons or property caused by defects, fire, improper installation, or
       other emergency conditions that occur in or on the building property shall not hold
       the Draper City Fire Department as assuming any liability.

Legal Division Review.
No additional comments provided.
                                EXHIBIT B
                            LEGAL DESCRIPTION

BEGINNING AT A POINT WHICH IS SOUTH 1033.50 FEET AND WEST 816.08 FEET FROM
THE NORTH QUARTER CORNER OF SECTION 6, TOWNSHIP 4 SOUTH, RANGE 1 EAST, SALT
LAKE BASE AND MERIDIAN; AND RUNNING THENCE SOUTH 286.50 FEET; THENCE WEST
160.42 FEET; THENCE NORTH 250.50 FEET; THENCE EAST 80.00 FEET; THENCE NORTH
30.00 FEET; THENCE EAST 80.42 FEET TO THE POINT OF BEGINNING. LESS AND
EXCEPTING PROPERTY RELINQUISHED TO UTAH DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION AS
STATED IN THAT FINAL ORDER OF CONDEMNATION RECORDED OCTOBER 4, 1999, IN
BOOK 8313, AT PAGE 6395, AS ENTRY NO 7480751, COUNTY OF SALT LAKE, STATE OF
UTAH.
 EXHIBIT C
AERIAL MAP
  EXHIBIT D
LAND USE MAP
 EXHIBIT E
ZONING MAP
      EXHIBIT F
APPLICANT’S REQUEST
Questions from Page 5

General Plan Land Use Map Amendment
1. What is the requested land use designation?
2. Please explain the reason for the request and the justification for approval.
3. How is the requested land use designation harmonious with the overall character of
existing development in the vicinity of the subject property? Explain?
4. Is the proposed land use designation consistent with the goals, objectives, and policies of the City’s General
Plan? Explain.




    1. The requested land use designation is for residential purposes.
    2. The reason for the request is to comply with Draper City requirements allowing the
       parcel to be divided into two separate lots. The existing home would be on the front
       portion and the flag lot on the rear portion. This request serves the best interest for the
       City of Draper, the connecting neighborhood, and the owners of the property in several
       ways. The property, as it is currently utilized, consists of lawn and trees that require a
       level of irrigation, water, and constant maintenance that is disproportionate for the
       surrounding homes in the neighborhood. The current water shortages are expected to
       continue and this requested zoning change helps to better distribute these limited
       resources.
    3. The additional residence will provide its own off-street parking to reduce the impact of
       large family gatherings on the immediate neighborhood. The results of the project are
       two separate properties that are much closer in size and usage to the immediate
       neighborhood than the current property configuration. The current owners are on the
       threshold of retirement and their ability to continue to properly maintain the property
       diminishes with each new season.
    4. The property to the east consists of townhouses. To the south is a large undeveloped
       property that will not be affected by the proposed change. The property across the
       street to the north and the adjacent properties to the east are all new construction
       homes on similar sized properties to the proposed change. This project and use of the
       land is consistent with the goals, objectives and policies of the City of Draper in
       furthering the best use of properties as they are developed in a way that is beneficial to
       the immediate neighborhood and a positive impact on resource altercation, property
       maintenance and attractive architectural development.
