Draft minutes 01/27/2022
MINUTES OF THE DRAPER CITY PLANNING COMMISSION MEETING HELD ON
THURDAY, JANUARY 27, 2022 IN THE DRAPER CITY COUNCIL CHAMBERS

PARTICIPATING:       Chairperson Andrew Adams, Vice Chairperson Craig Hawker,
                     Commissioners DeLaina Tonks, Tab Bingham, Mary Squire and Lisa
                     Fowler


ABSENT:              Commissioner John Van Hoff, Susan Nixon and Gary, Ogden


STAFF PRESENT:       Jennifer Jastremsky, Mike Barker, Brien Maxfield, Spencer DuShane,
                     Amie Salazar and Todd Draper


6:30 PM Business Meeting:


   1.     Action Item: Approve Planning Commission Meeting Minutes for November 18,
          2021 (Administrative Action)

Motion: Commissioner Mary Squire motioned to approve the minutes for the November 18,
2021 Planning Commission Meeting.

Second: Commissioner Lisa Fowler.

Vote: A roll call was taken with the Commissioners voting 5-0 in favor of the motion.
Commissioners Fowler, Bingham, Hawker, Squire and Tonks voted, “Aye”.

   2.     Action Item: Approve Planning Commission Meeting Minutes for December 9,
          2021 (Administrative Action)

Motion: Commissioner DeLaina Tonks motioned to approve the minutes for the December
9, 2021 Planning Commission Meeting.

Second: Commissioner Tab Bingham.

Vote: A roll call was taken with the Commissioners voting 5-0 in favor of the motion.
Commissioners Bingham, Fowler, Hawker, Squire and Tonks voted, “Aye”.

   3.     Public Hearing: MD Aesthetics Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit
          (Administrative Action)

On the request of Debi Babinski representing MD Aesthetics LLC, a request for a Home
Occupation Conditional Use Permit to operate a personal care service for a home based business,
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
January 27, 2022
Page 2
11815 S Cottage View Ln., known as application USE-0180-2021, Staff Contact: Todd A. Draper
(801) 576-6335, todd.draper@draperutah.gov

This item has been continued to the February 10th meeting.

       4.      Public Hearing: Dancer in the Desert Designs Home Occupational Use Permit
               (Administrative Item)

On the request of Stephanie B. Jackson, representing Dancer in the Desert Designs LLC, a request
for a Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit for a cottage business, on approximately 0.47
acres, 13147 S Tuscan Grove Cove, known as application USE-0197-2021, Staff Contact: Todd
A. Draper (801) 576-6335, todd.draper@draperutah.gov

Todd Draper, Planner, presented the staff report. He indicated this is an application for a home
occupation conditional use permit. The property is located at the intersection of Tucson Cove Road
and Golden Pheasant Drive. The property contains a land use designation of Residential Low
Medium Density and is zoned RA2. He presented the site plan and mentioned the home occupation
is for design and construction of custom-made dance clothing and costumes. The business
operations will be conducted within a basement room. He showed the floor plan and noted the
southeast corner of the basement has been remodeled to add a sewing and craft room. He presented
street view photos of the site.

Chair Adams invited the applicant to speak.

Applicant, Stephanie Jackson stated she makes custom dance customs and ballet tutus. Most of
her work is done in client’s homes so she can measure them. She indicated there are a few out of
state customers.

Vice Chair Hawker asked if she planned to have customers come to her home. She responded they
would not.

Chair Adams opened the public hearing. There were no speakers. He then closed the public
hearing.

Motion: Commissioner Hawker made a motion to approve the Home Occupation
Conditional Use Permit as requested by Stephanie B. Jackson, representing Dancer in the
Desert Designs, LLC for a cottage business, Application USE-0197-2021, based on the
findings and subject to the conditions listed in the staff report, dated January 18, 2022.

Second: Commissioner Bingham.

Vote: A roll call was taken with the Commissioners voting 5-0 in favor of the motion.
Commissioners Bingham, Fowler, Hawker, Squire and Tonks voted, “Aye”.

6.     Adjournment



                                                2
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
January 27, 2022
Page 3
Jennifer Jastremsky, Planning Manager reminded the Planning Commissioners to sign their
conflict-of-interest forms. She mentioned they will send out a new one tomorrow. She indicated
an email was sent out about training in Taylorsville on February 8, 2022. This will count towards
their required four hours of training.

Chair Adams called for a motion to adjourn; Commissioner Squire made a motion to adjourn.
Commissioners Bingham, Squire, Fowler, Tonks and Hawker stated, “Aye”.

The meeting adjourned at 6:39 p.m.




                                               3
