Draft minutes 01/13/2022
fMINUTES OF THE DRAPER CITY PLANNING COMMISSION MEETING HELD ON
THURDAY, JANUARY 13, 2022 IN THE DRAPER CITY COUNCIL CHAMBERS

PARTICIPATING:        Chairperson Andrew Adams, Commissioners Lisa Fowler, Mary Squire,
                      Gary Ogden, and Alternate Commissioners DeLaina Tonks and Susan
                      Nixon

ABSENT:               Vice Chairperson Craig Hawker, Commissioners John Van Hoff, and
                      Alternate Commissioner Tab Bingham


STAFF PRESENT:        Jennifer Jastremsky, Mike Barker, Brien Maxfield, Spencer DuShane,
                      Maryann Pickering, Amie Salazar and Todd Draper

 6:30 PM Business Meeting:


   1.      Public Hearing: Mountain Point Quilting Home Occupation Conditional Use
           Permit Request (Administrative Action)

Maryann Pickering, Planner presented the staff report. She indicated the property is on Rocky
Mouth. The property is designated Residential Medium density in the land use map and zoned
RM. The property is part of the South Mountain Agreement. The applicant is proposing a home-
based quilting business. No customers will be onsite. The business will operate within 125 sf of
the home which translated to about 4% of the square footage. The property is subject to the South
Mountain Agreement which is based on the 1999 zoning code.

Applicant Cindy Stokes indicated that she did not have anything to add.

Commissioner Adams opened the public hearing. There were no comments. He then closed the
public hearing.

Motion: Commissioner Fowler motioned to approve the home occupation for Conditional
Use Permit as requested by Jeffrey and Cindy Stokes, Application USE 166-2021, based on
the findings and subject to the conditions listed in the staff report, dated January 4, 2022.

Second: Commissioner Ogden

Vote: A roll call was taken with the Commissioners voting 5-0 in favor of the motion.
Commissioners Ogden, Fowler, Tonks, Squire and Nixon voted, “Aye”.


   2.      Public Hearing: McClure Rezone (Legislative Item)

On the request of Mitchel McClure, a Zoning Map Amendment request from the A5 (Agricultural,
5 acre minimum lot size) zone to RA2 (Residential Agricultural, 20,000 ft2 minimum lot size)
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
January 13, 2022
Page 2
zone, approximately 0.648 acres, located at approximately 1641 E. Costanza Way, known as
application TEXTMAP-0118-2021, Staff Contact: Todd A. Draper, (801) 576-6335,
todd.draper@draperutah.gov.

Todd Draper, Planner presented the staff report. He indicated this is a request for a rezone from
A5 to RA2. The rezone would affect one whole parcel and the southern portion of another. The
property is located between the rail line, Porter Rockwell Trail and Draper Canal Trail. The land
use map designates the property as Residential Low / Medium Density. This property is located
south of another property rezoned from A5 to RA2. He overviewed site photos. He indicated the
property is bifurcated by the trail and they would adjust the property lines to create one parcel on
either side of the trail.

It was noted that the applicant is not in attendance.

Commissioner Adams opened the public hearing. No one commented. He then closed the public
hearing.

Motion: Commissioner Nixon motioned to forward a positive recommendation to the City
Council for the zoning map amendment as requested by Mitchel McClure for the zone
change from A5 to RA2, Application TEXTMAP-0118-2021, based on the findings and
subject to the conditions listed in the staff report, dated January 3, 2022.

Second: Commissioner Squire

Vote: A roll call was taken with the Commissioners voting 5-0 in favor of the motion.
Commissioners Ogden, Fowler, Tonks, Squire and Nixon voted, “Aye”.

3.     Public Hearing: LaBrie & Flater Plat Amendment Request (Administrative Action)

A request by John LaBrie and Molly Flater for approval of a plat amendment to amend the existing
plat to adjust the common property line between existing plat to adjust the common property line
between existing lots 120 and 121 of the Ridgewood Subdivision. The properties are located at
approximately 14804 and 14808 S. Maple Park Court. Staff contact: Maryann Pickering at 801-
576-6391 or maryann.pickering@draperutah.gov.

Maryann Pickering, Planner, presented the staff report. She presented an aerial photo of the two
properties. She indicated the land use is designated as Low Medium Residential and zoned RM
and subject to the South Mountain Agreement. The applicant is proposing a lot line adjustment
within an existing subdivision to move a property line between two properties. All easements have
been accounted for and both properties will continue to meet the standards of the zone. The lots
will retain similar sizes as they have now. She then presented the amended plat showing the
proposed lot lines.

It was noted the applicant not in attendance.




                                                  2
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
January 13, 2022
Page 3
Chairman Adams opened the public hearing. There were no public comments. He then closed the
public hearing.

Commissioner Fowler asked if the names on the application are the two property owners.

Ms. Pickering indicated that they are and they have both agreed to the applicant and will sign the
owners dedication on the plat.

Motion: Commissioner Ogden made a motion to approve the plat amendment as requested
by John LaBrie and Molly Flater of the LaBrie and Flater Plat Amendment, Application
SUBD-036-2021, based on the findings and subject to the conditions listed in the staff report,
dated January 2, 2022.

Second: Commissioner Tonks

Vote: A roll call was taken with the Commissioners voting 5-0 in favor of the motion.
Commissioners Squire, Ogden, Tonks, Fowler and Nixon voted “Aye”.

4.     Public Hearing: Reynolds Home Zoning Map Amendment (Legislative Action)

A request by Harold Reynolds, for a zoning map amendment from the RA2 (Residential
Agricultural, 20,000 square foot lot minimum) zone to the R4 (Single-family Residential, 10,000
square foot lot minimum) zone on properties equaling 1.43 acres in size located approximately
1595 East 12700 South. Application TEXTMAP-0182-2021. Staff contact is Jennifer Jastremsky,
801-576-6328, jennifer.jastremsky@draperutah.gov.

Jennifer Jastremsky, Planning Manager presented the staff report. She showed an aerial view of
the four properties under consideration located on 12700 S. The properties are designated Low-
Medium Density Residential in the land use map and zoned RA-2 which is a ½ acre lot zone. The
applicant is requesting to rezone the properties to R-4 zone which is a single-family zone with a
minimum lot size of 10,000 sf. The properties pre-date the city and zoning and are roughly ¼ to
1/3 acre in size. The applicants recently completed a boundary line adjustment outside of the city’s
process. Parcel two is not improved and has been used agriculturally in the past. The new owner
would like to build a home on the lot. The rezone will allow the properties to comply with the
minimum lot size of the zone as they currently are not in compliance. She presented images of the
properties.

Commissioner Fowler stated the houses across the street are on small lots. She asked if the lots
were comparable in size.

Ms. Jastremsky stated they are but are less than the zone’s minimum.

Commissioner Tonks asked if a subdivision plat is needed.

Ms. Jastremsky mentioned it is not since they are not creating an additional lot.



                                                 3
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
January 13, 2022
Page 4
Chairman Adams invited the applicant to speak.

Howard Reynolds stated they have been residents of the city for 35 years and want to stay in the
city and build a home for themselves.

Chairman Adams opened the public hearing.

Graden Jackson, a neighbor, stated his support for the application.

Chairman Adams closed the public hearing.

Commissioner Nixon stated it appears to fit the lot sizes of the surrounding properties.

Commissioner Squire stated that changing the zoning would bring the properties into alignment
with their lots sizes.

Motion: Commissioner Flowler motioned to forward a positive recommendation to the City
Council for the zoning map amendment, as requested by Harold Reynolds, for Reynolds
Zoning Map Amendment, Application TEXTMAP-0182-2021, based on the findings and
subject to the conditions listed in the staff report, dated January 4, 2022.

Second: Commissioner Squire

Vote: A roll call was taken with the Commissioners voting 5-0 in favor of the motion.
Commissioners Ogden, Squire, Fowler, Tonks, and Nixon voted, “Aye”. (Legislative Action)


5.     Public Hearing: City Initiated 2021 Bulk Text Amendment #2 (Legislative Action)

On the request of Draper City for a Text Amendment to Titles 9 and 17 of Draper City Municipal
Code in order to amend general regulations pertaining to definitions, special regulations in
commercial zones, deviations from design standards, building design, site design, parking location,
parking area design and construction, height limitations and exceptions, cross access and
connectivity, and other typographical and de minimis corrections, this application is known as the
City Initiated 2021 Bulk Text Amendment #2. Application: TEXTMAP-0203-2021. Staff Contact:
Todd Draper, (801) 576-6335, todd.draper@draperutah.gov.

Todd Draper, Planner stated this is the second amendment for 2021 and started later in the year.
They needed to make amendments to the code for cross access, access points, road connections
and height deviations for commercial properties. They also publicly noticed amendments to
helipads but have decided to take that topic out and address it as its own application. He
overviewed each proposed section amendment, included:
Section 9-3-040
    • Adding definition for Abut or Abutting
    • Retitled term Mixed Use Center as Mixed Use
Section 9-11-070 Special Regulations


                                                 4
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
January 13, 2022
Page 5
   • Remove unlimited deviations for commercial building height and cap the deviation to
       architectural features that do not increase the habitable square footage
   • No higher than 14 feet of additional height
   • May not cover an area equal to or less than 10% of floor area of the uppermost floor
   • Building requesting a height deviation must also provide specific architectural detailing of
       the façade or roofline
Section 9-22-030
   • Provide more specificity as to what design standards a deviation request can be made
   • Proposed the elimination of the ability for projects to deviate from height and roofline
       design standards
   • Eliminate unenforceable subjective standards that existing in the current ordinance
   • Clarification provided within the list of individual design criteria that proposed
       developments must meet to better describe the desired intent, including the elimination of
       one criterion which was subjective and potentially arbitrary
   • Language proposed to strengthen the requirement that the applicant has the responsibility
       to demonstrate compliance with the criteria to the Planning Commission by providing a
       written analysis from a licensed professional
   • Updates the require findings for approval of a deviation request.
Section 9-22-040 (subsection D)
   • Strengthen requirements for rooflines and parapet walls to vary architecturally and avoid
       monotonous rooflines
   • New standards for additional building height related to the screening of mechanical
       equipment are proposed
   • Screen walls limited to the height of the equipment up to a maximum of 14 feet in height.
Section 9-22-050 (subsection F)
   • Parking and circulation subsection and include updates to provision requiring vehicular
       and pedestrian connectivity and cross access to abutting and neighboring development sites
   • Clarification is proposed to the requirement to provide a traffic impact study per adopted
       city guidelines
   • Removal of the term deadmen and replacement with the term wheel stops
   • Creation of requirements for providing cross access and street connectivity between
       nonresidential and mixed us development is proposed, including
           o Connection of new development to existing stub streets, and providing stub streets
               to anticipated future development
           o Provision of perpetual easements for cross access drives
           o Requirement to pave cross accesses and provide a width and design as approved by
               the Fire Marshal
           o The prohibition of gates across access drives
Section 9-25-050 (subsection J)
       •       Increases the emphasis on providing cross access and connectivity between parking
       areas on abutting and adjacent properties.
Section 9-25-080 (subsection E)
       •       Clarification that mixed use developments also must comply with the cross-access
       standards for nonresidential developments
       •       Provisions for perpetual easements for cross access drives


                                               5
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
January 13, 2022
Page 6
       •       Requirement to pave cross accesses and provide a width and design as approved by
       the Fire Marshal
       •       Prohibition on gates across access drives
       •       Updates to more clearly articulate the circumstances when a deviation from the
       requirement to provide cross access can be granted by the Planning Commission
Section 9-27-120 (subsection B)
       •       Scales back the currently unlimited allowance of additional height for things like
               spires, towers, belfries, cupolas and domes to churches or places of worship and
               restrict these architectural features to those that are not used for human occupancy
       •       Eliminate the currently unlimited height allowances for mechanical equipment and
               associated screening as well as that of monuments, chimneys, water tanks, and
               elevator bulkheads
Section 17-5-035
       •       Provisions for cross access and connectivity to be included at the time of the
               subdivision plat
       •       The provision of streets and/or cross access drives that connect to neighboring and
               abutting properties
       •       Provides perpetual easement across private streets and cross access drives
       •       Provisions to tie the enactment of certain easements to the purchase of the
               protection strip in cases where protection strips are utilized between subdivisions

Commissioner Nixon pointed out issues with inconsistency between sections and suggested the
architectural elements section be the same.

Mr. Draper explained there were differences between the sections as it relates to different building
types.

Ms. Jastremsky stated there is wiggle room because they use the phrasing “such as.”

Mr. Draper stated the features are different because the uses are different. There are some
similarities.

Chairman Adams opened the public hearing.

Chris Hogle, Holland & Hart stated he represents Utah Capital the owner of property in the city.
Mr. Hogle offered the commission a handout. He indicated he is there to speak about modifications
to section 9-25-080 and 17-5035 dealing with the cross access. He explained how the existing code
works in regards to shared access. He provided an example of how the modifications would
negatively impact property owners. The change would replace “reciprocal easement” with
“perpetual easement” which is not for the benefit of both parcels and only one parcel. He explained
that a mandatory dedication of land for a road, which is what the cross access would be, from one
property owner to another would be for the benefit of just one property owner. He mentioned this
is a form of a “taking.” He explained state law and mentioned the proposed code is not in line with
state code.




                                                 6
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
January 13, 2022
Page 7
Sam Wilkinson, 358 Steep Mountain Drive asked the Planning Commission to consider their
responsibility in drafting these ordinances. He asked that they be consistent and ensure the
ordinances are in line with the constitution. They need to understand if they are creating a taking.

Chairman Adams closed the public hearing and asked staff for their feedback on the public
comments.

Mike Barker stated he would not state his opinion on the matter without looking into it first.

Commissioner Fowler stated if you look at Section 9-25-080 you can see the cross-access
standards has always been required. This is not new. She asked why it is being added into the d
and have Mike Barker look further into the issue. They can revisit these two amendments during
the next meeting.

Ms. Jastremsky overviewed their options and indicated it is cleaner to move the full code together
and recommended they continue the entire item for review.


Motion: Commissioner Squire motioned to continue the text amendment as requested by
Draper City for the city initiated 2020 Bulk Text Amendment #2, Application TEXTMAP-
0203-2021, to the Planning Commission’s February 10, 2022 meeting.

Second: Commissioner Nixon

Vote: A roll call was taken with the Commissioners voting 5-0 in favor of the motion.
Commissioners Ogden, Squire, Fowler, Tonks and Nixon voted, “Aye”. (Legislative Action)


Motion: Commissioner Squire motioned to adjourn.

Vote: A roll call was taken with the Commissioners voting 5-0 in favor of the motion.
Commissioners Ogden, Squire, Fowler, Tonks and Nixon voted, “Aye”. (Legislative Action).

Meeting adjourned 7:27p.m.




                                                 7
