                                  ORDINANCE NO. 1535

        AN ORDINANCE OF DRAPER CITY AMENDING THE TEXT OF THE LAND USE
        AND DEVELOPMENT CODE (TITLE 9) AND THE LAND DEVELOPMENT CODE
        (TITLE 17) OF THE DRAPER CITY MUNICIPAL CODE RELATING TO
        DEFINITIONS, EXACTIONS, SPECIAL REGULATIONS IN COMMERCIAL ZONES,
        DEVIATIONS FROM DESIGN STANDARDS, BUILDING DESIGN, SITE DESIGN,
        PARKING LOCATION, PARKING AREA DESIGN AND CONSTRUCTION, HEIGHT
        LIMITATIONS AND EXCEPTIONS, CROSS ACCESS AND CONNECTIVITY, AND
        OTHER TYPOGRAPHICAL AND DE MINIMIS CORRECTIONS IN CODE SECTIONS
        9-3-040, 9-11-070, 9-22-030, 9-22-040, 9-22-050, 9-25-050, 9-25-080, 9-27-120,
        AND 17-1-040; AND ENACTING SECTIONS 9-5-220, 17-1-160, AND 17-5-035.

      WHEREAS, Utah State law grants to Draper City the authority to regulate uses of
property by enacting land use regulations, among other methods; and

       WHEREAS, it is necessary from time to time to revise certain terms of the Draper City
Municipal Code to address provisions that become diminished in appropriateness,
applicability, clarity or to comply with changes in state law; and

       WHEREAS, the Land Use and Development Code and the Land Development Code of
the Draper City Municipal Code (collectively the “Development Codes”) have been
established to provide regulations concerning development activity within the City
Boundaries; and

      WHEREAS, the City Council of Draper City adopted the Development Codes to guide
development within the City Boundaries; and

       WHEREAS, the City Council of Draper City finds good cause to revise the terms and
provisions of the Development Codes in response to changes in Utah State Code; and

      WHEREAS, notice has been issued according to the requirements of the Utah Code
Annotated and Draper City Municipal Code for public hearings before the Planning
Commission and City Council to receive public input regarding the revision of the
Development Codes; and

       WHEREAS, the Planning Commission and City Council have each held a public hearing
to receive public input regarding the revision of the Development Codes.

      NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF DRAPER CITY, STATE
OF UTAH, AS FOLLOWS:




Ordinance No. 1535                           1                 City Initiated Bulk Text Amendment #2
                                                                                      Text Amendment
       Section 1.     Findings. The City Council of Draper City has made the following
findings regarding the proposed text amendments to the Development Codes: 1. The
proposed amendments are consistent with goals, objectives and policies of the city's
general plan. 2. The proposed amendments further the specific purpose statements of the
Development Codes. 3. The proposed amendments are appropriate given the context of
the request and there is sufficient justification for a modification to the Development
Codes. 4. The potential effects of the proposed amendments have been evaluated and
determined to be beneficial to public health, safety, and welfare and represent an overall
community benefit. 5. The proposed text amendments implement best current,
professional practices of urban planning, design, and engineering practices and are
consistent with state law.

       Section 2.      Revision. Sections 9-3-040, 9-11-070, 9-22-030, 9-22-040, 9-22-050, 9-
25-050, 9-25-080, and 9-27-120 of the Land Use and Development Code and Section 17-1-
040 of the Land Development Code of the Draper City Municipal Code are hereby revised
to read as set forth in Exhibit A.

        Section 3.   Enactment. Section 9-5-220 of the Land Use and Development Code
of the Draper City Municipal Code and Sections 17-1-160 and 17-5-035 of the Land
Development Code of the Draper City Municipal Code are hereby enacted to read as set
forth in Exhibit A.

      Section 4.    Correction of Editing Errors. The city attorney is authorized to correct
any punctuation, spelling, formatting, clerical, or de minimis errors in Exhibit A prior to
submitting the ordinance for publishing.

        Section 5.   Severability. If any section, part or provision of this Ordinance is held
invalid or unenforceable, such invalidity or unenforceability shall not affect any other portion
of this Ordinance, and all sections, parts and provisions of this Ordinance shall be severable.

        Section 6.   Effective Date. This Ordinance shall become effective immediately
upon publication or posting, or 30 days after final passage, whichever is closer to the date of
final passage.

PASSED AND ADOPTED BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF DRAPER CITY, STATE OF UTAH, ON THE
___________DAY OF___________, 2022.

                                                   DRAPER CITY



                                                   _____________________________
                                                   Mayor Troy K. Walker



Ordinance No. 1535                             2                   City Initiated Bulk Text Amendment #2
                                                                                          Text Amendment
ATTEST:



_________________________________
Laura Oscarson, CMC, City Recorder



 VOTE TAKEN:                             YES               NO

 Councilmember Green

 Councilmember T. Lowery

 Councilmember F. Lowry

 Councilmember Roberts

 Councilmember Vawdrey

 Mayor Walker




Ordinance No. 1535                   3         City Initiated Bulk Text Amendment #2
                                                                      Text Amendment
                                    EXHIBIT A

9-3-040: DEFINITIONS:

ABUT OR ABUTTING: Contiguous with or sharing a common property line,
boundary, border, or protection strip.

…

CROSS ACCESS: A means of access providing internal circulation between one (1) or
more properties, usually by means of a recorded perpetual easement.

…

MIXED USE CENTER: See definition of Planned Center.

…



9-5-220: EXACTIONS:

    A. The city may impose an exaction or exactions on development proposed in a
       land use application, if:

       1. An essential link exists between a legitimate governmental interest and
          the exaction; and

       2. The exaction is roughly proportionate, both in nature and extent, to the
          impact of the proposed development.

    B. An applicant may request the Community Development Director or designee
       review an exaction or exactions for compliance with the standards listed in
       subsection A. The Director or designee will issue a written opinion.

    C. An applicant may appeal the decision in accordance with Draper City
       Municipal Code 2-4-060.



9-11-070: SPECIAL REGULATIONS:
A. Increased Height Limits: Notwithstanding the height limitations shown in
   section 9-11-110, table 9-11-2 of this chapter, greater building height may be
   allowed in all commercial zones, except the CN and TC zones, pursuant to
   approval of a deviation by the planning commission. The planning
   commission may approve deviations from the height limitations in section 9-
   11-110, table 9-11-2 of this chapter for architectural features of buildings
   such as; towers, spires, chimneys, and clocks. A deviation under this section
   is not permitted for properties in the CN and TC zones. Any deviation
   Deviations approved under this section shall meet the following standards:

   1. The overall proposed height of the architectural feature shall not have a
      material adverse effect upon the character of the area or the public
      health, safety and general welfare not exceed fourteen feet (14') above
      the applicable building height limitations of section 9-11-110, table 9-11-2.

   2. The proposed height shall be constructed and arranged so as to be
      compatible with the use and development of neighboring properties with
      respect to scale and massingThe deviation shall not create a detrimental
      impact to public health, safety, or general welfare.

   3. The building will be designed to relate to the human scale and
      incorporate at least one of the following:

      a. Architectural detailing included on the ground floor to emphasize the
         pedestrian level of the building, including, but not limited to,
         intermediate cornice line, sign band, awnings or portico feature,
         change in building materials, and window shape.

      b. Include architectural detailing at the cornice level or accentuated
         building zones, when appropriate to the architectural style of the
         building.

      c. The roofline contains architectural features that give it a distinctive
         form or skyline, or the rooftop is designed for purposes such as
         rooftop gardens, common space for building occupants or the public,
         viewing platforms, shading or daylighting structures, renewable energy
         systems, and other similar uses.

   3. The overall area of the architectural feature may not exceed ten-percent
      (10%) of the gross floor area of the uppermost story of the building.

   4. The architectural feature shall not create additional habitable area or
      usable building floor space.
     5. The overall building design shall incorporate one or more of the following:

        a. Architectural details that emphasize the pedestrian level of the
           building, including but not limited to, a cordon or belt course, sign
           band, awnings or porticos, a change in building materials, or a change
           in window shapes;

        b. Architectural detailing of the façade that includes a projecting cornice
           at the roofline and cordons or belt courses between floors, or
           accentuated building façade zones, as fitting to the architectural style
           of the building; or

        c. Other architectural features at the roof level that create a distinctive
           form or skyline, including, but not limited to, rooftop gardens, viewing
           platforms, shading or daylighting structures, renewable energy
           systems, and other similar features.



9-22-030: DEVIATION FROM DESIGN STANDARDS:

  A. Purpose: In the event anAn applicant may requests a deviations from the
     development design standards of sections 9-22-040 and 9-22-050 of this
     chapter with the exception of the height and roofline design standards of
     subsection 9-22-040(D) and has submitted a project that contains features
     and excellence in design above and beyond those required, the planning
     commission shall have the discretion to amend some or all of the design
     standards, as long as such deviation is consistent with the purpose and
     intent of the policies and development standards pertaining to the applicable
     zoning district or land use category as described in this chapter. Deviations
     from the design standards of 9-22-050(F) shall meet the deviation criteria
     listed in 9-25-080(E)(2).

  B. Deviation Criteria Threshold: The planning commission shall take into
     consideration at least three (3) of the following criteria in considering a
     deviation of design standards Proposed developments requesting a
     deviation under this section shall meet at least three (3) of the following
     criteria:

     1. The project contains proposed development includes additional
        amenities such as or pedestrian and bike connectivity in excess of what is
        otherwise required in the development code and site plan review.
   2. The overall percentage of dedicated public or private landscape and open
      space area provided within the proposed development exceeds the
      required amounts by more than ten percent (10%).

   3. The project proposed development is a transit oriented development
      (TOD) and provides direct connectivity for active transportation methods
      to a transportation facility.

   4. Traffic impacts on the neighborhood are lessened The traffic impacts of
      the proposed development will be mitigated through programs, such as
      creative design, traffic calming measures, companywide carpool or transit
      pass programs, or other similar measures.

   5. The project is proposed development is designed to meetan accredited
      LEED certification standardsdevelopment.

   6. The variations are consistent with the purpose of this chapter and any
      applicable master plan or ordinance.

   7. 6. The project proposed development is required to create a consistent
       and compatible design in cases which involves redeveloped buildings,
       additions to existing buildings, minor structures being added to a site, or
       is a new buildings within a previously approved phased project
       development and the deviation is necessary to create a consistency with
       other existing buildings.

   8.7. Additional landscape plant material is provided Vegetative landscaping
      (excluding lawn, turf, and groundcovers) exceeds the amounts required in
      this Title by at least ten percent (10%)more than the minimum required,
      including additional planting beds, plants, trees or a combination thereof.

   9.8. The building design is designed by a licensed architect in a specific
      architectural style, such as contemporary or modern, which that utilizes
      facade materials differently then than prescribed in subsection 9-22-
      040(F) of this chapter and is designed by a licensed architect.

   10.9. The amount of primary materials used for a each building facade is at
      least exceeds the required amount by more than ten percent (10%)
      greater than the minimum required amount.

C. Request Responsibility: The applicant shall demonstrate to the planning
   commission the benefit of amending the standards of this chapter that the
   development application meets three (3) or more of the criteria of subsection
   9-22-030(B) above and that the deviation is of benefit to the city by:
       1. Providing a written description and analysis of the specific development
          standards to be lessened proposed design standard deviation(s) and an
          analysis of the selected criteria from subsection 9-22-030(B) above. The
          analysis analyses shall be written by a licensed professional, such as an
          architect, engineer or landscape architect;

       2. Providing a written justification as to why the city should lessen or alter
          deviate from its design standards indicating that indicates any benefit to
          the city or to the project.

    D. Findings Required: The planning commission may approve deviations from
       the development design standards listed in this chapter only if it finds, based
       upon a finding of facts as stated in subsection B of this section, that the
       deviation is in the benefit of the health, safety and welfare of the city and the
       project.:

       1. That the requested deviation is consistent with the purpose and intent of
          the development standards of the applicable zoning district or land use
          category; and

       2. That the proposed development satisfies at least three (3) of the criteria
          listed in 9-22-030(B).



9-22-040: BUILDING DESIGN:

…

    D. Height And Roofline: All buildings shall demonstrate an appropriate roof
       height that is compatible with the building's location, and vary rooflines in
       order to add architectural interest and avoid the appearance or sense of
       monotonous roofline expanses. All buildings shallby:

       1. Demonstrate appropriate roof height for the location based on zoning
          regulations and the height of buildings within the immediate area;

       2.1. ProvideProviding roofline and parapet variations where there are long,
          continuous, and undisturbed rooflines fifty feet (50') or greater longer;

       3.2. Use similarUsing materials and colors on the back of false fronts,
          parapets, cornices, or other parts of the building which extend beyond
          the roofline or main that are similar to the rest of the building so that the
          building appears cohesive from all views; and
       4.3. Provide for screening of Screening mechanical equipment and systems
          that need to be are mounted on the roof. The height of screen walls for
          mechanical equipment and systems located on the roof may extend
          above the typical building height limits in the zone, but shall not extend
          higher than the equipment being screened, or fourteen feet (14’),
          whichever is less. Screen walls permitted to extend above the typical
          height limits in the zone under this section may not be utilized for
          building signage. Any minimal portion of these pieces of the mechanical
          equipment or systems that may not be fully shielded screened from view
          shall be painted a the same color which is compatible with as the roofing
          or parapet materials.

…



9-22-050: SITE DESIGN:

…

    F. Parking And and Site Circulation: Lifestyle, separated land uses, and lack of
       sufficient public transit have created the need for parking and access for
       automobiles onto most commercial sites. Measures shall be taken to
       Commercial development creates impacts to the city transportation system,
       including the mutual inducement of development pressures and impacts
       between abutting properties. Applicants for development shall design
       proposed ensure that needed parking areas, drive aisles, access points and
       streets are designed in such a way as to have a minimal impact on the built
       environment as possible and provide vehicular and pedestrian connectivity
       to abutting sites. City staff shall conduct an individualized determination for
       any exaction required by this subsection according to the procedures
       outlined in section 9-05-220.

       1. Developments which generate significant increases in traffic should
          include an analysis of the proposed development's impact on the current
          and future transportation system, and methods to control traffic (such as
          signage, turn lanes, and traffic signals). The content of such analysis
          should follow guidelines established by the city Each application shall
          comply with the traffic impact study guidelines and related requirements
          in section 11-02-060 of this code.

       2. Major internal circulation drive aisles and roadways that provide access
          from the public right of way or between buildings on the same site or
   which provide required cross access or connectivity to abutting sites shall
   be separated from parking areas using curb and gutter and a
   combination of any of the following methods:

   a. Landscaping;

   b. Pedestrian walkways; or

   c. Lighting.

3. Pedestrian walkways shall have a minimum five foot (5') wide free travel
   width. Where deadmen are not used to keep vehicles off the roadway,
   two feet (2') shall be added to the walkway for vehicle overhang in
   addition to the five foot (5') wide free travel width. Additionally, where
   other encroachments into the walkway exist, widths of the walkways shall
   be increased to ensure the five foot (5') wide free travel width.Pedestrian
   walkways shall have a minimum five feet (5') wide free travel width.
   Where wheel stops are not used to keep vehicles off the walkway, the
   pedestrian walkway shall be a minimum of seven feet (7’) wide.
   Additionally, where other encroachments into the walkway exist, widths
   of the walkways shall be increased to ensure the minimum five feet (5')
   wide free travel width.

4. Cross access for automobiles and pedestrians to future and existing
   commercial developments shall be provided during initial site planning
   and construction, and in perpetuity. Abutting nonresidential or mixed use
   developments accessing a street of a major collector or arterial class shall
   have a shared access point between development sites. When a shared
   access point is provided between abutting sites, the city may waive cross
   access requirements between their parking areas.

5. Subject to compliance with applicable engineering standards found in
   Titles 7, 8, 11, 12, 16, and 18, nonresidential and mixed use developments
   shall provide perpetual cross access and connectivity for pedestrians,
   vehicles, and emergency vehicles to abutting properties with existing or
   planned nonresidential and mixed use developments by;

   a. Connecting to existing cross access drives, streets, sidewalks and
      pedestrian walkways that abut the property; and

   b. Stubbing proposed cross access drives, streets, sidewalks and
      pedestrian walkways to abutting properties to facilitate future cross
      access and connectivity between properties.
       6. Cross access drives, streets, sidewalks and pedestrian walkways between
          properties subject to this section shall:

          a. Accommodate customary pedestrian, vehicular, and emergency
             vehicle access, the required minimum width of which shall be five feet
             (5’) for sidewalks and walkways, and as determined by the fire marshal
             based upon the requirements for fire access roadways for cross access
             drives and streets;

          b. Be constructed of asphalt or cement;

          c. Include access easements for ingress and egress across the cross
             access drives, private streets, sidewalks and pedestrian walkways for
             access by emergency vehicles and the benefit of employees, patrons
             and visitors of the abutting development; and

          d. Be reciprocal between abutting properties.

       7. Easements required under this section shall be recorded prior to issuance
          of a land disturbance permit or building permit.

       8. Gates are not allowed across a cross access drive or street providing cross
          access or connectivity under this section.

…



9-25-050: PARKING LOCATION:

…

    J. Development Parking: Parking within and between areas for nonresidential
       and mixed use developments is strongly encouraged to shall be provided in a
       manner that provides for a cohesive environment be located and designed to
       facilitate cross access between adjacent both existing and anticipated
       abutting developments. Placement of parking for adjacent abutting
       nonresidential and mixed use developments are strongly encouraged to shall
       locate parking between the buildings and away from streets frontages to the
       greatest extent possible.

…



9-25-080: PARKING AREA DESIGN AND CONSTRUCTION:
…

    E. Cross Access:

       1. Cross access between existing, proposed, or anticipated nonresidential
          and mixed use developments shall be designed and provided as follows
          comply with the following standards:

          a. Parking areas associated with all nonresidential and mixed use
             developments shall be designed to accommodate cross access to
             existing and anticipated abutting neighboring nonresidential and
             mixed use developments;

          b. Nonresidential and mixed use developments on individual parcels
             which have access onto a street of a major collector or arterial class
             shall provide cross access for parking areas to abutting neighboring
             sites of a similar circumstance;

          c. Adjacent nonresidential developments accessing a street of a major
             collector or arterial class shall provide a combined street access
             between sites;

          d. In the event any nonresidential site provides, or is designed to provide,
             a combined street access with an abutting site, cross access between
             their parking areas may be waived in lieu of the provision the
             combined street access; and

          e.c. When crossCross access is to be provided, a reciprocal easement to
              effect those provisions required under this section shall also comply
              with the standards listed in subsections 9-22-050(F)(6) through 9-22-
              050(F)(8) shall be recorded with the office of the county recorder
              against each property involved at the time of development or
              redevelopment of the individual parcels.



       2. Nonresidential developments may be approved without providing cross
          access when the planning commission finds that:

          a. The cross access would result in a slope greater than twelve percent
             (12%);

          b. Requirements of this title prevent the provision of cross access by
             creating a nonconformity in those requirements; or
          c. The uses for which the cross access would link are incompatible; and

          d. The site cannot be otherwise designed to accommodate the cross
             access and avoid the conditions of subsections E2a through E2c of this
             section.

       2. Deviation from the requirement to provide cross access; the planning
          commission shall approve a deviation from the requirement to provide
          cross access upon finding that the required cross access:

          a. Would result in the slope of the cross access drive exceeding twelve
             percent (12%);

          b. Would result in a violation or nonconformity with other requirements
             of this title;

          c. Creates a hazard to health, safety, or welfare by linking two uses, such
             as industrial and residential, that would be incompatible with each
             other;

          d. Would require connection to an abutting development which:

              1. Was not previously designed and required to provide reciprocal
                 cross access to the subject property; or

              2. Includes required site improvements that physically impede the
                 ability to create a cross access drive between both properties.

…



9-27-120: HEIGHT LIMITATIONS AND EXCEPTIONS:

…

    B. Additional Height Allowed: The provisions of this title shall not apply to
       restrict the height of integral architectural features of a church or place of
       worship that are not used for human occupancy, including but not limited to
       church spires, towers, or belfries; clock towers, cupolas, or domes not used
       for human occupancy; monuments; chimneys; water tanks; elevator
       bulkheads; or properly screened mechanical appurtenances located on the
       roof of a building. Public and semipublic utility buildings may be erected to a
       height not exceeding thirty five feet (35') if the building is set back from each
       property line at least one foot (1') for each additional foot of building height
       above the normal height limit required for the zone in which the building is
       located.

…



17-1-040: DEFINITIONS:

ABUT OR ABUTTING: See definition of abut or abutting in 9-3-040.

…

CROSS ACCESS: See definition of cross access in 9-3-040.

…

MIXED USE: See definition of mixed use in 9-3-040.

…

STREET, STUB: A street ending extended up to an abutting property that is intended
to be extended through the abutting property and/or provide cross access in the
future.

…



17-1-160: EXACTIONS:

    A. The city may impose an exaction or exactions on development proposed in a
       land use application, if:

       1. An essential link exists between a legitimate governmental interest and
          the exaction; and

       2. The exaction is roughly proportionate, both in nature and extent, to the
          impact of the proposed development.

    B. An applicant may request the Community Development Director or designee
       review an exaction or exactions for compliance with the standards listed in
       subsection A. The Director or designee will issue a written opinion.

    C. An applicant may appeal the decision in accordance with Draper City
       Municipal Code 2-4-060.
17-5-035: CROSS ACCESS AND CONNECTIVITY:

All subdivisions of land zoned or intended for nonresidential or mixed use
development shall provide vehicular and pedestrian connectivity between lots
within the subdivision and other existing or intended nonresidential or mixed use
development abutting the property. This shall be accomplished through
compliance with the site design standards applicable to plats listed in subsection 9-
22-050(F). Required easements for providing pedestrian and vehicular cross access
and connectivity between properties shall be included on the subdivision plat and
state that it is for the benefit of abutting properties.
