MINUTES OF THE DRAPER CITY COUNCIL MEETING HELD ON TUESDAY, AUGUST 16,
2022, IN THE DRAPER CITY COUNCIL CHAMBERS, 1020 EAST PIONEER ROAD, DRAPER,
UTAH

PRESENT:            Mayor Troy K. Walker, Councilmembers Mike Green (who joined
                    by phone at 7 p.m.), Tasha Lowery, Fred Lowry (who joined by
                    phone at 6:30 p.m.), Cal Roberts, and Marsha Vawdrey

STAFF PRESENT:      David Dobbins, City Manager; Fred Aegerter, Community
                    Development Director; Mike Barker, City Attorney; Kellie
                    Challburg, Chief of Staff; Scott Cooley, City Engineer; John Eining,
                    Police Chief; Bret Millburn, Assistant City Manager; Malena
                    Murray, Human Resources Director; Rhett Ogden, Recreation
                    Director; Laura Oscarson, City Recorder; Linda Peterson,
                    Communications Director; Clint Smith, Fire Chief; Jake Sorensen,
                    IT; and Bob Wylie, Finance Director
_____________________________________________________________
Study Session

1.0   Closed Session

1.1   Councilmember Vawdrey moved to go into a closed session to discuss pending
      or reasonably imminent litigation. Councilmember T. Lowery seconded the
      motion.

1.2   A roll call vote was taken. The motion passed unanimously.

                                       Yes      No      Absent
        Councilmember Green                             X
        Councilmember T. Lowery        X
        Councilmember F. Lowry         X
        Councilmember Roberts          X
        Councilmember Vawdrey          X

2.0   Council/Manager Reports

2.1   Council/Manager reports were given at the end of the Business Session.

Business Session


Draper City Council DRAFT Minutes – August 16, 2022
1.0   Call to Order: Mayor Troy K. Walker

2.0   Thought/Prayer and Pledge of Allegiance

2.1   The prayer was offered by Cooper Johnson of the Draper Youth Council, and
      the Pledge of Allegiance was led by Michael Pond of the Draper Youth Council.

3.0   Oath of Office Ceremony for Draper Youth Council

3.1   Mayor Walker spoke of the important service provided by the Draper Youth
      Council each year. New members of the Youth Council were welcomed and
      sworn in by City Recorder Laura Oscarson.

4.0   Public Comments

4.1   Gaud Maragani a Riverton resident, introduced himself as a candidate for
      Salt Lake County Clerk.

5.0   Consent Items
      a. Approval of August 2, 2022, City Council Meeting Minutes
      b. Approval of Resolution #22-43, a Resolution reappointing Mike Green and
         Kevin Hicks to the Draper City Audit Committee.

5.1   Councilmember Vawdrey moved to approve               both    Consent   Items.
      Councilmember T. Lowery seconded the motion.

5.2   A roll call vote was taken. The motion passed unanimously.

                                     Yes     No      Absent
       Councilmember Green           X
       Councilmember T. Lowery       X
       Councilmember F. Lowry        X
       Councilmember Roberts         X
       Councilmember Vawdrey         X

6.0   Public Hearing: Ordinance #1558, an Ordinance approving the Siempre Events
      Center 1st Amendment Development Agreement for approximately 8.99 acres



                                                                        Page 2 of 7
      of property located at approximately 1283 East Mike Weir Drive within Draper
      City.

6.1   Planning Manager Jennifer Jastremsky oriented the Council with zoning in the
      subject area. She explained the request to eliminate 20 Geo-grass paver
      parking spaces required by the Development Agreement for the Siempre
      Events Center site, in exchange for 10 new parking stalls paved in asphalt and
      an agreement to only hold one wedding event at a time. Ms. Jastremsky said
      the Planning Commission reviewed the request and forwarded a negative
      recommendation on a 3-2 vote. She said the applicant did not believe more
      than the proposed 207 parking stalls would be needed.

6.2   Paxton Guymon, representing the applicant, said the original concept was for
      two 8,000 square-foot floors in the two-story structure with the potential for
      two events at a time. He said the applicant had decided, with experience, that
      only one event should be held in the facility at a time. Mr. Guymon said the
      applicant believed the 20 Geo-grass paver parking spaces would not be
      necessary considering the additional asphalt parking spaces included during
      the construction process. He said the original traffic study stated 193 parking
      spaces would be needed, and the current proposal was for 207 total parking
      stalls.

      Mr. Guymon said a total of 52 events had been hosted at Siempre Event Center
      with zero parking problems, except for one recent event when vehicles parked
      on Mike Weir Drive. He said the applicant did not anticipate that happening
      more than three or four times a year and did not believe such a rare
      occurrence would justify providing 20 additional Geo-grass parking stalls. Mr.
      Guymon emphasized that the proposed amendment to the contract would
      commit the Event Center to one event at a time. He commented that Siempre
      Event Center had significantly more asphalted parking than two similar event
      centers in Draper.

6.3   Mayor Walker opened a public hearing.

6.4   Shannon Sandberg, Draper resident, said her backyard was adjacent to the
      Siempre Event Center. She said parking was already a huge concern and
      pointed out that the existing parking stalls were shared with the golf course.
      She said she was grateful for the commitment to hold only one event per night.
      Ms. Sandberg spoke of the noise resulting from events and said she had no

                                                                         Page 3 of 7
      peace in her home. She stated that overflow parking on Mike Weir was a safety
      issue.

6.5   Marvin Armstrong, Draper resident, said he lived just east of the Siempre Event
      Center. He spoke of the safety hazard with event overflow parking on Mike
      Weir Drive. Mr. Armstrong said he hoped the Council would listen to their
      concerns as neighbors and citizens.

6.6   Mayor Walker closed the public hearing.

6.7   Mr. Guymon commented that Siempre Event Center had been sound tested,
      and found in compliance with the Noise Ordinance. He mentioned that golf
      course events had occasionally resulted in overflow parking on the street
      during the day without event center involvement. Mr. Guymon said the parking
      study that recommended 193 parking stalls took parking demands for both
      the golf course and the event center into account. He pointed out that Geo-
      grass paver parking stalls could not be used in winter months.

6.7   Councilmember T. Lowery said she recollected that when the Development
      Agreement was approved, it was very clear there would be no resultant
      parking along Mike Weir Drive. Ms. Jastremsky agreed the discussion occurred,
      but no such requirement was included in the Development Agreement.

6.8   Councilmember F. Lowry said it was his recollection that the Development
      Agreement was approved based on the requirement that the additional 20
      stalls would be provided. He commented that the Siempre Event Center had
      been successful and was a great addition to the community, which
      emphasized to him the importance of providing the additional parking stalls.
      Councilmember Lowry pointed out that fewer parking stalls would be used by
      golfers in winter months when the additional Geo-grass paver stalls would not
      be available.

6.9   Responding to a question from Councilmember F. Lowry, Siempre Event
      Center owner Golden Holt said the Noise Ordinance was administered by the
      County. He said the Event Center owned a decibel meter and monitored each
      event. Mr. Holt said events have not gone over the legal decibel limit since
      monitoring started.




                                                                         Page 4 of 7
6.10   Councilmember T. Lowery moved to deny Ordinance #1558. Councilmember
       Roberts seconded the motion.

6.11   Councilmember T. Lowery said she appreciated the beautiful event center, but
       a commitment was made to the neighbors that the event center would have
       the least negative impact possible. She said she wanted to honor the
       commitment to the community. Councilmember Roberts expressed
       agreement.

6.12   A roll call vote was taken. The motion passed unanimously.

                                      Yes     No      Absent
        Councilmember Green           X
        Councilmember T. Lowery       X
        Councilmember F. Lowry        X
        Councilmember Roberts         X
        Councilmember Vawdrey         X

7.0    Public Hearing: Ordinance #1557, an Ordinance approving the Shipp Barn 1st
       Amendment Development Agreement for approximately 2.97 acres of
       property located at 570 East Stokes Avenue within Draper City.

7.1    Planning Manager Jennifer Jastremsky explained the request to eliminate one
       planned lot, and allow the existing house on Stokes Avenue to be a detached
       accessory dwelling unit located in front of a new home at the rear of the
       property. The time allowed to obtain a Minor Subdivision and complete public
       improvements would be extended to October 15, 2023. Ms. Jastremsky said
       the Planning Commission forwarded a positive recommendation on a 4-1 vote.
       She explained that the current Code required ADUs to be located at the rear
       of the property behind a primary dwelling. The proposed Development
       Agreement Amendment would allow an ADU in the front of the property.

7.2    Chase Andrizzi, representing the applicant, emphasized that the proposal
       would only affect the western lot of the development. He said the current
       proposal would allow better preservation of the historic feel of the existing
       home by preserving trees and allowing access to the new home from the
       existing driveway.




                                                                        Page 5 of 7
7.3   Mayor Walker opened a public hearing. Seeing that no one was present to
      make a comment, Mayor Walker closed the public hearing.

7.4   Councilmember T. Lowery moved to approve                     Ordinance   #1557.
      Councilmember Vawdrey seconded the motion.

7.5   Councilmember T. Lowery said she appreciated the lengths to which the
      applicant had gone to preserve the historic home. Councilmember F. Lowry
      said he appreciated the applicant’s desire to preserve the historic home.

7.6   A roll call vote was taken. The motion passed unanimously.

                                      Yes     No      Absent
       Councilmember Green            X
       Councilmember T. Lowery        X
       Councilmember F. Lowry         X
       Councilmember Roberts          X
       Councilmember Vawdrey          X

8.0   Public Hearing: Ordinances #1555 and #1556, an Ordinance amending the
      official Land Use Map of Draper City for approximately 2.44 acres of property
      from Neighborhood Commercial to Residential High Density, and an
      Ordinance amending the official Zoning Map of Draper City for approximately
      2.44 acres of property from the OR (Office/Residential) zone to the RM2 (Multi
      Family Residential, up to 12 du/ac) zone. Otherwise known as the Avery
      Townhomes Zoning and Land Use Map Amendments.

8.1   Ms. Jastremsky said the applicant requested the matter be continued to a date
      uncertain, with the intention to come back with a development agreement.

8.2   Councilmember Vawdrey moved to continue Ordinances #1555 and #1556 to
      a date uncertain. Councilmember Roberts seconded the motion.

8.3   A roll call vote was taken. The motion passed unanimously.

                                      Yes     No      Absent
       Councilmember Green            X
       Councilmember T. Lowery        X
       Councilmember F. Lowry         X

                                                                          Page 6 of 7
       Councilmember Roberts          X
       Councilmember Vawdrey          x

9.0   Adjournment

9.1   Councilmember T. Lowery mentioned that residents were unhappy with
      maintenance of the green fiber bin at Willow Springs Elementary School, and
      asked if a bin could be placed at Public Works. Staff responded they would
      check into options and report back.

9.2   Councilmember T. Lowery said she had heard complaints about kids driving
      motorized scooters and golf carts on trails, roads, and sidewalks, and asked if
      enforcement was possible. Chief Eining responded that golf carts were not
      allowed on public streets and sidewalks, and spoke of education efforts and
      enforcement.

9.3   The Council and staff discussed staging for a planned waterline project. Staff
      provided an update on planned road paving.

9.4   The Council received a report on the planned 2022 Draper City Fire Citizen’s
      Academy.

9.5   Councilmember Green moved to adjourn the meeting. Councilmember
      Roberts seconded the motion.

9.6   A voice vote was taken. The motion passed unanimously.

9.7   The meeting adjourned at 8:07 p.m.




                                                                         Page 7 of 7
