Coversheet
Item Coversheet MEMO To: Planning Commission
From: Todd A. Draper
CC:  Date: October 13, 2022
Re: Beacon Crest Cottages Landscape Deviation Request Comments: This application is a request for approval of a Landscape Deviation for a 0.46 acre portion of a combined development site of approximately 1.55 acres located on the north side of Pioneer Road and West of 600 E., at approximately 12374, 12382, and 12392 S. 600 E. The property is currently zoned CC (Community Commercial). The applicant is requesting that a Landscape Deviation from the requirement to provide a minimum of ten feet (10’) of landscaping around the property perimeter be approved to allow for potential future expansion of the Beacon Crest Assisted Living Facility onto adjacent property. The findings are as follows: For Approval:
1. The proposed landscape plan is consistent with the purpose of chapter 23 of the Draper City Municipal Code and any applicable master plan or ordinance;
2. The proposed landscape plan reflects a design that conforms to the requirements of chapter 23 of the Draper City Municipal Code to the greatest extent possible and offers alternative methods for addressing the landscape requirement for which a deviation is being requested.
3. The proposed landscape plan will not adversely affect neighboring property owners or residents;
4. The proposed landscape plan will not adversely affect sight distance or otherwise diminish public safety;
5. The proposed landscape deviation is justified by site constraints; and
6. The proposed landscape plan is of high quality and integrates aesthetically with the design of the primary buildings on site and established streetscape.
For Denial:
1. The proposed landscape plan is not consistent with the purpose of chapter 23 of the Draper City Municipal Code and any applicable master plan or ordinance;
2. The proposed landscape plan does not reflect a design that conforms to the requirements of chapter 23 of the Draper City Municipal Code to the greatest extent possible and/and or does not offer alternative methods for addressing the landscape requirement for which the deviation is being requested.
3. The proposed landscape plan will adversely affect neighboring property owners or residents;
4. The proposed landscape plan will adversely affect sight distance or otherwise diminish public safety;
5. The proposed landscape deviation is not justified by site constraints; and
6. The proposed landscape plan is not of high quality and does not integrate aesthetically with the design of the primary buildings on site and established streetscape.
ATTACHMENTS: Description Upload Date Type P.C. Staff Report 10/6/2022 Cover Memo