MINUTES OF THE DRAPER CITY COUNCIL MEETING HELD ON TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER
20, 2022, IN THE DRAPER CITY COUNCIL CHAMBERS, 1020 EAST PIONEER ROAD,
DRAPER, UTAH

PRESENT:            Mayor Troy K. Walker, and Councilmembers Tasha Lowery, Fred
                    Lowry, Cal Roberts, and Marsha Vawdrey

EXCUSED:            Councilmember Mike Green

STAFF PRESENT:      David Dobbins, City Manager; Fred Aegerter, Community
                    Development Director; Mike Barker, City Attorney; Kellie
                    Challburg, Chief of Staff; Scott Cooley, City Engineer; John Eining,
                    Police Chief; Bret Millburn, Assistant City Manager;
                    Malena Murray, Human Resources Director; Rhett Ogden,
                    Recreation Director; Angela Fixmer, Deputy City Recorder; Linda
                    Peterson, Communications Director; Clint Smith, Fire Chief; Jake
                    Sorensen, IT; Bob Wylie, Finance Director; Todd Draper, Planner;
                    Jennifer Jastremsky, Senior Planner; Bart Vawdrey, Assistant Fire
                    Chief; Travis DeJong, Business License Official; Jared Zacharias,
                    Assistant Finance Director
_____________________________________________________________
Study Session

1.0   Presentation: 2022 Moderate Income Housing Report

1.1   Planner Todd Draper explained requirements from the State for the 2022
      Moderate Income Housing Report, and changes that would be effective in
      2023.

2.0   Presentation: Motorized Vehicles

2.1   City Manager David Dobbins defined the following terms and explained
      current City use restrictions on streets, sidewalks, and trails: electric mobility
      devices, motor-assisted scooters, electric-assisted bikes, and golf carts. The
      Council and staff discussed citizen complaints and potential problems. Police
      Chief John Eining suggested communicating to the community that the City
      would be enforcing golf cart restrictions if the Council desired. The importance
      of being consistent was mentioned. Chief Eining said the definition or
      classification of the device/vehicle was determined by the size of the motor. A


Draper City Council DRAFT Minutes – September 20, 2022
      member of the Council emphasized the need for public education regarding
      golf carts so that the community was aware of the rules.

3.0   Council/Manager Reports

3.1   Councilmember F. Lowry asked about the possibility of adding outdoor
      lighting at the bike park.

3.2   Councilmember T. Lowery said she had received citizen requests to separate
      user groups at the Deer Ridge Off-Leash Dog Park. The area had become a
      popular mountain biking location, and dogs had been chasing bikers.

3.3   Councilmember T. Lowery mentioned a trail with drainage issues. City
      Engineer Scott Cooley said the staff was aware that a collection system
      needed to be added.

3.4   Mr. Cooley provided an update regarding the 1300 East project.

Business Session

1.0   Call to Order: Mayor Troy K. Walker

2.0   Thought/Prayer and Pledge of Allegiance

2.1   Communications Director Linda Peterson offered a prayer, and Chief Eining
      led those in attendance in the Pledge of Allegiance.

3.0   Oath of Office Ceremony for Draper City Fire

3.1   Assistant Fire Chief Bart Vawdrey thanked the Council for their continued
      support of the Fire Department.

3.2   Deputy City Recorder Angela Fixmer administered the Oath of Office for:

            Cole Caldwell       Paramedic I
            Hunter Morgan       Paramedic I
            Nick Prokopis       Firefighter II
            Dallin Kiser        Firefighter II



                                                                        Page 2 of 7
4.0   Public Comments

4.1   Lawrence Horman said he was homeless and advocated for those who were
      homeless. He said when he was last in Draper, in 2017, he had been terrified.
      Mr. Horman commented that some things had changed for the homeless
      since 2017, some for the better and some for the worse. He said involving
      homeless individuals in the Salt Lake Valley Coalition was an improvement,
      and said he understood Draper City had been participating in helping to solve
      the problems more effectively. He said he hoped to continue to see
      improvements and said he believed the County and State could be leaders in
      solutions that could spread around the country and the world.

4.2   Sarah Brinkerhoff, Manager of the Draper Library, commented that the library
      was functioning as a place to welcome everyone in the community. She said
      she believed the services offered by the library were needed more now than
      ever.

5.0   Consent Items
      a. Approval of the September 6, 2022, City Council Meeting Minutes.
      b. Approval of Resolution #22-48, a Resolution of the Draper City Council
         appointing Robert Markle to serve as the primary delegate, and Hazel
         Dunsmore to serve as an alternate delegate to the Trans Jordan Landfill
         Board of Directors.
      c. Approval of Resolution #22-49, a Resolution re-appointing Kendra Shirey
         as an alternate member to the Draper City Planning Commission.

5.1   Councilmember F. Lowry moved to approve                 the   Consent   Items.
      Councilmember Vawdrey seconded the motion.

5.2   A roll call vote was taken. The motion passed unanimously.

                                     Yes     No      Absent
       Councilmember Green                           x
       Councilmember T. Lowery       x
       Councilmember F. Lowry        x
       Councilmember Roberts         x
       Councilmember Vawdrey         x




                                                                        Page 3 of 7
6.0   Public Hearing: Ordinance #1562, an Ordinance amending the Official Zoning
      Map of Draper City for approximately 2.26 acres of property from CG (General
      Commercial) to RM2 (Multi-family Residential), located at approximately 14187
      South Bangerter Parkway within Draper City, otherwise known as the
      Residences at Draper Hills Zoning Map Amendment.

6.1   Planning Manager Jennifer Jastremsky said the applicant requested the matter
      be continued to a date uncertain.

6.2   Councilmember T. Lowery moved to continue Ordinance #1562 to a date
      uncertain. Councilmember Vawdrey seconded the motion.

6.3   A roll call vote was taken. The motion passed unanimously.

                                     Yes     No      Absent
       Councilmember Green                           x
       Councilmember T. Lowery       X
       Councilmember F. Lowry        X
       Councilmember Roberts         X
       Councilmember Vawdrey         X

7.0   Public Hearing: Providing Local Consent for an Off-Premise Beer Alcohol
      License for Kum & Go LC

7.1   Business License Official Travis DeJong said staff found the Kum & Go LC
      location to be more than 300 feet from community locations, as required by
      the Code to be eligible for an off-premise license. The total number of off-
      premise licenses allowed in Draper City was 51, based on the 2020 population,
      and the City currently had a total of 20 off-premise licenses granted.

7.2   Mayor Walker opened a public hearing and closed the public hearing seeing
      that no one wished to comment.

7.3   Councilmember F. Lowry moved to approve the Local Consent for Off-Premise
      Beer Alcohol License for Kum & Go LC. Councilmember Roberts seconded the
      motion.

7.5   A roll call vote was taken. The motion passed unanimously.



                                                                       Page 4 of 7
                                     Yes     No      Absent
       Councilmember Green                           x
       Councilmember T. Lowery       X
       Councilmember F. Lowry        X
       Councilmember Roberts         X
       Councilmember Vawdrey         X

8.0   Public Hearing: Resolution #22-51, a Resolution amending the Adopted Budget
      of Draper City for Fiscal Year 2022-2023.

8.1   Assistant Finance Director Jared Zacharias presented the proposed Fiscal Year
      2023 First Quarter Budget Amendments.

8.2   City Manager David Dobbins spoke of donations for Fire Department items
      and presented estimated costs of park picnic benches/concrete pad and
      interpretive signs as requested by the Council.

8.3   Mayor Walker opened a public hearing and closed the public hearing seeing
      that no one wished to comment.

8.4   Mr. Dobbins explained that funding for the additional items would come from
      sales tax revenue. Councilmember F. Lowry said he believed it made sense to
      fund the concrete pad with the park picnic benches.

8.5   Councilmember T. Lowery moved to approve Resolution #22-51, adding the
      three items presented by Mr. Dobbins. Councilmember Vawdrey seconded the
      motion.

8.6   A roll call vote was taken. The motion passed unanimously.

                                     Yes     No      Absent
       Councilmember Green                           x
       Councilmember T. Lowery       X
       Councilmember F. Lowry        X
       Councilmember Roberts         X
       Councilmember Vawdrey         x




                                                                       Page 5 of 7
9.0   Public Hearing: Ordinance #1561, an Ordinance of Draper City amending the
      text of Chapter 4 of the Draper City General Plan regarding Housing and the
      Moderate Income Housing Plan for the City.

9.1   Planner Todd Draper explained that House Bill 462 required the City to update
      the Moderate Income Housing Plan elements within the General Plan before
      October 1, 2022. The City was required to choose from a list of pre-selected
      strategies (five strategies, or six for priority transportation funding
      consideration) and prepare implementation plans. He described public
      involvement efforts.

9.2   Mr. Draper presented a draft of a Housing Study completed by Zions Public
      Finance and pointed out possible discrepancies that needed to be updated.

9.3   Mr. Draper presented six strategies recommended by the Planning
      Commission. As a city with a fixed public transit station, two of the strategies
      were required to involve a station area plan.

      ** Councilmember Vawdrey left the meeting at 7:50 p.m. and returned at 7:56
      p.m.

9.4   Responding to a question from Mayor Walker, Mr. Draper explained that
      according to the Zions Public Finance Housing Study, Draper City was short
      5,000 affordable housing units. The Council and staff discussed analysis
      differences, market blocks to developing affordable, dense housing in Draper,
      and the desire to receive consideration or credit from the State for density
      “entitled” by the City.

9.7   Mayor Walker opened a public hearing and closed the public hearing seeing
      that no one wished to comment.

9.8   Councilmember F. Lowry moved to approve                    Ordinance    #1561.
      Councilmember T. Lowery seconded the motion.

9.9   A roll call vote was taken. The motion passed unanimously.

                                      Yes     No       Absent
       Councilmember Green                             x
       Councilmember T. Lowery        X

                                                                          Page 6 of 7
        Councilmember F. Lowry        X
        Councilmember Roberts         X
        Councilmember Vawdrey         X

10.0   Recess to a Draper City Community Reinvestment Agency Meeting

10.1   Councilmember T. Lowery moved to recess to a Draper City Community
       Reinvestment Agency Meeting. Councilmember Vawdrey seconded the
       motion.

10.2   A roll call vote was taken. The motion passed unanimously.

                                      Yes    No      Absent
        Councilmember Green                          x
        Councilmember T. Lowery       X
        Councilmember F. Lowry        X
        Councilmember Roberts         X
        Councilmember Vawdrey         X

10.3   The Council reconvened at 8:22 p.m.

11.0   Adjournment

11.1   Councilmember F. Lowry moved to adjourn the meeting.

11.2   A voice vote was taken. The motion passed unanimously.

11.3   The meeting adjourned at 8:23 p.m.




                                                                       Page 7 of 7
