Coversheet
Item Coversheet MEMO To: Planning Commission
From: Jonathan Concidine
CC:  Date: September 22, 2022
Re: Patterson Property - Zoning Map Amendment Request Comments: This application is a request for approval of a Zoning Map Amendment for approximately 3.3 acres located on the east side of 1300 E., at approximately 13101 S. Boulter St. and 13103 S. Boulter St. The property is currently zoned RA1. The applicant is requesting that a Zoning Map Amendment be approved to allow for the subdivision of the property into smaller lots that can then be developed into single family residences. The findings are as follows: For approval:
1.The proposed amendment is consistent with the goals, objectives and policies of the city's general plan.
2.  The proposed amendment is harmonious with the overall character of existing development in the vicinity of the subject property.
3.The proposed amendment is consistent with the standards of any applicable overlay zone;
4.The proposed amendment should not adversely affect adjacent property.
5.The facilities and services intended to serve the subject property, including, but not limited to, roadways, parks and recreation facilities, police and fire protection, schools, stormwater drainage systems, water supplies, and wastewater and refuse collection, are adequate.
6.The proposed land use map amendment complies with DCMC Sections 9-2-020(F) and 9-5-060(D).
For denial:
1.The proposed amendment is not consistent with goals, objectives and policies of the city's general plan.
2.The proposed amendment is not harmonious with the overall character of existing development in the vicinity of the subject property.
3.The proposed amendment is not consistent with the standards of any applicable overlay zone.
4.The proposed amendment is likely to adversely affect adjacent property.
5.The facilities and services intended to serve the subject property, including, but not limited to, roadways, parks and recreation facilities, police and fire protection, schools, stormwater drainage systems, water supplies, and wastewater and refuse collection, are inadequate.
6.The proposed land use map amendment does not comply with DCMC Sections 9-2-020(F) and 9-5-060(D). ATTACHMENTS: Description Upload Date Type PC Staff Report 9/16/2022 Cover Memo