                                 Development Review Committee
                                      1020 East Pioneer Road
                                        Draper, UT 84020
                                                 April 6, 2022

To:              Draper City Planning Commission
                 Business Date: April 14, 2022

From:            Development Review Committee

Prepared By: Jennifer Jastremsky, AICP, Planning Manager/Zoning Administrator
             Planning Division
             Community Development Department
             801-576-6328, jennifer.jastremsky@draperutah.gov

Re:     My Back yard Playschool – Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit Request
        Application No.: USE-61-2022
        Applicant:        Sasha Johnson
        Project Location: 621 East Hourglass Cir.
        Current Zoning: RA2 (Residential Agricultural, 20,000 square foot lot minimum)
                          Zone
        Acreage:          0.4 Acres (Approximately 17,424 ft2)
        Request:          Request for approval of a Home Occupation Conditional Use
                          Permit in the RA2 zone regarding a home based preschool.



BACKGROUND AND SUMMARY
This application is a request for approval of a Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit for
approximately 0.4 acres located on the north side of Hourglass Cir, at approximately 621
East Hourglass Cir. (Exhibit B). The property is currently zoned RA2. The applicant is
requesting that a Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit be approved in order to run a
nature based outdoor preschool out of her home.

The property is Lot 7A of the Lone Peak Meadows Subdivision. The home on the property
was built in 1998.



ANALYSIS

General Plan and Zoning. The Land Use Map of the General Plan calls for the Residential



My Back yard Playschool                                             App. # USE-61-2022
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit Request        1
Medium Density land use designation for the subject property (Exhibit C). This category is
characterized as follows:




The property has been assigned the RA2 zoning classification, supporting approximately
two dwelling unit per acre (Exhibit D). According to Draper City Municipal Code (DCMC)
Section 9-8-020 the purpose of the RA2 zone is to “foster low density development with little
impact on its surroundings and municipal services; to generally preserve the character of the
City’s semi-rural areas; and to promote and preserve conditions favorable to large-lot family life,
including the keeping of limited numbers of animals and fowl. This zone is intended to promote
a combination of retail and service facilities which, in character and scale, meet day to day
needs of nearby residents.” The property is surrounded by the RA2 zone.

Proposed Use. The applicant is proposing a nature based outdoor preschool (Exhibit G). The
school will be for kids who are 3-6 years old and will take place within the back yard of the
property (Exhibit E). Classes will have up to 10 students and be from noon to 3pm 2-3 days
a week. The class schedule will follow the Canyons School District schedule. The applicant
has provided a drop off and pick up plan (Exhibit F). Parents will drop off kids on the
parkstrip next to the applicant’s home. The driveway will be available for anyone who
needs to get out and talk to the applicant.




My Back yard Playschool                                                   App. # USE-61-2022
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit Request   2
Home Occupation. The DCMC Section 9-34-040 outlines development standards applicable
to all home occupations. Those criteria, along with information specific to the subject
request, are as follows:

        A. Ownership: The home occupation shall be owned and operated by a person who
            resides in the dwelling where the home occupation is located. Such person shall be
            the primary provider of the labor, work, or service provided in the home occupation.

             The applicant lives within the home and will be the primary provider for the
             business.

        B. Business License: A business license for the home occupation shall be obtained from
            and continually maintained with the city pursuant to title 6, chapter 11 of this code.

             The applicant will obtain a business license as required by Title 6.

        C. Employees: Members of the family of the owner who reside in the dwelling may be
            employed in the home occupation. Nonfamily or nonresident employees shall be
            limited to one person.

             There are no proposed employees beyond the applicant.

        D. Inspection: All facilities shall comply with fire, building, plumbing, electrical and all
            other city, county, state and federal codes. Inspections during reasonable hours by
            city officials may occur as necessary to assure compliance with regulations.

             Inspections may be required through the business license process. The applicant
             will comply as needed.

        E. Inventory: No stock in trade, inventory, or other merchandise to exceed two hundred
            fifty (250) square feet shall be kept on the premises. No outside storage is allowed.

             There will be minimal inventory associated with this business, including lesson
             plans and toys.

        F. Modification Of Structures Or Yards: There shall be no visible evidence from the
            exterior of a dwelling that it is being used for any other purpose than that of a
            dwelling. No activities shall be carried on outside the dwelling in the yard for the
            benefit of or incidental to the home occupation. No front yard area shall be altered to
            provide parking required for a home occupation.




My Back yard Playschool                                                      App. # USE-61-2022
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit Request     3
             The business will primarily be located outside of the home in the back yard. The
             students will be learning a nature based program utilizing the environment in
             the back yard.

        G. Nuisance: Tools, items, equipment, or activities conducted within the dwelling which is
            offensive or noxious by reason of the emission of odor, smoke, gas, vibration,
            magnetic interference, or noise shall be prohibited.

             The business may result in some noise from the students playing in the back
             yard. This is a noise that is customarily found within a residential neighborhood.

        H. Secondary Use: The home occupation shall be clearly incidental and secondary to the
            primary use of the dwelling for residential purposes. The home occupation shall not
            disrupt the normal residential character of the neighborhood in which the residence
            is located. Not more than twenty five percent (25%) of the dwelling unit shall be used
            for the home occupation.

             The business will only utilize a restroom inside the home. The rest of the
             business activities will be located outside the home. The business will remain
             secondary to the use of the home as a residence.

        I. Signs: All signage in a residential area must comply with chapter 26, "Signs", of this title.

             No signage is proposed for the business.

        J. Traffic, Parking, And Access: No home occupation use shall generate pedestrian,
             parking, or vehicular traffic in excess of that customarily associated with the zone in
             which the use is located. All parking shall be provided and maintained on site with
             adequate provision for drop off traffic.

             The business will generate traffic during the drop off and pick up of students.
             The applicant has provided a plan to provide orderly drop off and pick up in
             order to reduce the impact on neighboring properties. Parents will utilize a
             parkstrip adjacent to the house that has been is landscaped with gravel.

             The applicant’s property contains a three-car driveway. This driveway will remain
             available for any parents that need to park and get out of the car. This will
             reduce the cars on the street and prevent any parking on the street.

        K. Vehicles: Other than the business owner's personal transportation, there shall be no
            vehicles or equipment on the property associated with the home occupation which
            would not normally be found at a residence. No signage for the home occupation
            shall be allowed on vehicles.



My Back yard Playschool                                                      App. # USE-61-2022
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit Request     4
             No business vehicles are plans for the business.

        L. Yards: Yards surrounding the dwelling and accessory buildings shall not be used for
            any activities or storage of any materials associated with the home occupation.

             The applicant will be utilizing the back yard area for the preschool.

        M. Customers: No customers allowed. Children accessing a limited daycare or limited
           preschool facility shall not be considered customers.

             This business is a preschool and will have up to 10 students, 2-3 days a week.

        N. Utility Demand: The home occupation shall not cause a demand for public utilities in
            excess of that necessarily and customarily provided for residential uses.

             It is not expected that the business will create a demand for utilities outside that
             normally found in a residential area.

        O. Main Structure: The home occupations shall be conducted, located, and contained
           within the primary structure on the property.

             The business will not be located within the home, but will take place within the
             back yard of the property.

        P. Single-Family And Multiple-Family Dwellings: Home occupations listed as permitted or
            conditional within this title may be permitted in a single-family or a multiple-family
            dwelling, subject to the standards found within this section and section 9-34-060 of
            this chapter. Businesses within multiple-family dwellings shall provide an approval
            letter from the respective homeowners' association, or management company in the
            case of apartments, if the business proposes any employees, customers or business
            vehicles.

             The property is a single-family home.

        Q. Licensure: Any home occupation involving childcare shall comply with all applicable
            state and local laws and regulations regarding residential childcare, including, but
            not limited to, provisions of the Utah child care licensing act, as set forth in Utah
            Code Annotated section 26-39-101 et seq., as amended, and the residential certificate
            childcare standards as set forth in the Utah administrative code section R430-50-1 et
            seq., as amended. In addition, cottage food production operations are regulated and
            inspected by the Utah department of agriculture. Any food related home occupation
            under their jurisdiction must comply with these regulations.



My Back yard Playschool                                                   App. # USE-61-2022
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit Request   5
             The applicant will obtain any state, county, and city licenses required to run the
             preschool. This will be verified during the City business license process.

Criteria For Approval.
The criteria for review and potential approval of a conditional use permit request is found
in Section 9-5-080(E) of the DCMC. This section depicts the standard of review for such
requests as:

        E. Approval Standards: The standards of this subsection shall apply to the issuance of a
            conditional use permit:
         1. A conditional use permit may be issued for a use to be located within a zone where
            the particular conditional use is allowed by the use regulations of the zone.
         2. Reasonable conditions may be imposed as necessary to substantially mitigate
            reasonably anticipated detrimental effects of the proposed use. These conditions may
            include conditions concerning use, construction, character, location, landscaping,
            screening, parking, hours of operation, and other matters relating to the purposes
            and objectives of this section. Such conditions shall be expressly set forth in the
            motion authorizing the conditional use permit.
         3. If the reasonably anticipated detrimental effects of a proposed conditional use
            cannot be substantially mitigated by the imposition of reasonable conditions to
            achieve compliance with applicable standards, the conditional use may be denied.
         4. The following factors shall be reviewed and considered in determining whether a
            conditional use permit application should be approved, approved with conditions, or
            denied because reasonable conditions cannot be imposed to achieve compliance with
            applicable standards:
              a. The harmony and compliance of the proposed use with the objectives and
                  requirements of the city's general plan and this title;
              b. The suitability of the specific property for the proposed use;
              c. Whether the proposed use or facility may be injurious to potential or existing
                  development in the vicinity;
              d. The economic impact of the proposed facility or use on the surrounding area;
              e. The aesthetic impact of the proposed facility or use on the surrounding area;
              f. The safeguards proposed or provided to ensure adequate utilities, transportation
                  access, drainage, parking, loading space, lighting, screening, landscaping, open
                  space, fire protection, and pedestrian and vehicular circulation;
              g. The safeguards provided or proposed to prevent noxious or offensive emissions
                  such as noise, glare, dust, pollutants and odor from the proposed facility or use;
                  and
              h. The impact of the proposed facility or use on the health, safety, and welfare of the
                  city, the area, and persons owning or leasing property in the area.
         5. The planning commission may request additional information as may be reasonably
            needed to determine whether the requirements of this subsection E can be met.



My Back yard Playschool                                                    App. # USE-61-2022
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit Request    6
REVIEWS

Planning Division Review. The Draper City Planning Division has completed their review of
the Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit submission. Comments from this division, if
any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Engineering and Public Works Divisions Review. The Draper City Engineering and Public
Works Divisions have completed their reviews of the v submission. Comments from these
divisions, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Building Division Review. The Draper City Building Division has completed their review of the
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit submission. Comments from this division, if any,
can be found in Exhibit A.

Fire Division Review. The Draper City Fire Marshal has completed his review of the Home
Occupation Conditional Use Permit submission. Comments from this division, if any, can be
found in Exhibit A.

Noticing. Notice has been properly issued in the manner outlined in the City and State
Codes.



STAFF RECOMMENDATION

Staff recommends that the Planning Commission review the request, receive public
comment, and make a decision based on the findings listed below and the criteria for
approval, or denial, as listed within the staff report.

If the Planning Commission decides to approve the request, staff recommends they include
the following conditions of approval:

        1.       That all requirements of the Draper City Engineering, Public Works, Building,
                 Planning, and Fire Divisions are satisfied throughout the development of the
                 site and the construction of all buildings on the site, including permitting.
        2.       The home occupation is required to maintain approval and adequate
                 licensure from any and all necessary agencies.
        3.       That the applicant follow the approved drop off and pick up plan found in
                 Exhibit F of this report.
        4.       That the driveway remain available for those who need to park and get out of
                 the car.

The findings for approval as are follows:




My Back yard Playschool                                               App. # USE-61-2022
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit Request   7
        1.       Reasonable mitigation measures can be placed on the conditional use to
                 alleviate anticipated detrimental effects.

The findings for denial as are follows:

        1.       Reasonable mitigation measures cannot be placed on the conditional use to
                 alleviate anticipated detrimental effects.



MODEL MOTIONS

Sample Motion for Approval – I move that we approve for the Home Occupation
Conditional Use Permit, as requested by Sasha Johnson for My Back yard Playschool,
application USE-61-2022, based on the findings and subject to the conditions listed in the
Staff Report dated April 6, 2022.

Sample Motion for Modified Approval– I move that we approve the Home Occupation
Conditional Use Permit, as requested by Sasha Johnson for My Back yard Playschool,
application USE-61-2022, based on the findings and subject to the conditions listed in the
Staff Report dated April 6, 2022 and as modified by the findings and conditions below:

        1. List any additional findings and conditions…

Sample Motion for Denial – I move that we deny the Home Occupation Conditional Use
Permit, as requested by Sasha Johnson for My Back yard Playschool, application USE-61-
2022, based on the findings listed in the Staff Report dated April 6, 2022.




My Back yard Playschool                                              App. # USE-61-2022
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit Request   8
                  DEVELOPMENT REVIEW COMMITTEE ACKNOWLEDGEMENT

We, the undersigned, as duly appointed members of the Draper City Development Review
Committee, do acknowledge that the application which provides the subject for this staff
report has been reviewed by the Committee and has been found to be appropriate for
review by the Draper City Planning Commission and/or City Council.



                                                                                                          Digitally signed by Jennifer Jastremsky
                                                                                                          DN: C=US,

                                                                           Jennifer Jastremsky E=jennifer.jastremsky@draperutah.gov,
                                                                                               O=Planning Division, OU=Draper City,

__________________________________                                         __________________________________
                                                                                                          CN=Jennifer Jastremsky
                                                                                                          Date: 2022.04.07 13:10:40-06'00'


Draper City Public Works Department                                        Draper City Planning Division



                                                                            Mike Barker
                      Digitally signed by Don Buckley
                      DN: C=US, E=don.buckley@draper.ut.us, O=Draper                                 Digitally signed by Mike Barker

Don Buckley
__________________________________
                      City Fire Department, OU=Fire Marshal, CN=Don
                      Buckley
                      Date: 2022.04.07 16:45:50-06'00'                     __________________________________
                                                                                                     Date: 2022.04.07 13:44:59 -06'00'



Draper City Fire Department                                                Draper City Legal Counsel


                      Digitally signed by Keith Collier
                      DN: C=US, E=keith.collier@draperutah.gov,

 Keith Collier
__________________________________
                      O=Draper City, OU=Building Official, CN=Keith
                      Collier
                      Date: 2022.04.08 07:23:31-06'00'



Draper City Building Division




My Back yard Playschool                                                                                     App. # USE-61-2022
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit Request                         9
                                      EXHIBIT A
                                 DEPARTMENT REVIEWS

REVIEWS ARE NOT MEANT TO BE AN ALL INCLUSIVE LIST OF POSSIBLE COMMENTS OR
CONDITIONS.

Engineering and Public Works Divisions Review.

   1. The present and future requirements for transportation, traffic, water, sewer, and other
      utilities for the subject site do not appear to be detrimentally impacted as described.
      Given the location and proposed use, the use is not anticipated to generate a significant
      impact to water, sewer, or other utilities.
   2. The number of trips generated by clients may have a detrimental impact to traffic in
      the area, during drop-off and pickup times. Applicant has indicated up to 10 preschool
      students will visit the residence.
   3. The applicant provided a pickup and drop-off plan. This plan is acceptable with three
      conditions: a.) All waiting vehicles are on one side of street, b.) no neighbor driveways
      are blocked, c.) any parking (outside from pickup and drop-off periods) will be have
      to be at the applicant’s driveway. “Parking” at the local street is anticipated with the
      proposed use during pickup time, as they may be vehicles parked on Hourglass Circle
      several minutes before students are dismissed from class. Additionally, it is not stated
      if the parking on the driveway is used for employees only. Regardless, it is
      recommended for employees to park onsite, especially during winter months when
      there may be excessive snow on the street and where on-street parking may be a
      safety issue.
   4. Depending how preschool students behave, there may be noise concerns. Regardless, the
      proposed use does not appear detrimental to the health, safety, or general welfare of the
      persons residing or working in the vicinity, or injurious to the property or improvements
      in the vicinity.

Fire Division Review.

       Family home day cares are categorized into two different types, family home day
       care type I child care and family home day care type ii child care. This particular use
       would be considered a family home day care type ii which means services provided
       for nine to sixteen clients in a home with sufficient staffing. This would also include
       a home that is licensed by the department of health as family child care. The
       following is what will be required.

   1. On each floor occupied by clients there shall be two separate means of egress,
      arranged so that if one is blocked the other will be available.
   2. Any rooms in family day care units that are provided for clients to sleep or nap, shall
    have at least one window or door approved for emergency escape.
3. If located in a basement or on the second story, shall be provided with two means
    of egress, one of which shall discharge directly to the outside.
4. Family day care units shall not be located on the second story, unless there is at
    least one exit that leads directly to the outside.
5. There shall be single station interconnected smoke detectors in good working
    condition on each level occupied by the clients. Battery operated smoke detectors
    shall be permitted if the facility demonstrates testing, maintenance, and battery
    replacement to insure continued operation of the smoke detectors.
6. Fire drills shall be conducted monthly and shall include the complete evacuation
    from the building of all clients and staff. At least quarterly the fire drill shall include
    the actual evacuation using the escape or rescue window, if one is used for one of
    the required means of egress.
7. Heating equipment in spaces occupied by children shall be provided with partitions,
    screens, or other means to protect children from hot surfaces and open flames.
8. A fire escape plan shall be completed and posted in a conspicuous place. All staff
    shall be trained on the fire escape plans and procedures.
9. There shall be a sufficient number of staff to client ratios to allow safe and orderly
    evacuation in case of fire.
10. 2a-10bc fire extinguishers required. The extinguisher needs to be a serviceable type
    meaning metal head and metal neck. Extinguishers need to be located in a
    conspicuous location where they will be readily accessible and immediately
    available for use. Placed on every level of the home. If in cabinet or not the
    extinguisher or cabinet needs to be mounted so that the top is not more than five
    (5) feet above the floor.
11. Visible addressing required. New and existing buildings shall have approved address
    numbers plainly legible and visible from the street fronting the property. These
    numbers shall contrast with their background.
 EXHIBIT B
AERIAL MAP
  EXHIBIT C
LAND USE MAP
 EXHIBIT D
ZONING MAP
EXHIBIT E
SITE PLAN
        EXHIBIT F
DROP OFF AND PICK UP PLAN
Drop off, Pickup and Parking
If parents go to the end of the street and loop around, we can load/unload directly onto my
property. Our driveway has room for any parents who would require extra time
loading/unloading.
       EXHIBIT G
APPLICANT QUESTIONAIRE
Overview of Proposed Use

“My Backyard Playschool” will be a nature and play based preschool where
children will get dirty, and be uncomfortably cold and hot. In doing this we will be
building resilience, strengthening muscles and bones, developing fine and gross
motor skills, and maturing the vestibular and proprioceptive senses; foundational
to personal and academic growth. We will do this through play, stories, songs,
and embarking on quests- all outdoors. My vision is part forest school, part
Charlotte Mason, part Well Educated Heart, and part occupational therapy. We
will sneak in some academics. Phonemic awareness, patterns, intro to nature
journaling, read-a-louds, and number sense will be covered, but it will not be our
focus. At least half the time will be unstructured free play. The other half will
include lessons on monthly nature topics (stars, birds, trees, gardening, etc.),
singing, telling stories, read-a-louds, observing nature at a “sit spot”, then
reporting what was noticed. (This will morph into nature journaling as we
progress through the year.) We will play physical games that get the kids running
and jumping, and word games that develop pre-reading skills. We will also do
activities that encourage fine motor skills, like threading cranberries, drawing with
chalk or painting with water on the sidewalk. I will be sharing ideas to inspire
creative play and have open ended challenges or “quests” that encourage
physical development. I have a BS from BYU in Elementary Education. My
experience includes running a preschool coop in California, being a public-school
teacher, private math and reading tutor, and most recently, a homeschool mom.


Statement of Compliance with Standards; preschool, limited

Classes will be for children ages 3 to 6. I will limit class size to no more than 10
students. Classes will be held following the Canyons School District academic
calendar and run from noon to 3pm, 2 to 3 days a week. Children will have access
to my indoor bathroom.
Deviations Requested

9-34-040: DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS; PERMITTED USE

F. Modification Of Structures Or Yards: There shall be no visible evidence from the exterior of a
dwelling that it is being used for any other purpose than that of a dwelling. No activities shall be
carried on outside the dwelling in the yard for the benefit of or incidental to the home
occupation. No front yard area shall be altered to provide parking required for a home
occupation. (Ord. 1132, 2-17-2015)



J. Traffic, Parking, And Access: No home occupation use shall generate pedestrian, parking,
or vehicular traffic in excess of that customarily associated with the zone in which the use is
located. All parking shall be provided and maintained on site with adequate provision for drop off
traffic.



L. Yards: Yards surrounding the dwelling and accessory buildings shall not be used for any
activities or storage of any materials associated with the home occupation.



O. Main Structure: The home occupations shall be conducted, located, and contained within
the primary structure on the property. (Ord. 909, 7-21-2009)



The primary purpose of my preschool is to provide children with time outdoors, in nature, in a
supervised environment. There is significant evidence that lack of outdoor time in childhood is leading
to developmental deficiencies. (“The Nature Fix”, “Last Child in the Woods”, “There’s No Such Thing as
Bad Weather”.) I would like to promote academic readiness through nature and play. We will only enter
the home if it is unsafe outside, for example, lightening or extreme weather. I do not want to add any
structures or signage that would give anyone the impression that a preschool is run in our backyard. It is
already set up how we want it. As we live on a street with many children and grandchildren residing or
visiting, a backyard full of children playing retains the character of our street.



There will be a little more traffic than usual at drop off and pick up times. I’ve made a plan that will not
block any driveways and should facilitate quick and safe drop offs and pick ups.
