                                   Development Review Committee
                                       1020 East Pioneer Road
                                         Draper, Utah 84020


                                           STAFF REPORT
                                              May 18, 2020

To:                 Draper City Planning Commission
                    Business Date: May 28, 2020

From:               Development Review Committee

Prepared By: Travis Van Ekelenburg, Planner II
             Planning Division
             Community Development Department
             (801) 576-6522 or travis.vanekelenburg@draper.ut.us

Re:       Fairfield Inn & Suites – Site Plan Request
          Application No.:    SPR-959-2020
          Applicant:          Elizabeth Cole, representing Wadsworth Development Group
          Project Location:   Approximately 13690 South 100 East
          Current Zoning:     CO2 (Professional Office) Zone
          Acreage:            Approximately 3.05 Acres (approximately 132,858 square feet)
          Request:            Request for approval of a Site Plan in the CO2 (Professional Office) Zone
                              for a new hotel.


SUMMARY
This application is a request for approval of a Site Plan for approximately 3.05 acres located on the south
side of Bangerter Highway, at approximately 13690 S 100 E (Exhibit B). The property is currently zoned
CO2 (Professional Office) Zone (See Exhibit D). The applicant is requesting that a Site Plan be approved
to allow for the development of the currently vacant site as a hotel. The applicant is also requesting
Draper City Municipal Code deviations for building materials, height, and roofline articulation standards
(See Exhibit H).


BACKGROUND
The subject property is currently part of the Bangerter Crossing development and will be the 2nd hotel
developed in this commercial district. Bangerter Crossing has been developed in several phases since
2006, and the subject parcel is part of the final development phase.


ANALYSIS
General Plan and Zoning. The Land Use Map of the General Plan calls for the




«Project_Name»                                                                            App. # SPR-959-2020
Site Plan Request                                     1
Community/Neighborhood Commercial land use designation for the subject property (See Exhibit C).




Fairfield Inn & Suites                                                              App. # SPR-959-2020
Site Plan Request                                2
The property has been assigned the CO2 zoning classification. Draper City Municipal Code (DCMC): 9-
8-020: Zone Purpose. “The purpose of the CO zone is to provide locations primarily along arterial or
major collector streets which will accommodate offices or laboratories for professional persons and other
related uses. The zone is intended to provide availability of professional services conveniently to all
neighborhoods in the city. Two (2) CO zones are provided: CO1 and CO2. CO1 zones are intended to
allow office and related uses on relatively small tracts of land so they can be conveniently and compatibly
located adjacent to residential areas. CO2 zones allow larger office and related use developments
adjacent to commercial areas and away from residential areas. Typical uses in this zone include offices
for doctors, dentists, accountants, and other similar professions, medical and dental laboratories, and
pharmacies.”

Site Plan Layout. The proposed hotel will be to the north of an existing hotel and will be placed in the
center of the property surrounded by landscaping, with outside parking surrounding the building. The site
will be accessed off of 13800 South and 100 East. The property to the east of the subject property is
currently under site plan review by Draper City for an office building known as the Bangerter II Office
Building. Additionally a separate plat amendment application submitted by the same applicant has been
made to adjust the common boundary line between the two properties reducing the subject property
acreage from 3.05 acres to 2.38 acres. The subject site plan application has been reviewed as a phased
site plan in a larger project. If for some reason the plat amendment were not approved, the phase
boundaries will still comply with DCMC.

Landscaping and Lot Coverage. Taking into account the proposed plat amendment and reduction in lot
size, the subject property will be reduced to 103,773 square feet in size. With 25,183 square feet of
landscaping, to the property will have a total landscape percentage of 24%. The DCMC requires a


Fairfield Inn & Suites                                                                    App. # SPR-959-2020
Site Plan Request                                   3
minimum of 20% overall landscaping within the CO2 zone. The building has a footprint area of 18,329
square feet and only encompasses 18% of the site. The DCMC allows for a maximum lot coverage for
buildings of 50%. The landscaping will include heavy landscaping around the building with large trees to
the north of the property, and pedestrian amenities surrounding the design to include a patio/BBQ area for
guests staying at the hotel. The proposal meets minimum requirements for landscaping and coverage.

Parking. DCMC Chapter 9-25 states parking requirements for developments. The applicant is required
by DCMC Table 9-25-1 to have one space per room for the hotel land use. The applicant is required to
have 131 parking spaces and will have 150 spaces with the proposed site plan, including 141 standard
stalls, 4 electric stalls, and 5 ADA accessible stalls.

Architecture. Fairfield Inn & Suites by Marriot has a specific corporate look to their hotels and given the
size of hotel rooms the building has to be designed to accommodate specific room sizes. The building
does articulate vertically and horizontally but the design in two sections exceeds length limitations set in
DCMC Section 9-22-040 (D)(2), building design requirements (providing variations every 50 feet). The
applicant has submitted a deviation request for this particular requirement with an additional deviation
request for height (Exhibit H).

Additionally the applicant is requesting a deviation for building materials in regard to the south façade of
the building. That façade is short of the 75% of each building face that needs to be primary materials and
has a secondary material with higher coverage. The other three sides meet the standard required. Marriot
International has a specific standard for their aesthetics on their hotels and they have requested the
deviation in order to maintain that design aesthetic. The materials that make up the building take the
following amounts for the entire project; manufactured stone siding (5%), multi-color fiber wood and
cement panels (56%), composite metal panels (16%), and a dark EIFS (23%). The design will provide 8
different color variations to the aesthetics of the building. Each side of the building will have the same
materials, but on varying percentages per side.

The request for a building height deviation is from 45 feet maximum allowed in the CO2 zone to 55 feet
due to the information stated by the applicant in regard to height (Exhibit H.) The applicant states that it
meets criteria for a deviation and that it will match an existing hotel on the adjacent property.

Architectural Standards Modification. Chapter 22 of the DCMC makes provisions for the Planning
Commission to authorize deviations to strict compliance with the terms of the Code regarding
development design standards. Section 9-22-030 states that the Planning Commission may approve site
plans that deviate from the requirements of the design standards within Chapter 22 of the DCMC based
on making certain required findings in whole. Those findings, according to section 9-22-030(B), are that
the deviation:

1.         The project contains amenities such as pedestrian and bike connectivity in excess of what is
           required in the development code and site plan review.
2.         The overall percentage of dedicated public or private landscape and open space area exceeds the
           required amount by more than ten percent (10%).
3.         The project is a transit oriented development (TOD) and provides connectivity to a transportation
           facility.
4.         Traffic impacts on the neighborhood are lessened through programs, such as creative design,
           traffic calming measures, companywide carpool or transit pass programs.
5.         The project is an accredited LEED development.
6.         The variations are consistent with the purpose of this chapter and any applicable master plan or
           ordinance.



Fairfield Inn & Suites                                                                       App. # SPR-959-2020
Site Plan Request                                      4
7.         The project is required to create a consistent and compatible design in cases which involve
           redeveloped buildings, additions to existing buildings, minor structures added to a site, or new
           buildings within a previously approved phased project.
8.         Additional landscape plant material is provided in an amount at least ten percent (10%) more than
           the minimum required, including additional planting beds, plants, trees or a combination thereof.
9.         The building design is a specific architectural style, such as contemporary or modern, which
           utilizes facade materials differently than prescribed in subsection 9-22-040(F) of this chapter and
           is designed by a licensed architect.
10.        The amount of primary materials used for a facade is at least ten percent (10%) greater than the
           minimum required amount.

The applicant has provided a breakdown of how the site complies with the deviation standards, as
outlined in Exhibit H of this report. The applicant states that the site plan meets deviation criteria numbers
2, 6, 8, and 9 as outlined for all deviations.

Lighting. The applicant has submitted a photometric analysis for the site and will also be submitting a
revised light pole elevation that will meet proper requirements for DCMC lighting standards.

Criteria For Approval. The criteria for review and potential approval of a Site Plan request is found in
Section 9-5-090(E) of the DCMC. This section depicts the standard of review for such requests as:

      E. Standards For Approval: The following standards shall apply to the approval of a site plan:
         1.     The entire site shall be developed at one time unless a phased development plan is
                approved.
         2.     A site plan shall conform to applicable standards set forth in this title, including but not
                limited to, building heights, setbacks, access points, parking, landscaping, and building
                materials.
         3.     The proposed development plans meet the intent, goals, and objectives of the general
                plan and the purpose of the zone district in which the site is located.
         4.     The public facilities and services in the area are adequate to support the subject
                development, as required by engineering standards and specifications.
         5.     The proposed development plans comply with the engineering standards found in Titles
                7, 8, 11, 12, 16, and 18 of this code, including traffic, storm water drainage, and utilities
                concerns.


REVIEWS
Planning Division Review. The Draper City Planning Division has completed their review of the Site
Plan submission. Comments from the Division, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Engineering and Public Works Divisions Review. The Draper City Engineering and Public Works
Divisions has completed their review of the Site Plan submission. Comments from the Division, if any,
can be found in Exhibit A.

Fire Division Review. The Draper City Fire has completed their review of the Site Plan submission.
Comments from the Division, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Noticing. Notice has been properly issued in the manner outlined in the City and State Codes.




Fairfield Inn & Suites                                                                        App. # SPR-959-2020
Site Plan Request                                      5
STAFF RECOMMENDATION
Staff recommends approval of the request for a Site Plan by Elizabeth Cole, representing the Wadsworth
Development Group, application SPR-959-2020, subject to the following conditions:

           1.            That all requirements of the Draper City Engineering, Public Works, Building, Planning,
                         and Fire Divisions are satisfied throughout the development of the site and the
                         construction of all buildings on the site, including permitting.
           2.            That all requirements of the geotechnical report are satisfied throughout the development
                         of the site and the construction of all buildings on the site.
           3.            An updated lighting plan be provided in accordance with DCMC Chapter 9-20.
           4.            Once site plan has been approved, a Land Disturbance Permit is required prior to
                         construction activities onsite. Permit is obtained through the Engineering Division and is
                         required prior to Building Permit issuance.
           5.            Per DCMC Section 9-5-090(J) failure to obtain a land disturbance permit within one year
                         of approval of any site plan shall void the prior site plan approval. Prior to the expiration
                         of the one-year period, an applicant may submit a written request with the community
                         development department for a site plan extension of up to six (6) months. Approval of this
                         extension may only be granted by the Zoning Administrator or Planning Commission,
                         whichever is the approval authority outlined in this section, provided the applicant can meet
                         the requirements for extension under section 9-5-030 and demonstrate substantial action
                         toward obtaining a land disturbance permit.

The findings for approval as are follows:

           1.            The site plan shall conform to applicable and approved standards set forth in this title,
                         including but not limited to, building heights, setbacks, access points, parking,
                         landscaping, and building materials.
           2.            The proposed development plans meet the intent, goals, and objectives of the general
                         plan and the purpose of the zone district in which the site is located.
           3.            The public facilities and services in the area are adequate to support the subject
                         development, as required by engineering standards and specifications.
           4.            The proposed development plans comply with the engineering standards found in Titles
                         7, 8, 11, 12, 16, and 18 of this code, including traffic, storm water drainage, and utilities
                         concerns.
           5.            That the requested deviations comply with DCMC Section 9-22-030(b) and meet the
                         criteria for approval.

The findings for denial as are follows:

           1.            The site plan does not conform to applicable standards set forth in this title, including but
                         not limited to, building heights, setbacks, access points, parking, landscaping, and
                         building materials.
           2.            The proposed development plans do not meet the intent, goals, and objectives of the
                         general plan and the purpose of the zone district in which the site is located.
           3.            The public facilities and services in the area are not adequate to support the subject
                         development, as required by engineering standards and specifications.
           4.            The proposed development plans do not comply with the engineering standards found in
                         Titles 7, 8, 11, 12, 16, and 18 of this code, including traffic, storm water drainage, and
                         utilities concerns.
           5.            That the requested deviations do not comply with DCMC Section 9-22-030(b) and do not
                         meet the criteria for approval.


Fairfield Inn & Suites                                                                                App. # SPR-959-2020
Site Plan Request                                              6
MODEL MOTIONS
Deviations: DCMC Section 9-22-040(D) Roofline Length
Sample Motion for Approval – I move that we approve the deviation to the length of uninterrupted roof
line, as requested by Elizabeth Cole representing Wadsworth Development Group, application SPR-959-
2020, based on the findings and subject to the conditions listed in the Staff Report dated May 18, 2020.

Sample Motion for Modified Approval– I move that we approve the deviation to the length of
uninterrupted roof line, requested by Elizabeth Cole representing Wadsworth Development Group,
application SPR-959-2020, based on the findings and subject to the conditions listed in the Staff Report
dated May 18, 2020 and as modified by the findings and conditions below:

           1. List any additional findings and conditions…

Sample Motion for Denial – I move that we deny the deviation to the length of uninterrupted roof line, as
requested by Elizabeth Cole representing Wadsworth Development Group, application SPR-959-2020,
based on the findings listed in the Staff Report dated May 18, 2020.

DCMC Section 9-22-040(D) Height.
Sample Motion for Approval – I move that we approve the deviation to the maximum building height, as
requested by Elizabeth Cole representing Wadsworth Development Group, application SPR-959-2020,
based on the findings and subject to the conditions listed in the Staff Report dated May 18, 2020.

Sample Motion for Modified Approval– I move that we approve the deviation to the maximum building
height, requested by Elizabeth Cole representing Wadsworth Development Group, application SPR-959-
2020, based on the findings and subject to the conditions listed in the Staff Report dated May 18, 2020
and as modified by the findings and conditions below:

           1. List any additional findings and conditions…

Sample Motion for Denial – I move that we deny the deviation to the maximum building height, as
requested by Elizabeth Cole representing Wadsworth Development Group, application SPR-959-2020,
based on the findings listed in the Staff Report dated May 18, 2020.

DCMC Section 9-22-040(F)(3)(a) Materials.
Sample Motion for Approval – I move that we approve the deviation to Materials, as requested by
Elizabeth Cole representing Wadsworth Development Group, application SPR-959-2020, based on the
findings and subject to the conditions listed in the Staff Report dated May 18, 2020.

Sample Motion for Modified Approval– I move that we approve the deviation to Materials, requested by
Elizabeth Cole representing Wadsworth Development Group, application SPR-959-2020, based on the
findings and subject to the conditions listed in the Staff Report dated May 18, 2020 and as modified by
the findings and conditions below:

           1. List any additional findings and conditions…

Sample Motion for Denial – I move that we deny the deviation to Materials, as requested by Elizabeth
Cole representing Wadsworth Development Group, application SPR-959-2020, based on the findings
listed in the Staff Report dated May 18, 2020.

Site Plan



Fairfield Inn & Suites                                                                    App. # SPR-959-2020
Site Plan Request                                     7
Sample Motion for Approval- I move that we approve the Site Plan, as requested by Elizabeth Cole,
representing Wadsworth Development Group for Fairfield Inn & Suites, application SPR-959-2020,
based on the findings and subject to the conditions listed in the Staff Report dated May 18, 2020.

Sample Motion for Modified Approval- I move that we approve the Site Plan, as requested by Elizabeth
Cole, representing Wadsworth Development Group for Fairfield Inn & Suites, application SPR-959-2020,
based on the findings and subject to the conditions listed in the Staff Report dated May 18, 2020, and as
modified by the findings and conditions below:

           1.            List any additional findings and conditions…

Sample Motion for Denial- I move that we deny the Site Plan, as requested by Elizabeth Cole,
representing Wadsworth Development Group for Fairfield Inn & Suites, application SPR-959-2020,
based on the findings and subject to the conditions listed in the Staff Report dated May 18, 2020.




Fairfield Inn & Suites                                                                   App. # SPR-959-2020
Site Plan Request                                           8
                                          EXHIBIT A
                                     DEPARTMENT REVIEWS

REVIEWS ARE NOT MEANT TO BE AN ALL INCLUSIVE LIST OF POSSIBLE COMMENTS OR
CONDITIONS.

Planning Division Review.
   1. The applicant finalize any requirements by the DCMC and Draper City Staff.

Engineering and Public Works Divisions Review.
   1. Please submit documents as separate PDF files, not all complied into one PDF.

     2. Third party approval is required of the geotechnical report prior to site plan approval, per DCMC
        9-5-090(D)(1)(g). – Per geotechnical review dated April 1, 2020, geotechnical report is
        incomplete.

     3. Third party approval is required of the geologic hazards report, DCMC 9-19-090, prior to site plan
        approval, per DCMC 9-5-090(D)(1)(g). – Per geotechnical review dated April 1, 2020,
        geotechnical report is incomplete.

     4. Add legal description from plat as Exhibit A to Stormwater Maintenance Plan. Submit Plan and
        Agreement. Unsigned is acceptable at this time, executed copy required for Land Disturbance
        Permit.

     5. Once site plan has been approved, a Land Disturbance Permit is required prior to construction
        activities onsite. Permit is obtained through the Engineering Division and is required prior to
        Building Permit issuance. – Informational comment, no action required at this time.

     6. Any work in the public right-of-way will require an Encroachment Permit obtained through the
        Engineering Division. – Informational comment, no action required at this time.

We appreciate the opportunity to provide review the proposed site plan and provide comment. If you have any
questions, please call.

Fire Division Review.
    1. Fire Department Access is required. An unobstructed minimum road width of twenty-six (26) feet
        exclusive of the shoulders and a minimum height of thirteen (13) feet six (6) inches shall be
        required. The road must be designed and maintained to support the imposed loads of emergency
        apparatus. The surface shall be able to provide all weather driving capabilities. The road shall
        have an inside turning radius of twenty – eight (28) feet. There shall be a maximum grade of
        10%. Grades may be checked prior to building permits being issued.

     2. Hydrants and Site Access. All hydrants and a form of acceptable temporary Fire Department
        Access to the site shall be installed and APPROVED by the Fire Department prior to the issuance
        of any Building Permits. If at any time during the building phase any of the hydrants or temporary
        Fire Department Access becomes non-compliant any and all permits could be revoked.

     3. No combustible construction shall be allowed prior to hydrant installation and testing by water
        purveyor. All hydrants must be operational prior to any combustible elements being received or
        delivered on building site.
Fairfield Inn & Suites                                                                    App. # SPR-959-2020
Site Plan Request                                   10
     4. Fire Sprinklers Required. A deferred submittal for a NFPA 13 fire sprinkler shop drawings are to
        be sent via email to: Don Buckley at don.buckley@draper.ut.us. A complete set of plans, with
        manufacturer cut sheets, and hydraulic calculations. Plans must be stamped by a NICET level III
        or better in Auto Sprinkler Layout. (There needs to be a hydrant with-in a 100 feet of the FDC.)
        FDC is required to have KNOX Locking Caps. ALL FIRE PROTECTION PLANS REQUIRE
        3rd PARTY REVIEW PRIOR TO BE SUBMITTED TO THE DRAPER FIRE DEPARTMENT.

     5. Standpipes Are Required. This building may be required to have standpipes. This standpipe will
        be required to be pressure tested and a Contractor Certificate of Completion will be required to be
        filled out.

     6. Post Indicator Valve with Tamper May Be Required. If there is no designated fire riser room
        with a direct access door from the outside. There shall be either a wall mounted P.I.V (OS&Y) or
        a typical P.I.V placed a minimum distance of 40 feet from the building with a tamper switch.

     7. Low Frequency Fire Alarm Required. A deferred submittal for fire alarm shop drawings are to be
        sent via email to the following to: Don Buckley at don.buckley@draper.ut.us . A complete set of
        plans, with manufacturer cut sheets, and battery calculations. Plans must be stamped by a NICET
        level III or better in Fire Alarm Systems. ALL FIRE ALARM PLANS REQUIRE 3rd PARTY
        REVIEW PRIOR TO BE SUBMITTED TO THE DRAPER FIRE DEPARTMENT.

     8.     Emergency Responder Radio Coverage Required. Emergency responder radio coverage shall be
           provided in accordance with the IFC.

     9. Emergency Voice/Alarm Communication System May Be Required. An emergency voice/alarm
        communication system shall be provided in accordance with the IFC.

     10. Two-way communication will be required. As per Section 1009.8 in the 2018 IFC.

     11. Knox Boxes Required. Fire Department “Knox Brand” lock box to be mounted to exterior walls,
         near the main entrance and/or nearest the door serving the exterior access to the fire sprinkler
         riser room. (At a height of 5 feet to the top of the box) Lock box purchase can be arranged by the
         General Contractor. See attached information form.

   12. 2A-10BC Fire Extinguishers required. The extinguisher needs to be a serviceable type meaning
       metal head and metal neck. Extinguishers need to be located in a conspicuous location where they
       will be readily accessible and immediately available for use. Placed every 75 feet of travel. If in
       cabinet or not the extinguisher or cabinet needs to be mounted so that the top is not more than
       five (5) feet above the floor.
Notes:
       Plan approval or review shall not be construed to relieve from or lessen the responsibility of any
       person designing, owning, operating or controlling any building. Damages to persons or property
       caused by defects, fire, improper installation, or other emergency conditions that occur in or on
       the building property shall not hold the Draper City Fire Department as assuming any liability.




Fairfield Inn & Suites                                                                     App. # SPR-959-2020
Site Plan Request                                    11
                          EXHIBIT B
                         AERIAL MAP




Fairfield Inn & Suites                App. # SPR-959-2020
Site Plan Request            12
                           EXHIBIT C
                         LAND USE MAP




Fairfield Inn & Suites                  App. # SPR-959-2020
Site Plan Request             13
                          EXHIBIT D
                         ZONING MAP




Fairfield Inn & Suites                App. # SPR-959-2020
Site Plan Request            14
                         EXHIBIT E
                         SITE PLAN




Fairfield Inn & Suites               App. # SPR-959-2020
Site Plan Request           15
                                                                                                                            BANGERTER HIGHWAY

                           CALL BLUESTAKES
                           @ 1-800-662-4111 AT LEAST 48
                           HOURS PRIOR TO THE
                           COMMENCEMENT OF ANY
                           CONSTRUCTION.


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               SALT LAKE CITY
                BENCHMARK                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      45 W. 10000 S., Suite 500
    CENTER OF SECTION 6,                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Sandy, UT 84070
    T4S, R1E, SLB&M                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Phone: 801.255.0529
    BRASS CAP MONUMENT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Fax: 801.255.4449
    ELEVATION = 4465.44'

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         BANG                                                                                                  LAYTON
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ERTER                                                                                            Phone: 801.547.1100
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    H       IGHW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                AY                                                                             TOOELE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Phone: 435.843.3590
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               CEDAR CITY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Phone: 435.865.1453
                                                                                                                                  x
                                                                                                                    x
                                                                                                                        x                            x             x            x
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               RICHFIELD
                                                                                                          x                                                                                            x
                                                      x         x   x   x   x
                                                                                            x
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     x
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     x
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Phone: 435.590.0187
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               x
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               WWW.ENSIGNUTAH.COM



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            FOR:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            WADSWORTH DEVELOPMENT GROUP
                                             x




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            166 E 14000 SOUTH #210
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            DRAPER, UT 84020

                                                                                                                                                                                                       ELECTRIC   COMPACT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ELECTRIC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             COMPACT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ELECTRIC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        COMPACT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ELECTRIC   COMPACT   COMPACT   COMPACT   COMPACT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            CONTACT:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           COMPACT   COMPACT


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ELIZABETH COLE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               COMPACT




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            PHONE:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   LOT 401                                                  FAX:
                                       x




                                                                                                                                                                       UP

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            BANGERTER CROSSING LLC




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  COMPACT
                                                                                                                                                         COMPACT




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            BANGERTER CROSSING FAIRFIELD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  COMPACT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           GEN.
                                 x




                                                                                                                                                                                     EXISTING OFFICE BUILDING
                                                                                                                                                                                       13673 SOUTH 100 EAST
                                                                                PROPOSED FAIRFIELD INN AND SUITES                                                                   (NOT PART OF THIS PROJECT
                           x




                                                                                      13690 SOUTH 100 EAST




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           DRAPER CITY, UTAH 84020
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  INN AND SUITES
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            13690 SOUTH 100 EAST
                                                                                                                                          ELECTRIC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              UP




                                                                                                                                          ELECTRIC
                    x




                                                                                                                                          ELECTRIC
                                                                                                                                          ELECTRIC
              x
        x
x




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               LD BOWERMAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           INVESTEMENTS III, LLC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        EXISTING RETAIL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               DEAN     BUILDING
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     SKALLA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              129 E 13800 S




                                                                                                                                                                                     100 EAST STREET
                                                                                                                                                                                     E




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   WM

                                                                                    EXISTING TOWN PLACE SUITES
                                                                                            13690 S 100 E




                    ohp                      ohp          ohp
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            OVERALL SITE PLAN
                                                                                                                                                                            x




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            PROJECT NUMBER            PRINT DATE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            5517E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          HORIZONTAL GRAPHIC SCALE          DRAWN BY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            J ELDER
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      CHECKED BY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      B MORRIS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     30       0         15        30   60   PROJECT MANAGER
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            B MORRIS



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         C-200
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ( IN FEET )
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               HORZ: 1 inch = 30 ft.
                            EXHIBIT F
                         LANDSCAPE PLAN




Fairfield Inn & Suites                    App. # SPR-959-2020
Site Plan Request              16
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Trees
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Qty       Symbol                                    Common Name                        Botanical Name                               Plant Size

                               CALL BLUESTAKES
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             7                                                   Pine, Bosnian                      Pinus leucodermis 'Heldreichii'             6' Min.
                               @ 1-800-662-4111 AT LEAST 48
                               HOURS PRIOR TO THE
                               COMMENCEMENT OF ANY
                               CONSTRUCTION.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                COBBLE COLOR THREE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             5                                                   Spruce, Colorado Blue              Picea pungens 'Glauca'                       6' Min.
                                                                                                                    COBBLE COLOR THREE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    SALT LAKE CITY
                BENCHMARK                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              x
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              x                           x         x                   x                                                                                                                                                                           45 W. 10000 S., Suite 500
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       x
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    x
    CENTER OF SECTION 6,                                                                                                                                                                      x
                                                                                                                                                                                                                x                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Sandy, UT 84070
                                                                                                                                                                     x
    T4S, R1E, SLB&M                                                      x             x            x                     x                     x   x                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Phone: 801.255.0529
    BRASS CAP MONUMENT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             6                                                   Autumn Brilliance Serviceberry     Amerlanchier grandifolia 'Autumn Brilliance' Multi-stem         Fax: 801.255.4449
    ELEVATION = 4465.44'




                                                                  x
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    LAYTON
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Phone: 801.547.1100

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             16                                                  Mushashino Zelkova                 Zelkova serrata 'Mushashino'                 2" Cal.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    TOOELE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Phone: 435.843.3590
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               COBBLE COLOR ONE                                                                                                                                                                                                                     CEDAR CITY
                                                              x




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Phone: 435.865.1453
                                                                                                                                 COBBLE COLOR ONE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    RICHFIELD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Phone: 435.590.0187
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             9                                                   Maple, Autumn Flame                Acer rubrum 'Autumn Flame'                   2" Cal.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    WWW.ENSIGNUTAH.COM
                                                     x




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 FOR:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 WADSWORTH DEVELOPMENT GROUP
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 166 E 14000 SOUTH #210
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 DRAPER, UT 84020




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              COMPACT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   COBBLE COLOR FOUR
                                               x




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 CONTACT:
           COBBLE COLOR THREE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                7                                                   London Plane Tree                  Platanus x acerifolia 'Bloodgood'            2" Cal.         ELIZABETH COLE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 PHONE:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   4" STEEL EDGING AT                                                                                                                                                                            FAX:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   TRANSITION IN ROCK
                                                                                                                                                                                                      COBBLE COLOR ONE                                                                                                             MULCH COLORS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 BANGERTER CROSSING FAIRFIELD
                                        x




                                                                                                                       4" STEEL EDGING AT
                                                                                                                      TRANSITION IN ROCK                                 4" STEEL EDGING AT
                                                                                                                           MULCH COLORS                                  TRANSITION IN ROCK                                                                                                                                                                             LANDSCAPE DATA:
                                                                                                                                                                         MULCH COLORS

                                                                                                                                                                   COBBLE COLOR TWO                                                                                                                                                                                               ON-SITE LANDSCAPE AREA CALCULATIONS TABLE
                                                                                                                         COBBLE COLOR TWO                                                               PROPOSED BUILDING                                                           COBBLE COLOR ONE
                                  x




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    DESCRIPTION               AREA           PERCENTAGE
                                                                                                                                                        DRY RIVERBED DESIGN FEATURE.
                                                                                                                          COBBLE COLOR ONE
                                                                                                                                                        INSTALL 4" DEEP 4"-8" DIA. DECORATIVE                                                                                                                                                                            PROPOSED SOD                 0 s.q. f.t.                  0%
                                                                                                                                                        GRAY RIVER ROCK OVER WEED BARRIER.
                                                                                                                                                        PROVIDE 1'-3' BOULDERS ALONG EDGES                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 100% (25% of entire
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ROCK MULCH                   25,537 s.q. f.t.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  site)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                DRAPER CITY, UTAH 84020
                                                                                                                                                        COBBLE COLOR TWO




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       INN AND SUITES
                                                                                                                           4" STEEL EDGING AT                                                     COBBLE COLOR ONE                                                                                                                                                       TOTAL LANDSCAPING            25,537 s.q. f.t.           100%




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 13690 SOUTH 100 EAST
                           x




                                                                                                                           TRANSITION IN ROCK                                                                                                                                           4" STEEL EDGING AT
                                                                                                                           MULCH COLORS                                                                                            COBBLE COLOR FOUR                                    TRANSITION IN ROCK                                                              1.         IRRIGATED TURFGRASS SHALL NOT EXCEED 50% OF LANDSCAPE AREA PER DRAPER CITY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        MULCH COLORS                                                                               CODE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ELECTRIC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        2.         AREAS NOT PLANTED W/ SOD SHALL CONSIST OF 4" DEEP DECORATIVE ROCK. INSTALL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   OVER WEED BARRIER. W/ 4" METAL EDGING BETWEEN SOD AND MULCH.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ELECTRIC
                                                    4" STEEL EDGING AT
                                                    TRANSITION TO                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Shrubs
                  x




                                                    EXISTING SOD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Qty       Symbol                                    Common Name                        Botanical Name                               Plant Size




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ELECTRIC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             35                                                  Gro Low Sumac                      Rhus aromatica 'Gro Low'                     5 Gallon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    COBBLE COLOR FOUR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ELECTRIC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     4" STEEL EDGING AT                                                                                                                                      47                                                  Red Drift Rose                     Rosa 'Meigalpo' Red Drift                    5 Gallon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     TRANSITION IN ROCK
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     MULCH COLORS
            x




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             37                                                  Pine, Mugo                         Pinus mugo 'Compacta'                        5 Gallon

                                                                                                COBBLE COLOR FOUR
                                                                                                                                                                  DRY RIVERBED DESIGN                                                                                                                                                                                        26                                                  Tor Gold Spirea                    Spirea betulifolia 'Tor Gold'                5 Gallon
                                                                                                COBBLE COLOR TWO                                                  FEATURE. INSTALL 4" DEEP
                                                                                                                                                                  4"-8" DIA. DECORATIVE GRAY
                                                                                                                                                                  RIVER ROCK OVER WEED                                                                                                                                                                                       81                                                  Cranberry Cotoneaster              Cotoneaster apiculatus                       5 Gallon
     x




                                                                                                                                                                  BARRIER. PROVIDE 1'-3'
                                                                                                                                                                  BOULDERS ALONG EDGES
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           COBBLE COLOR FOUR                                                                                                 23                                                  Euonymus Wintercreeper             Euonymus Fortunei 'Moonshadow'               5 Gallon

                                                                             COBBLE COLOR ONE                                                                    COBBLE COLOR ONE                                                                                                                       COBBLE COLOR ONE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             29                                                  Boxwood, Littleleaf                Buxus microphylla                            5 Gallon


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             202                                                 Daylily                            Hemerocallis                                 1 Gallon
x




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             119                                                 Overdam Feather Grass              Calamagrostis x acutifolia 'Overdam'         1 Gallon


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             71                                                  Slender Maiden Grass               Miscanthus sinensis 'Gracillimus'            1 Gallon


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             --                                                  Vinca minor 'Bowles'               Dwarf Periwinkle                             Flat/12" o.c.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        PLANT COUNT IS PROVIDED AS A REFERENCE. CONTRACTOR SHALL PROVIDE NUMBER OF PLANTS AS SHOWN ON PLAN.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        GENERAL LANDSCAPE NOTES:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        1.         ALL REQUIRED LANDSCAPING SHALL BE INSTALLED AS A CONDITION PRECEDENT TO RECEIVING A CERTIFICATE OF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            LANDSCAPED WITH                        OCCUPANCY UNLESS SEASONAL CONDITIONS MAKE INSTALLATION UNFEASIBLE, IN WHICH CASE THE APPLICANT SHALL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            OFFICE PHASE                           PROVIDE CASH SECURITY OR ITS APPROVED ALTERNATIVE, FOR ALL LANDSCAPING, WHICH LANDSCAPING SHALL BE INSTALLED
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   BY THE FOLLOWING MAY 31st.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        2.         AFTER COMPLETION OF ALL PLANTING, ALL IRRIGATED NON-TURF AREAS SHALL BE COVERED WITH A MINIMUM FOUR-INCH (4")
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   LAYER OF 2"-3" DIA. DECORATIVE ROCK OVER WEED BARRIER TO RETAIN WATER, INHIBIT WEED GROWTH, AND MODERATE SOIL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   TEMPERATURE. NONPOROUS MATERIAL SHALL NOT BE PLACED UNDER THE MULCH.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        3.         SOIL PREPARATION. SOIL PREPARATION WILL BE SUITABLE TO PROVIDE HEALTHY GROWING CONDITIONS FOR THE PLANTS AND
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   TO ENCOURAGE WATER INFILTRATION AND PENETRATION. SOIL PREPARATION SHALL INCLUDE SCARIFYING THE SOIL TO A
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   MINIMUM DEPTH OF SIX INCHES AND AMENDING THE SOIL WITH ORGANIC MATERIAL AS PER SPECIFIC RECOMMENDATIONS OF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   THE LANDSCAPE DESIGNER BASED ON THE SOIL CONDITIONS.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        4.         TURFGRASS. PLAN SHALL DELINEATE TURFGRASS AREAS AND INCLUDE A CALCULATION (PERCENTAGE) OF IRRIGATED
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   TURFGRASS NOT TO EXCEED FIFTY PERCENT OF THE LANDSCAPED AREAS. TURF AREAS SHALL BE ON A SEPARATE IRRIGATION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ZONE FROM OTHER LANDSCAPE ZONES.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        5.         TREES. TREES LESS THAN A TWO-INCH CALIPER MUST BE DOUBLE-STAKED UNTIL THE TREES MATURE TO A TWO-INCH CALIPER

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        # OF TREES REQUIRED                     30 TREES                                  FREEWAY TREES REQ.              525
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          100 (2) 11 TREES
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        # OF TREES PROVIDED                     50 TREES                                  FREEWAY TREES PRO.              11 TREES
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        # EVERGREEN TREES                       12 TREES 24%                              FREEWAY SHRUBS REQ.             45 SHRUBS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          FREEWAY SHRUBS PRO.             45 SHRUBS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        # OF PARKING LOT REQ.                   11 TREES                                  SOUTH PL TREES REQ.             4 TREES
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        # OF PARKING PROVIDED                   13 TREES                                  SOUTH PL TREES PRO.             9 TREES

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        # OF SHRUBS PROVIDED                    692 SHRUBS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          SOUTH PL SHRUBS REQ.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          SOUTH PL SHRUBS PRO.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          34 SHRUBS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          46 SHRUBS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 LANDSCAPE PLAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        # EVERGREEN SHRUBS                      129 SHRUBS 19%                            EAST TREES REQ.                 3 TREES
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          EAST TREES PRO.                 3 TREES (PLACED BY BLDG.)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        TOTAL % OF EVERGREEN PLANTS PROVIDED = 24%                                        EAST SHRUBS REQ.                24 SHRUBS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          EAST SHRUBS PRO.                24 SHRUBS (PLACED BY BLDG.)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        COBBLE COLOR ONE - STAKER PARSON CALICO COBBLE OR EQUAL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        COBBLE COLOR TWO - LIGHT GRAY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        COBBLE COLOR THREE - STAKER/BEEF HOLLOW PIT 4" MINUS CRUSHED ROCK CODE #0371
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        COBBLE COLOR FOUR - CART-AWAY ROCK PRODUCTS 'STONE BARK' OR EQUAL                                                                                        PROJECT NUMBER            PRINT DATE

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         HORIZONTAL GRAPHIC SCALE                                                                                                                                                                                                                5517E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        PROVIDE DEWITT PRO5 WEED BARRIER UNDER ALL DECORATIVE ROCK ARES. EXCEPT WHERE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 DRAWN BY                  CHECKED BY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               20                 0        10        20       40                                        VINCA MINOR IS TO BE PLANTED.                                                                                                                            J ELDER                   B MORRIS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        TOTAL SITE INTERIOR PARKING LOT LANDSCAPE REQ. CALCULATION                                                                                               PROJECT MANAGER
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 B MORRIS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ( IN FEET )                                                                                           PARKING LOT AREA = 38,192 Sq. Ft.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  HORZ: 1 inch = 20 ft.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           INTERIOR PARKING LANDSCAPING PROVIDED = 3,143 Sq. Ft. (8%) (2,673 REQUIRED)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              L-100
                          EXHIBIT G
                         ELEVATIONS




Fairfield Inn & Suites                App. # SPR-959-2020
Site Plan Request            17
4/1/2020 5:39:00 PM




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             EXTERIOR MATERIALS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             AREA CALCULATIONS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         A217
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ** AREA CALCULATIONS ARE APPROXIMATE, ARE SUBJECT TO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             CHANGE, AND INCLUDE AREA OF SURFACES BEYOND
                                                                                                                                         1           2                  3                    4                  5                 6                  7          8            9             10             11    12    13     14               15     16                       17                        18           19                 20   21              22   23
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             SOUTH ELEVATION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               15'-2"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             STONE                                 597 SF    6%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       TOW4
                                                                                                                                                                                                 65'-11 5/8"                                                                                    65'-10"                                                                                                                                                                                      METAL COMPOSITE PANEL               1,337 SF   12%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       155' - 0"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             FIBER CEMENT PANEL                  5,074 SF   48%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             SYNTHETIC WOOD PANEL                  597 SF    6%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       TOW2




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             6'-1"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             EIFS                                2,954 SF   28%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       148' - 0"             TOTAL                              10,559 SF

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             WEST ELEVATION

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             STONE                                   0 SF    0%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       LEVEL 4               METAL COMPOSITE PANEL                   0 SF    0%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       134' - 6 1/2"         FIBER CEMENT PANEL                  1,567 SF   36%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             SYNTHETIC WOOD PANEL                2,084 SF   49%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             EIFS                                  657 SF   15%                                                                             PRELIMINARY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       LEVEL 3               TOTAL                               4,308 SF                                                                                     NOT FOR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       124' - 3 1/4"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             EAST ELEVATION                                                                                                                CONSTRUCTION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             STONE                                 233 SF    5%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       LEVEL 2               METAL COMPOSITE PANEL                 664 SF   15%                                                                             4/1/2020 5:39:00 PM
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       114' - 0"             FIBER CEMENT PANEL                  1,686 SF   39%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             SYNTHETIC WOOD PANEL                1,107 SF   26%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             EIFS                                  630 SF   15%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             TOTAL                               4,320 SF

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       LEVEL 1               NORTH ELEVATION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       100' - 0"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             STONE                                 664 SF    6%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             METAL COMPOSITE PANEL               2,599 SF   25%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         A217
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             FIBER CEMENT PANEL                  3,228 SF   31%
                                                                                                                                                          1      SOUTH ELEVATION                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             SYNTHETIC WOOD PANEL                1,488 SF   14%
                                                                                                                                                         A211    3/32" = 1'-0"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             EIFS                                2,521 SF   24%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             TOTAL                              10,500 SF




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    BANGERTER CROSSING II HOTEL B, LLC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          FAIRFIELD INN & SUITES
                                                                                                                                        23          22                21                    20                 19                18                 17        16            15            14               13    12    11   10                9      8                        7                         6            5                  4    3               2    1                                SOUTHWEST SCHEME
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   EXTERIOR FINISH KEY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         A217


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      64'-11 1/2"                                15'-2"                                                                                                                                                                                      TOW4                      EIFS - BENJAMIN MOORE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         DRAPER, UT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          65'-10 1/4"                                        155' - 0"                 BM-2112 "BROWN SUGAR"

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             TOW2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    6'-1"




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             148' - 0"                 EL DORADO STONE - CUT COARSE "OYSTER"


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       FIBER CEMENT PANEL - BENJAMIN MOORE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       HC-35 "POWELL BUFF"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             LEVEL 4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             134' - 6 1/2"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       FIBER CEMENT PANEL - BENJAMIN MOORE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       HC-34 "WILMINGTON TAN"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             LEVEL 3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             124' - 3 1/4"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       SYNTHETIC WOOD FIBER-CEMENT PANEL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       NICHIHA VINTAGEWOOD "CEDAR"




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ANY PROHIBITED USE OF THESE DRAWINGS OR DESIGN SHOWN ARE SUBJECT TO LEGAL ACTION.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             LEVEL 2                   METAL COMPOSITE PANEL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             114' - 0"                 "TWILIGHT GRAY"




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  14' - 0"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       FIBER CEMENT PANEL - SHERWIN WILLIAMS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       SW 6356 "COPPER MOUNTAIN"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             LEVEL 1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             100' - 0"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       METAL TRELLIS - BENJAMIN MOORE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            PM-30 "BONE WHITE"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         A217

                                                                                                                                                     NORTH ELEVATION




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ANY REPRODUCTION, COPYING OR USE OTHER THAN FOR THIS SPECIFIC PROJECT IS PROHOBITED WITHOUT THE PRIOR WRITTEN CONSENT OF AE URBIA ARCHITECTS & ENGINEERS.
                                                                                                                                              2
                                                                                                                                             A211    3/32" = 1'-0"




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Revision Date
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  CITY OF DRAPER SITE PLAN APPLICATION 28 FEB 2020
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Revision Schedule

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   DESCRIPTION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             TOW4                                                                                                                                                                               TOW4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    15'-0 1/2"                                                                                               155' - 0"                                                                                                                                                                          155' - 0"

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  TOW2                                                                                                                                                                          TOW2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  148' - 0"                                                                                                                                                                     148' - 0"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      6'-1"
C:\Users\jbaer\Desktop\Jobs saved to this machine\2019.294 - Fairfield Draper\Revit\2019.294 Fairfield Draper_detached 2020.03.26.rvt




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   MARK
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             LEVEL 4                                                                                                                                                                            LEVEL 4




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      THESE DRAWINGS AND THE DESIGN SHOWN HAVE BEEN PREPARED FOR THIS SPECIFIC PROJECT AS AN INSTRUMENT OF SERVICE AND SHALL REMAIN THE SOLE PROPERTY OF AE URBIA ARCHITECTS & ENGINEERS AND THEIR CONSULTANTS.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             134' - 6 1/2"                                                                                                                                                                      134' - 6 1/2"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          AE2019.294
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             LEVEL 3                                                                                                                                                                            LEVEL 3                                                                                                     EXTERIOR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             124' - 3 1/4"                                                                                                                                                                      124' - 3 1/4"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ELEVATIONS

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             LEVEL 2                                5'-9 1/8"                                                                                                                                   LEVEL 2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             114' - 0"                                                                                                                                                                          114' - 0"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   2'-3 3/4"




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            DATE:                                   4/1/2020
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   5:39:00 PM
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             LEVEL 1                                                                                                                                                                            LEVEL 1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             100' - 0"                                                                                                                                                                          100' - 0"

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            SHEET #:




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 A211




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     4/1/2020 5:39:00 PM
                                                                                                                                                                  3         WEST ELEVATION                                                                                                                                                          4         EAST ELEVATION
                                                                                                                                                                 A211       3/32" = 1'-0"                                                                                                                                                          A211       3/32" = 1'-0"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            COPYRIGHT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            AE URBIA, LLC.
                              EXHIBIT H
                         DEVIATION REQUESTS




Fairfield Inn & Suites                        App. # SPR-959-2020
Site Plan Request                18
Fairfield Inn & Suites        App. # SPR-959-2020
Site Plan Request        19
Fairfield Inn & Suites        App. # SPR-959-2020
Site Plan Request        20
Fairfield Inn & Suites        App. # SPR-959-2020
Site Plan Request        21
Fairfield Inn & Suites        App. # SPR-959-2020
Site Plan Request        22
Fairfield Inn & Suites        App. # SPR-959-2020
Site Plan Request        23
