                                    Bangerter Crossing II
                                      Office Building
                         Draper Development Agreement Application
                                        5 July 2022



1. Legal Description – provided in a separate document

2. Restrictions and Conditions:
       The project will be developed in compliance with the approvals, deviations, and
           conditions of the original Site Plan approval on July 9, 2020.

3. Master Plan Configuration – provided in a separate document

4. Statement of benefit and value of the development:
        The design of the 3-story office building in this location is consistent and compatible with
          the immediately surrounding properties. The modern architecture brings a Class A office
          building design to a very visible and important entry into Draper City. The project would
          provide positive economic value to the area as well as expanding job growth within the
          City. As a Draper-based business, Wadsworth Development Group (WDG) is committed
          to the development and of quality projects with long term value to the community.

5. Time Frame for development of the Project:
       Although difficult to determine the exact timeframe for the construction of this project in
          the current economic climate, WDG is actively marketing this project and seeking tenants.
          The design, permitting, and construction timeframe for this project once tenants are
          secured would be approximately 18 months.

6. Process and Approvals after the Development Agreement is complete:
       A Building Permit would be required: The full building design construction documents
           would be completed in approximately 12 weeks once the project is approved internally
           to commence.
       A minor revision to the sequencing of the utility installation would be prepared and
           submitted to Planning and Engineering for review and approval. The previously approved
           site plan documents assumed that the Office Building would be constructed first. Instead,
           the construction of the Fairfield is planned to commence prior to the Office Building
           requiring that utilities would extended first to the Hotel and then stubbed to the Office
           parcel.

7. Provisions for Enforcement of the Terms and Conditions of the DA:
       The project would be designed and constructed in accordance with the previous
           approvals, deviations, and City Codes and Ordinances.

8. Time Limitation: 6 Years proposed to submit for a Building Permit

9. Other Terms: None Anticipated
