PC Draft Minutes May 26, 2022
MINUTES OF THE DRAPER CITY PLANNING COMMISSION MEETING HELD ON
THURDAY, MAY 26, 2022 IN THE DRAPER CITY COUNCIL CHAMBERS

PARTICIPATING:          Chairman Andrew Adams, Vice Chairman Craig Hawker, Commissioners
                        Lisa Fowler, Mary Squire, Susan Nixon and Tab Bingham

ABSENT:                Commissioner Gary Ogden and Commissioner DeLaina Tonks

STAFF PRESENT:         Amie Salazar, Fred Aegerter, Jennifer Jastremsky and Mike Barker

6:30 PM Business Meeting:

1.     Action Item: Approve Planning Commission Meeting Minutes for April 14, 2022
       (Administrative Action)

Motion: Commissioner Lisa Fowler motioned to approve the minutes from the meeting on
April 14, 2022.

Second: Commissioner Craig Hawker

Vote: A roll call was taken with the Commissioners voting 4-0 in favor of the motion.
Commissioners Hawker, Fowler, Squire, and Nixon voted, “Aye”.

2.     Public Hearing: Ronda Call Fence Height Conditional Use Permit (Administrative
       Action)

On the request of Ronda Call for a Conditional Use Permit for additional fence height along the
rear property line of a 0.48-acre property located at 13439 South Banbury Park Ln. Application
USE-91-2022.          Staff       contact:       Jennifer      Jastremsky,       801.576.6328,
jennifer.jastremsky@draperutah.gov.

Jennifer Jastremsky, Planning Manager and Zoning Administrator, introduced the request for a
conditional use permit. She identified the location of the property and noted that the City’s canal
trail ran along the back portion of it. She pointed out that it was within the residential medium/low
density land use designation and zoned RA2 which is half acre lots.

Ms. Jastremsky clarified that the request was for additional fence height along the portion of the
property that is adjacent to the city trail on the east property line. She noted the trail was higher in
elevation than the property owner’s backyard. She stated that the owner would like to keep the
same fence design of a white masonry wall while increasing the height. She indicated that code
allowed for up to a 10-foot fence with a conditional use permit.

Ronda Call, applicant, explained that with their current fence there was no privacy since the trail
was higher in elevation than their property. She indicated that they would most likely need to add
two feet of height to the fence and was in contact with a company that could increase the height of
the fence and keep the current design.
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
May 26, 2022
Page 2
Chairman Andrew Adams opened the meeting up for public comments on the item. No comments
were made, and the public hearing was closed.

Motion: Commissioner Hawker motioned to approve the conditional use permit as requested
by Ronda Call for additional fence height along the rear property line, Application USE-91-
2022, based on the findings and subject to the conditions listed in the staff report dated May
16, 2022.

Second: Commissioner Mary Squire

Vote: A roll call was taken with the Commissioners voting 4-0 in favor of the motion.
Commissioners Hawker, Fowler, Squire, and Nixon voted, “Aye”.

Commissioner Tab Bingham joined the meeting.

3.     Public Hearing: Centennial Heights Plat C Lots 35 & 36 Plat Amendment
       (Administrative Action)

On the request of Travis Hymas, representing Logan Donovan and Bryan and Tammy Lund, for a
Plat Amendment to adjust the common property line between Lots 35 and 36 of the Centennial
Heights Plat C Subdivision. The two properties equal 0.32 acres and are located at 83 East and 89
East Steep Mountain Dr. Application SUBD-60-2022. Staff contact: Jennifer Jastremsky,
801.576.6328, jennifer.jastremsky@draperutah.gov.

Ms. Jastremsky identified the two subject properties located off Steep Mountain Drive and noted
they are within the residential medium density land use and are zoned R3. She noted that while the
R3 zone requires 13,000 square foot lots, the properties are included within a neighborhood that
was approved with a development agreement and included lots as small as 6,100 square feet.

Ms. Jastremsky noted that the proposal was to relocate the common property line between lots 35
and 36 to the east by about 3 feet. She noted that this would correct an error that was found by the
surveyors on the original plat and follow the existing fence line. She shared that both properties
would still comply with the minimum 6,100 square feet lot size and all other size requirements.

Travis Hymas, applicant, stated he was representing Logan Donovan and Bryan and Tammy Lund.
He explained that in preparation for an addition on lot 36 they found that the lot was 68 feet wide
and not 70. He noted that they wanted to correct everything and make it official before applying
for building permits

Chairman Adams opened the meeting up for public comments on the item. No comments were
made, and the public hearing was closed.
Commissioner Hawker remarked that he did not have a problem with the request.

Motion: Commissioner Fowler motioned to approve the plat amendment as requested by
Travis Hymas, representing Logan Donovan and Bryan and Tammy Lund, for the



                                                 2
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
May 26, 2022
Page 3
Centennial Heights Plat C lots 35 and 36 plat amendment, Application SUBD-60-2022, based
on the findings and subject to the conditions listed in the staff report dated May 16, 2022.

Second: Commissioner Tab Bingham

Vote: A roll call was taken with the Commissioners voting 5-0 in favor of the motion.
Commissioners Hawker, Fowler, Squire, Bingham, and Nixon voted, “Aye”.

4.     Public Hearing: Pye Development Agreement (Legislative Action)

On the request of Draper City, for a Development Agreement on a 0.57-acre property located at
1842 East 12200 South. The Development Agreement provides for modified building setbacks and
protects an existing storm drainage facility. Application DA-112-2022. Staff contact: Mike Barker,
801.576.6322, mike.barker@draperutah.gov.

Mike Barker, City Attorney, explained that the development agreement was being seen by the
Planning Commission first since state code requires development agreements containing terms
that conflicted with code to follow the same procedure for amending code or enacting a new land
use regulation.

Mr. Barker indicated that the development agreement was proposing a reduction to the rear setback
from 20 feet to 17 feet. He pointed out that the rear property line runs along 1840 East which he
believed was a private lane. He noted that the property is within the residential low/medium density
land use designation and zoning was RA2.

Mr. Barker commented that the property has utility and access easements that make it unique and
creates challenges for development on the site. He stated that they were trying to address some of
those issues in the development agreement. He shared that staff was asking for a positive
recommendation since the setback was on a property line that bordered a private lane and believed
it had a low impact.

Commissioner Hawker inquired if the cul-de-sac would ever be turned into a through road.

Ms. Jastremsky indicated that the right of way on the property was created as emergency access to
the subdivision along Indian Wells. She clarified that it functions as a pedestrian path everyday
but noted the bollards could be removed for evacuation for emergency purposes.

Jason Pye, applicant 1668 East 12500 South, explained that he purchased the lot four years ago
with the intent of building his dream home. He noted that they have since found a storm drain on
the property requiring them shift their home six feet to the north. He stated that he believed they
had come to a good resolution for everyone. He noted there was a buffer created by Black Locus
trees along the back of his property.

Chairman Adams opened the meeting up for public comments on this agenda item.




                                                 3
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
May 26, 2022
Page 4
Steve Taylor, 1822 East Sawgrass Circle, commented that they were looking forward to having
the Pye family as neighbors. He requested that they consider not allowing parking on or in front
of the private lane to avoid blocking emergency vehicles.

Chairman Adams closed the public hearing.

Mr. Pye stated the home is structured so guests would come to the east of the property which is a
requirement included in the private agreement with the private lane holder. He noted that they did
not foresee people parking in front of the access road and hoped to create some parking on his
property if possible.

Motion: Commissioner Susan Nixon motioned to forward a positive recommendation to the
city council for the development agreement as requested by Draper City for the Pye
Development Agreement, Application DA-112-2022, based on the findings and subject to the
conditions listed in the staff memo dated May 26, 2022.

Second: Commissioner Squire

Vote: A roll call was taken with the Commissioners voting 5-0 in favor of the motion.
Commissioners Hawker, Fowler, Squire, Bingham, and Nixon voted, “Aye”.

5.     Training: Open and Public Meeting

Mr. Barker noted that there was only one legislative change that would impact the Planning
Commission, HB 22, which requires them to establish rules on how a quorum is calculated in an
electronic meeting. He indicated that current rules allow them to do electronic meetings, but they
should anticipate an amendment to their rules that would address the concerns of HB 22.

Commissioner Fowler asked if electronic meetings referred to members of the public attending
electronically or members of the commission.

Mr. Barker indicated it was in reference to members of the commission attending virtually.

Mr. Barker noted that the other parts of HB 22 addressed proxy votes and roll call votes during
electronic meetings. He noted that proxy votes were not applicable to the planning commission,
and they already held roll call votes each time.

Mr. Barker reviewed HB 135, which did not pass, and noted this would require all public bodies
to allow for public comment. He shared that HB 285, which did not pass, proposed criminal
penalties for excluding from an open meeting a member of the public who is entitled to attend.

Mr. Barker provided training on emergency meetings. He noted that typically the planning
commission did not have a need for them, but they could be done under unforeseen circumstance
or for matters of an emergency or urgent nature. He noted that the best practical notice should
include time and location of the meeting as well as topics to be considered. He also shared that an



                                                4
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
May 26, 2022
Page 5
emergency meeting could not be held unless an attempt had been made to notify all members of
the public body and a majority of members approved the meeting.

Mr. Barker reviewed how city code and the planning commission bylaws and rules addressed open
meeting rules. He shared rules including required adoption of a general meeting schedule for the
upcoming year every November, all meetings were open to the public and followed the Open and
Public Meetings Act (OPMA). A quorum consists of at least three commissioners, abstaining
commissioners still counted as part of the quorum while those have recused for conflict of interest
were not, and electronic meetings may be conducted in accordance with OPMA.

6.     Adjournment

Motion: Commissioner Fowler motioned to adjourn the meeting.


The meeting was adjourned at 7:11p.m.




                                                5
