                                Development Review Committee
                                     1020 East Pioneer Road
                                       Draper, UT 84020
                                       September 1, 2022

To:              Draper City Planning Commission
                 Business Date: September 8, 2022

From:            Development Review Committee

Prepared By: Todd A. Draper, AICP, Planner III
             Planning Division
             Community Development Department
             801-576-6335, todd.draper@draperutah.gov

Re:     2022 Moderate Income Housing Plan - General Plan Amendment Request
        Application No.: TEXTMAP-174-2022
        Applicant:        Draper City
        Project Location: City Wide
        Current Zoning: City Wide
        Acreage:          City Wide
        Request:          Request for approval of a General Plan Amendment to Chapter 4
                          Housing to implement the Moderate Income Housing Plan
                          requirements instituted in House Bill 462 (HB 462) during the
                          2022 legislative session by the Utah State Legislature.



BACKGROUND AND SUMMARY
This application is a request for approval and adoption of changes to the Draper City
General Plan with respects to requirements of the Moderate Income Housing Plan
element(s) within the plan. In 2019 the Utah State Legislature passed Senate Bill 34 (SB 34)
which required Cities to adopt specific strategies to encourage the creation of Moderate
Income Housing into their General Plan from a specific list provided within SB 34. Draper
City complied in 2019 and adopted four (4) Moderate Income Housing strategies from the
pre-approved list into the General Plan. HB 462 passed during the 2022 Utah State
Legislative session, now requires that the City update the General Plan and select from a
revised list of specific strategies that were contained within HB 462.




2022 Moderate Income Housing Plan                                App. # TEXTMAP-174-2022
General Plan Amendment Request                 1
ANALYSIS
General Plan.
The population of Draper City has grown by approximately 22.6% over the past decade,
and 10% in the past five (5) years, reflecting a general trend of population growth equal to
approximately 2% per year. With many strategies to select from, it is important to select
strategies that balance the needs of the existing community with those of future residents
and employees, particularly those with moderate incomes. The following table outlines the
five (5) current strategies contained within the General Plan (Exhibit B) alongside six (6)
strategies that were selected to replace the prior strategies based on recommendations
and input received from the public (Exhibit E) and the Planning Commission. Additional
details of the proposed strategies, including the proposed implementation plans and
timeline for the selected strategies are included in Exhibit C.

 Table 1      Current Strategies                Proposed Strategies                   Exhibit
              (D) Consider general fund                                               Exhibit B
              subsidies or other sources of
              revenue to waive construction
              related fees that are otherwise
              generally imposed by the city.
              (E) Create or allow for, and      (E) Create or allow for, and          Exhibits
              reduce regulations related to,    reduce regulations related to,        B and C
              accessory dwelling units in       internal or detached accessory
              residential zones.                dwelling units in residential
                                                zones.
                                                (F) Zone or rezone for higher         Exhibit C
                                                density or moderate income
                                                residential development in
                                                commercial or mixed-use zones
                                                near major transit investment
                                                corridors, commercial centers, or
                                                employment centers.
              (G) Encourage higher density or   (G) Amend land use regulations        Exhibits
              moderate income residential       to allow for higher density or new    B and C
              development near major transit    moderate income residential
              investment corridors.             development in commercial or
                                                mixed-use zones near major
                                                transit investment corridors
                                                (J) Implement zoning incentives       Exhibit C
                                                for moderate income units in
                                                new developments
                                                (O) Apply for or partner with an      Exhibit C
                                                entity that applies for state or
                                                federal funds or tax incentives to



2022 Moderate Income Housing Plan                                 App. # TEXTMAP-174-2022
General Plan Amendment Request                  2
                                                 promote the construction of
                                                 moderate income housing, an
                                                 entity that applies for programs
                                                 offered by the Utah Housing
                                                 Corporation within that agency's
                                                 funding capacity, an entity that
                                                 applies for affordable housing
                                                 programs administered by the
                                                 Department of Workforce
                                                 Services, an entity that applies for
                                                 affordable housing programs
                                                 administered by an association of
                                                 governments established by an
                                                 interlocal agreement under [Utah
                                                 State Code] Title 11, Chapter 13,
                                                 Interlocal Cooperation Act, an
                                                 entity that applies for services
                                                 provided by a public housing
                                                 authority to preserve and create
                                                 moderate income housing, or any
                                                 other entity that applies for
                                                 programs or services that
                                                 promote the construction or
                                                 preservation of moderate income
                                                 housing.
              (R) Apply for or partner with an                                           Exhibit B
              entity that applies for
              affordable housing programs
              administered by the
              Department of Workforce
              Services.
              (U) Apply for or partner with an                                           Exhibit B
              entity that applies for programs
              administered by a metropolitan
              planning organization or other
              transportation agency that
              provides technical planning
              assistance.
                                                 (V) Develop and adopt a station         Exhibit C
                                                 area plan in accordance with
                                                 [Utah State Code] Section 10-9a-
                                                 403.1




2022 Moderate Income Housing Plan                                    App. # TEXTMAP-174-2022
General Plan Amendment Request                   3
The following additional strategies, including their accompanying implementation plans
and timeline, were identified by staff as alternatives that could also be appropriate for
Draper City. They are not included in the proposed text of the General Plan Amendment
(Exhibit C), however they are being provided should the Planning Commission wish to
recommend the consideration of one of them as an alternate or different strategy to the
City Council other than those currently listed in the General Plan Amendment text. A
complete list of all available strategies is included within Utah Code Section 10-9a-403
(Exhibit D). Staff may incorporate changes, as needed, into the General Plan Amendment
document before it is presented to the City Council for their review, input, and adoption
based on the results of the Planning Commission meeting.

 Table 2     Alternative Strategies
 Year        Selection     Proposed 5 year Implementation Plans
             (D) Identify and utilize general fund subsidies or other sources of revenue to
             waive construction related fees that are otherwise generally imposed by the
             municipality for the construction or rehabilitation of moderate income housing.

 2023                        Review fee analysis from 2021 and identify fees that could be
                             waived related to construction of Moderate Income Housing.
                             Identify funding sources from the general fund or other sources.
                             Set aside City budgetary funds to offset loss of applicable building
                             permit and/or site plan application fees.

             (H) Amend land use regulations to eliminate or reduce parking requirements for
             residential development where a resident is less likely to rely on the resident's
             own vehicle, such as residential development near major transit investment
             corridors or senior living facilities.

 2024                        Budget for and conduct a parking study of area housing to
                             determine if parking reductions to minimum parking for residential
                             uses may be warranted.

 2025                        Update Parking requirements in ordinance regarding minimum
                             parking for residential uses to reflect results of study and provide
                             for reductions to parking requirements where residents are less to
                             primarily rely on a personal vehicle.

             (L) Reduce, waive, or eliminate impact fees related to moderate income housing.

 2025                        Budget for cost of conducting a study regarding the reduction or
                             elimination of impact fees for developments that provide
                             Moderate Income Housing.




2022 Moderate Income Housing Plan                                      App. # TEXTMAP-174-2022
General Plan Amendment Request                     4
 2026                        Include additional infrastructure costs into annual budget related
                             to the reduction or elimination of impact fees for developments
                             that provide Moderate Income Housing.

Staff has reviewed the proposed text and plans and believes that the General Plan
Amendment will comply with the minimum requirements of Utah Code with respects to
Moderate Income Housing Plan element within the General Plan. As a municipality with a
fixed guide-way public transit station, Draper City is required to implement strategy V from
the new list; at least one (1) of the strategies G, H, or Q; and an three (3) additional
strategies for a total of five (5). The City can also choose to implement an additional one (1)
strategy for a total of six (6) to receive priority consideration for certain transportation
funding from the Utah Department of Transportation (UDOT). Staff has selected to include
six (6) strategies in the proposal rather than the minimum five (5) so the City can receive
this priority status from UDOT.

Draper City engaged Zions Bank to conduct a housing assessment to help inform the
Moderate Income Housing Plan elements of the 2019 General Plan. Zion’s Bank is currently
working on an update to that assessment, however; the assessment was inadvertently
delayed. Receipt of the housing assessment is anticipated prior to the City Council meeting.
Some of the data and statistics within the proposed General Plan Amendment tables
and/or text (Exhibit C) may be updated in the General Plan Amendment document
presented to the City Council for adoption that reflect the data and deeper analysis as
contained in the updated Zions Bank report. The Housing Assessment report will also be
included as an Exhibit within the General Plan.

The annual Moderate Income Housing reporting requirements for 2022 were also altered
by HB 462 in that reporting for this calendar year mainly consists of submitting a copy of
the newly adopted Moderate Income Housing Plan element of the General Plan to the
Housing and Community Development Division within the Department of Workforce
Services (Division) by October 1st. The Division will review the report to determine if it
sufficiently demonstrates to the Division that the City intends to implement five (5) or more
of the moderate income housing strategies. If the Division determines that the report does
not comply with the State Code, then the City would be given ninety (90) days from the date
of the Divisions notice to correct any deficiencies within the Moderate Income Housing
Plan.

Criteria For Approval.
A Text amendment to the General Plan falls under the provisions of DCMC Section 9-2-
020(F). That section lists the following criteria for a General Plan amendment as:

        Plan Amendment: All plan amendments shall be in accordance with Utah Code
        Annotated 10-9a-404, as amended and, unless requested by the city's legislative body,




2022 Moderate Income Housing Plan                                     App. # TEXTMAP-174-2022
General Plan Amendment Request                    5
        shall follow the procedures as outlined in Draper City Municipal Code (DCMC) 9-5-
        060(D).”

Those sections are noted as follows:

        (Utah Code) 10-9a-404. (Effective 6/1/2022) Public hearing by planning commission on
        proposed general plan or amendment -- Notice -- Revisions to general plan or
        amendment -- Adoption or rejection by legislative body.
            (1)
                (a) After completing the planning commission's recommendation for a proposed
                    general plan, or proposal to amend the general plan, the planning
                    commission shall schedule and hold a public hearing on the proposed plan or
                    amendment.
                (b) The planning commission shall provide notice of the public hearing, as
                    required by Section 10-9a-204.
                (c) After the public hearing, the planning commission may modify the proposed
                    general plan or amendment.
            (2) The planning commission shall forward the proposed general plan or
                amendment to the legislative body.
            (3)
                (a) The legislative body may adopt, reject, or make any revisions to the proposed
                    general plan or amendment that the legislative body considers appropriate.
                (b) If the municipal legislative body rejects the proposed general plan or
                    amendment, the legislative body may provide suggestions to the planning
                    commission for the planning commission's review and recommendation.
            (4) The legislative body shall adopt:
                (a) a land use element as provided in Subsection 10-9a-403(2)(a)(i);
                (b) a transportation and traffic circulation element as provided in Subsection 10-
                    9a-403(2)(a)(ii);
                (c) for a specified municipality as defined in Section 10-9a-408, a moderate
                    income housing element as provided in Subsection 10-9a-403(2)(a)(iii); and
                (d) except for a city of the fifth class or a town, on or before December 31, 2025,
                    a water use and preservation element as provided in Subsection 10-9a-
                    403(2)(a)(iv).

        (DCMC) 9-5-060(D)
        D.    Procedure: Zoning text and map amendments shall be considered and processed
              as provided in this subsection:
              1.     A complete application shall be submitted to the office of the zoning
                     administrator in a form established by the administrator along with any
                     fee established by the city’s schedule of fees. The application shall include
                     at least the following information:




2022 Moderate Income Housing Plan                                     App. # TEXTMAP-174-2022
General Plan Amendment Request                   6
                         a.      The name, address and telephone number of the applicant and
                                 the applicant’s agent, if any.
                         b.      The name and address of every person or company the applicant
                                 represents.
                         c.      The requested amendment and reasons supporting the request.
                         d.      If the proposed amendment requires a change in the zoning map,
                                 the application shall include:
                                 (1)      An accurate property map showing present and proposed
                                          zoning classifications;
                                 (2)      All abutting properties showing present zoning
                                          classifications; and
                                 (3)      An accurate legal description and an approximate common
                                          address of the area proposed to be rezoned.
                         e.      If the proposed amendment requires a change in the text of this
                                 title, the application shall include chapter and section references
                                 and a draft of the proposed text.
                 2.      After the application is determined to be complete, the zoning
                         administrator shall prepare a staff report evaluating the application.
                 3.      The planning commission shall schedule and hold a public hearing on the
                         application as provided in sections 9-5-040 and 9-5-045 of this chapter.
                         Following the public meeting, the planning commission shall recommend
                         approval, approval with modifications, or denial of the proposed
                         amendment and shall submit its recommendation to the city council for
                         review and decision.
                 4.      The city council shall schedule and hold a public hearing on the
                         application as provided in sections 9-5-040 and 9-5-045 of this chapter.
                         Following the public hearing, the city council may approve, approve with
                         modifications, or deny the proposed amendment.



REVIEWS
Planning Division Review. The Draper City Planning Division has completed their review of
the General Plan Amendment submission. Comments from this division, if any, can be
found in Exhibit A.

Legal Division Review. The Draper City Attorney has completed his review of the General
Plan Amendment submission. Comments from this division, if any, can be found in Exhibit
A.

Noticing. Notice has been properly issued in the manner outlined in the City and State
Codes.




2022 Moderate Income Housing Plan                                      App. # TEXTMAP-174-2022
General Plan Amendment Request                    7
STAFF RECOMMENDATION
Staff recommends that the Planning Commission review the request, receive public
comment, and make a recommendation to the City Council regarding approval, approval
with modifications, or denial of the General Plan Amendment based on the findings listed
below and the criteria for adoption, or rejection, as listed within the staff report.

The findings for approval, or approval with modifications, as are follows:

    1. A Public Hearing before the Planning Commission was held in accordance with Utah
       Code Section 10-9a-404.
    2. The General Plan Amendment is consistent with the requirements of Utah Code and
       is appropriate.

The findings for a negative recommendation or rejection are as are follows:

    1. The General Plan Amendment is not consistent with the requirements of Utah Code
       and is not appropriate.



MODEL MOTIONS
Sample Motion for a Positive Recommendation – I move that we forward a positive
recommendation to the City Council for the 2022 General Plan Amendment – Moderate
Income Housing Plan, as requested by Draper City, application TEXTMAP-174-2022, based
on the findings for approval listed in the Staff Report dated September 1, 2022.

Sample Motion for a Positive Recommendation with additional modifications – I move that
we forward a positive recommendation to the City Council for the 2022 General Plan
Amendment – Moderate Income Housing Plan, as requested by Draper City, application
TEXTMAP-174-2022, based on the findings for approval listed in the Staff Report dated
September 1, 2022, and inclusive of the following recommended modifications:

        1. List any recommended modifications…

Sample Motion for a Negative Recommendation – I move that we forward a negative
recommendation to the City Council for the 2022 General Plan Amendment – Moderate
Income Housing Plan , as requested by Draper City, application TEXTMAP-174-2022, based
on the findings for rejection listed in the Staff Report dated September 1, 2022.




2022 Moderate Income Housing Plan                                 App. # TEXTMAP-174-2022
General Plan Amendment Request                8
                                    EXHIBIT A
                               DEPARTMENT REVIEWS

REVIEWS ARE NOT MEANT TO BE AN ALL INCLUSIVE LIST OF POSSIBLE COMMENTS OR
CONDITIONS.



Planning Division Review.

       1.      No additional comments.



Legal Division Review.

       1.      No additional comments provided.
            EXHIBIT B
EXISTING GENERAL PLAN - CHAPTER 4
HOUSING
Chapter 4




            19
     In 2019 the State of Utah Legislature passed legislation requiring cities to adopt a moderate
     income housing plan with specific strategies and targets identified to increase the number
     of moderate income housing units within the municipalities’ boundaries. By December 1,
     2019, and each year thereafter, cities must report progress toward meeting the targets
     specified in said plan.
     In anticipation of the forthcoming legislation Draper City engaged Zions Bank to conduct
     a housing assessment to assist the city in identifying defined targets that were measurable
     and reasonably achievable over the next 5 years to meet the anticipated requirements.
     Appendix A is a copy of that study and is adopted as part of the Plan.
     The enacted legislation outlines a prescribed set of strategies that each city must
     implement in order to be eligible for certain transportation funding. Cities are required
     to implement, at a minimum, three of the following strategies. Additionally for
     municipalities with a fixed guide-way public transit station, either strategy G or H must also
     be implemented.

     (SB 34) https://le.utah.gov/~2019/bills/sbillenr/SB0034.pdf   (I) A
                                                                        llow for single room
                                                                       occupancy developments;
     (A) Rezone for densities necessary to
          assure the production of moderate                        (J) Implement zoning incentives for low
          income housing;                                              to moderate income units in new
                                                                       developments;
     (B) Facilitate the rehabilitation or
          expansion of infrastructure that will                    (K) U
                                                                        tilize strategies that preserve
          encourage the construction of moderate                       subsidized low to moderate income
          income housing;                                              units on a long-term basis;
     (C) [ Encourage] facilitate the rehabilitation               (L) P
                                                                        reserve existing moderate
          of existing uninhabitable housing stock                      income housing;
          into moderate income housing;
                                                    (M) R educe impact fees, as defined in Utah
     (D) Consider general fund subsidies or other       State Code Section 11-36a-102, related to
          sources of revenue to waive construction       low and moderate income housing;
          related fees that are otherwise generally
          imposed by the city;                      (N) P articipate in a community land
                                                         trust program for low or moderate
     (E) Create or allow for, and reduce                income housing;
          regulations related to, accessory
          dwelling units in residential zones;      (O) Implement a mortgage assistance
                                                         program for employees of the
     (F) Allow for higher density or moderate           municipality or of an employer that
          income residential development in              provides contracted services to
          commercial and mixed-use                       the municipality;
          zones, commercial centers, or
          employment centers;                       (P) A
                                                         pply for or partner with an entity that
                                                        applies for state or federal funds or tax
     (G) Encourage higher density or moderate          incentives to promote the construction
          income residential development near           of moderate income housing;
          major transit investment corridors;
                                                    (Q) A pply for or partner with an entity that
     (H) Eliminate or reduce parking                    applies for programs offered by the
          requirements for residential                   Utah Housing Corporation within that
          development where a resident is less           agency’s funding capacity;
          likely to rely on the resident’s own
          vehicle, such as residential development
          near major transit investment corridors
          or senior living facilities;
20
(R) Apply for or partner with an entity that    Draper City will implement the following
     applies for affordable housing programs     strategies that the legislature has
     administered by the Department of           determined will encourage moderate income
     Workforce Services; [and]                   housing inclusion within the city.
(S) Apply for or partner with an entity that    (D) C
                                                      onsider general fund subsidies or other
     applies for programs administered by an         sources of revenue to waive construction
     association of governments established          related fees that are otherwise generally
     by an inter-local agreement under Title         imposed by the city.
     11, Chapter 13, Interlocal Cooperation
     Act[.];                                     (E) C
                                                      reate or allow for, and reduce
                                                     regulations related to, accessory
(T) Apply for or partner with an entity that        dwelling units in residential zones.
     applies for services provided by a public
     housing authority to preserve and create    (G) E
                                                      ncourage higher density or moderate
     moderate income housing;                        income residential development near
                                                     major transit investment corridors.
(U) Apply for or partner with an entity that
     applies for programs administered by        (R) A
                                                      pply for or partner with an entity that
     a metropolitan planning organization            applies for affordable housing programs
     or other transportation agency that             administered by the Department of
     provides technical planning assistance;         Workforce Services.

(V) Utilize a moderate income housing set       (U) A
                                                      pply for or partner with an entity that
     aside from a community reinvestment             applies for programs administered by
     agency, redevelopment agency, or                a metropolitan planning organization
     community development and renewal               or other transportation agency that
     agency; and                                     provides technical planning assistance.

(W) Any other program or strategy
     implemented by the municipality to
     address the housing needs of residents
     of the municipality who earn less than
     80% of the area median income.




                                                                                                 21
              EXHIBIT C
PROPOSED GENERAL PLAN - CHAPTER 4 (TEXT)
                2022 General Plan Update                                            Draft Text
                Moderate Income Housing                                        (Proposed Text)
                Housing: Chapter 4



In 2019 the Utah State Legislature first passed legislation requiring cities to adopt a Moderate
Income Housing Plan (MIHP) as part of their General Plan and select specific strategies and
targets listed within the legislation to increase the number of moderate income housing
units available for residents and employees within the municipalities’ boundaries. In 2022
the Utah State Legislature made changes to the list of specific strategies and required all
cities to amend their General Plans by October 1, 2022 to align with the updated strategies
from the new list provided within the State Code. The State also required that the MIHP
include five (5) year implementation plans for each selected strategy within the plan, and to
provide an annual progress report to the Utah Division of Workforce Services each year. The
enacted legislation prescribed a set number of strategies that each city must implement in
order to be eligible for certain transportation funding, and an additional count that a City
could choose to implement in exchange for receiving priority status for such funding.

Potential Strategies List from Utah Code Section 10-9a-403(2)(b)(iii):
https://le.utah.gov/xcode/Title10/Chapter9A/C10-9a-S403_2022050420220601.pdf

   (A) Rezone for densities necessary to facilitate the production of moderate income
       housing;
   (B) Demonstrate investment in the rehabilitation or expansion of infrastructure that
       facilitates the construction of moderate income housing;
   (C) Demonstrate investment in the rehabilitation of existing uninhabitable housing
       stock into moderate income housing;
   (D) Identify and utilize general fund subsidies or other sources of revenue to waive
       construction related fees that are otherwise generally imposed by the municipality
       for the construction or rehabilitation of moderate income housing;
   (E) Create or allow for, and reduce regulations related to, internal or detached
       accessory dwelling units in residential zones;
   (F) Zone or rezone for higher density or moderate income residential development in
       commercial or mixed-use zones near major transit investment corridors,
       commercial centers, or employment centers;
   (G) Amend land use regulations to allow for higher density or new moderate income
       residential development in commercial or mixed-use zones near major transit
       investment corridors;
(H) Amend land use regulations to eliminate or reduce parking requirements for
    residential development where a resident is less likely to rely on the resident's own
    vehicle, such as residential development near major transit investment corridors or
    senior living facilities;
(I) Amend land use regulations to allow for single room occupancy developments;
(J) Implement zoning incentives for moderate income units in new developments;
(K) Preserve existing and new moderate income housing and subsidized units by
    utilizing a landlord incentive program, providing for deed restricted units through a
    grant program, or, notwithstanding [Utah State Code] Section 10-9a-535,
    establishing a housing loss mitigation fund;
(L) Reduce, waive, or eliminate impact fees related to moderate income housing;
(M) Demonstrate creation of, or participation in, a community land trust program for
    moderate income housing;
(N) Implement a mortgage assistance program for employees of the municipality, an
    employer that provides contracted services to the municipality, or any other public
    employer that operates within the municipality;
(O) Apply for or partner with an entity that applies for state or federal funds or tax
    incentives to promote the construction of moderate income housing, an entity that
    applies for programs offered by the Utah Housing Corporation within that agency's
    funding capacity, an entity that applies for affordable housing programs
    administered by the Department of Workforce Services, an entity that applies for
    affordable housing programs administered by an association of governments
    established by an interlocal agreement under [Utah State Code] Title 11, Chapter 13,
    Interlocal Cooperation Act, an entity that applies for services provided by a public
    housing authority to preserve and create moderate income housing, or any other
    entity that applies for programs or services that promote the construction or
    preservation of moderate income housing;
(P) Demonstrate utilization of a moderate income housing set aside from a community
    reinvestment agency, redevelopment agency, or community development and
    renewal agency to create or subsidize moderate income housing;
(Q) Create a housing and transit reinvestment zone pursuant to [Utah State Code] Title
    63N, Chapter 3, Part 6, Housing and Transit Reinvestment Zone Act;
(R) Eliminate impact fees for any accessory dwelling unit that is not an internal
    accessory dwelling unit as defined in [Utah State Code] Section 10-9a-530;
(S) Create a program to transfer development rights for moderate income housing;
(T) Ratify a joint acquisition agreement with another local political subdivision for the
    purpose of combining resources to acquire property for moderate income housing;
(U) Develop a moderate income housing project for residents who are disabled or 55
    years old or older;
(V) Develop and adopt a station area plan in accordance with [Utah State Code] Section
    10-9a-403.1;
(W) Create or allow for, and reduce regulations related to, multifamily residential
    dwellings compatible in scale and form with detached single-family residential
       dwellings and located in walkable communities within residential or mixed-use
       zones; and
   (X) Demonstrate implementation of any other program or strategy to address the
       housing needs of residents of the municipality who earn less than 80% of the area
       median income, including the dedication of a local funding source to moderate
       income housing or the adoption of a land use ordinance that requires 10% or more
       of new residential development in a residential zone be dedicated to moderate
       income housing.

As a municipality with a fixed guide-way public transit station, Draper City is required to
implement strategy V from the list above; at least one (1) of the strategies G, H, or Q; and an
three (3) additional strategies for a total of five (5). The City can also choose to implement an
additional one (1) strategy for a total of six (6) to receive priority consideration for certain
transportation funding. With many strategies to select from, it is important to select
strategies that balance the needs of the existing community with those of future residents
and employees, particularly those with moderate incomes.

In an effort to assist the City in identifying defined targets that were measurable and
reasonably achievable, Draper City engaged Zions Bank to conduct a housing assessment to
help inform the Moderate Income Housing Plan elements of the 2019 General Plan. In 2022
Draper City again engaged Zions Bank to provide an update the 2019 housing assessment
to reflect the five (5) year implementation timeline (through the year 2027) as required by
the new State legislation. A copy of the updated study is included as Appendix A and the data
and general assessments are also considered as part of the overall Housing Plan.

The population of Draper City has grown by approximately 22.6% over the past decade, and
10% in the past five (5) years. The annual population growth trend is slowing, but continues
to remain close to a rate of two-percent (2%) per year. Using uniform and reliable data in
decision making and tracking the effectiveness of, and progress made, through programs
and policies is vital. The following data and statistics are provided here as important
benchmarks and considerations for use in evaluating and implementing plans related to the
creation and retention of Moderate Income Housing:

Current Population:
 Draper, UT                              Amount                  Notes:
 Total Population 2021                   51,749                  US Census Quick facts 2021
 Total Population 2017 / % increase      47,043 /10%             US Census Bureau
 from 2017-2021
 Total Population 2012 / % increase      42,212 / 22.6%          US Census Bureau
 from 2012-2021
 Total Households                         14,390              2020 American Community
                                                              Survey 5-Year Estimates
 Average Persons per Household            3.21                US Census Bureau
 Estimated Households between             1,887               2019 Zion’s Bank housing
 50% to 80% AMI                                               plan projection for 2023
 Estimated Households between             648                 2019 Zion’s Bank housing
 30% to 50% AMI                                               plan projection for 2023
 Estimated Households <30% AMI            961                 2019 Zion’s Bank housing
                                                              plan projection for 2023

Projected Population:
 Linear             2023           2024              2025      2026            2027
 (1%) Low:          52,789         53,317            53,850    54,389          54,933
 (2%) Medium:       53,840         54,916            56,015    57,135          58,278
 (3%) High:         54,901         56,548            58,244    59,991          61,791

 Linear             2028            2029             2030      2031            2032
 (1%) Low:          55,482          56,037           56,597    57,163          57,735
 (2%) Medium:       59,443          60,632           61,845    63,082          64,343
 (3%) High:         63,645          65,554           67,521    69,546          71,633

Current Housing Stock:
 Total Number of        15,590                                         2020 Decennial
 Housing Units                                                         Census
 Owner Occupied         12,129                     77.8%               S1101 2020:ACS 5
                                                                       Year Estimates
                                                                       Subject Tables
 Rental                 3,461                      22.2%               S1101 2020:ACS 5
                                                                       Year Estimates
                                                                       Subject Tables
 Number of Total        13                                             City Data
 ADU’s
 I-ADU’s                5                                              City Data
 D-ADU’s                8                                              City Data
 ADU’S in review        27                                             City Data

Fair Market Rent for Salt Lake City, UT HUD Metro FMR Area (Set by HUD):
                Efficiency/      One-              Two-       Three-          Four-
                Studio           Bedroom           Bedroom    Bedroom         Bedroom
 2021           $829             $1,001            $1,204     $1,690          $1,892
 2022           $924             $1,112            $1,327     $1,843          $2,066
Current Moderate Income Housing Availability and Need:
 (AMI for a family of 4)   <80% AMI       <50% AMI   <30% AMI



 Gross Income (upper       $73,750        $46,100    $27,650     SLCO.org and
 limit)                                                          HUD
 Gross Affordable Rent     $1,564         $873       $411        Calculated
 [30% percentage of
 Gross Income minus
 $280 for utilities]
 Estimated number of       1,873          217        0           DP04 Selected
 Housing units                                                   Housing
 affordable to target                                            Characteristics
 Households                                                      2020: ACS 5
                                                                 year estimates
                                                                 data profiles
 Approximate % of          8.1%           0.4%       0%          Calculated
 Housing units
 affordable to target
 Households
 Approximate               (27)           417        940         Calculated
 Additional units
 needed 2022
 Approximate               180            488        1046        Calculated
 Additional units
 needed 2027
 Approximate               387            559        1152        Calculated
 Additional units
 needed 2032

Projected Number of Target Households
                2023              2024       2025        2026     2027
 <80% AMI       1,887             1,928      1,970       2,011    2,053
 <50% AMI       648               662        676         691      705
 <30% AMI       961               982        1,003       1,025    1,046

                2028              2029       2030        2031     2032
 <80% AMI       2,094             2,135      2,177       2,218    2,260
 <50% AMI       719               733        747         762      776
 <30% AMI       1,067             1,088      1,109       1,131    1,152
Regulatory Environment:
The character of Draper City has historically been rural in nature consisting of large
residential lots and integrated agrarian uses, many of which still remain. Current residents
place significant public interest in maintaining the core character of the City as it contributes
to protection of the high quality of life they enjoy. Recent changes to zoning regulations to
allow for higher residential density, including specific adjustments to zoning near fixed
transit stations that have allowed for increased residential development have made some
progress in addressing Moderate Income Housing Needs. These have increased the total
number of apartment units in the City significantly. Public sentiment expressed during the
creation of the 2022 update to the Moderate Income Housing Plan highlighted that a better
balance between housing types used to providing Moderate Income Housing needs to be
achieved. Changes to ordinances regarding the Accessory Dwelling Units (ADU’s) in 2021
effectively ended the City’s prior policy of not monitoring ADU’s, and has done very little to
increase the overall supply of Moderate income Housing Units. A change in the definition of
a family in 2021 did lower barriers so that some less common household types could reside
together without the risk of enforcement. Skyrocketing regional housing prices and rents,
combined with slower wage growth, and historic inflation have exacerbated the demand for
Moderate Income Housing and will likely exert additional pressure to increase the amount
of available housing of all types within the City over the coming years.

Plans to meet the Moderate income Housing Need:
Draper City has selected to implement the following strategies that the legislature has
determined will encourage the creation of moderate income housing for residents and
employees residing and/or working within the city. (For initial draft the Staff identified
possibilities which were not favored by Planning Commission in their discussion meeting are in
italics)

   (D) Identify and utilize general fund subsidies or other sources of revenue to waive
       construction related fees that are otherwise generally imposed by the municipality for the
       construction or rehabilitation of moderate income housing;
   (E) Create or allow for, and reduce regulations related to, internal or detached accessory
       dwelling units in residential zones;
   (F) Zone or rezone for higher density or moderate income residential development in
       commercial or mixed-use zones near major transit investment corridors, commercial
       centers, or employment centers;
   (G) Amend land use regulations to allow for higher density or new moderate income
       residential development in commercial or mixed-use zones near major transit
       investment corridors;
   (H) Amend land use regulations to eliminate or reduce parking requirements for residential
       development where a resident is less likely to rely on the resident's own vehicle, such as
       residential development near major transit investment corridors or senior living facilities;
   (J) Implement zoning incentives for moderate income units in new developments;
   (L) Reduce, waive, or eliminate impact fees related to moderate income housing;
   (O) Apply for or partner with an entity that applies for state or federal funds or tax
       incentives to promote the construction of moderate income housing, an entity that
       applies for programs offered by the Utah Housing Corporation within that agency's
       funding capacity, an entity that applies for affordable housing programs
       administered by the Department of Workforce Services, an entity that applies for
       affordable housing programs administered by an association of governments
       established by an interlocal agreement under [Utah State Code] Title 11, Chapter 13,
       Interlocal Cooperation Act, an entity that applies for services provided by a public
       housing authority to preserve and create moderate income housing, or any other
       entity that applies for programs or services that promote the construction or
       preservation of moderate income housing;
   (V) Develop and adopt a station area plan in accordance with [Utah State Code] Section
       10-9a-403.1;

Implementation Plans:

Draper City has selected the following Moderate Income Housing Strategies for
implementation. These are based on current conditions and reasonably reliable data
projections. The included timelines are for reference as a general guide only and are not
able to account for all situations or barriers to implementation. They are intended to meet
the intent of the Utah State legislature in that they represent, “a reasonable opportunity for a
variety of housing including moderate income housing, to meet the needs of people of various
income levels living, working, or desiring to live or work in the community; and to allow people
with various incomes to benefit from and fully participate in all aspects of neighborhood and
community life” and to, “provide flexibility for the municipality to make adjustments as needed”.
The City may choose work on implementation in a different order than listed or may
modify the timeframe for completion depending on funding and feasibility.

 Selected Strategies
 Year     Selection         Proposed 5 year Implementation Plans
          (E) Create or allow for, and reduce regulations related to, internal or detached
          accessory dwelling units in residential zones.

 2023                         Evaluate current ADU ordinance and Permitting Process with
                              respects to potential streamlining for reducing the minimum
                              requirements for D-ADU’s and I-ADU’s in specific
                              circumstances. Specific examples may include allowances for
                              multiple ADUs on a property, reductions to the deviation
                      criteria for I-ADU’s in prohibited areas, and/or modifications to
                      the minimum lot sizes for D-ADU’s.

2027                  Reevaluate ADU ordinance to determine if additional
                      modifications are warranted.

       (F) Zone or rezone for higher density or moderate income residential
       development in commercial or mixed-use zones near major transit investment
       corridors, commercial centers, or employment centers.

2024                  Begin implementation of Town Center Station Area Plan by
                      amending the zoning map as applicable.

2025                  Continue the implementation of the Town Center Station Area
                      Plan by amending the zoning map as applicable

                      Implement the updated Vista Station Area Plan. Amend zoning
                      Map as applicable.

       (G) Amend land use regulations to allow for higher density or new moderate
       income residential development in commercial or mixed-use zones near major
       transit investment corridors.

2023                  Evaluate current mixed-use zones for potential to include
                      increased density when located near major transit investment
                      corridors, commercial centers, or employment centers where
                      units will meet targeted affordability thresholds.

                      Evaluate the feasibility of creating a mixed use zone for
                      targeted implementation near major transit investment
                      corridors.

2024                  Amend text of current mixed-use zones based on prior
                      evaluation of opportunities.

                      Begin implementation of Town Center Station Area Plan by
                      amending the text of the zoning ordinance to increase
                      residential densities as applicable.



2025                  Continue implementation of the Town Center Station Area
                      Plan by amending the text of the zoning ordinance as
                      applicable.
                           Implement the updated Vista Station Area Plan. Amend text of
                           the zoning ordinance to increase residential densities as
                           applicable.

          (J) Implement zoning incentives for moderate income units in new
          developments.

2026                       Initiate a study regarding potential zoning incentives that could
                           be granted that would have the effect of increasing the
                           number of Moderate Income Housing units.

2027                       Implement zoning incentives for developments that provide
                           deed restricted Moderate Income Housing.

          (O) Apply for or partner with an entity that applies for state or federal funds or
          tax incentives to promote the construction of moderate income housing, an
          entity that applies for programs offered by the Utah Housing Corporation
          within that agency's funding capacity, an entity that applies for affordable
          housing programs administered by the Department of Workforce Services, an
          entity that applies for affordable housing programs administered by an
          association of governments established by an interlocal agreement under Title
          11, Chapter 13, Interlocal Cooperation Act, an entity that applies for services
          provided by a public housing authority to preserve and create moderate
          income housing, or any other entity that applies for programs or services that
          promote the construction or preservation of moderate income housing.

2023                       Draper City will continue to partner with other Cities and Salt
through                    Lake County in pooling CDBG funds for use regionally inclusive
2027                       of funds utilized for affordable housing projects.

          (V) Develop and adopt a station area plan in accordance with Section 10-9a-
          403.1.
2023                       Complete and adopt the Town Center Station Area Plan. Plan
                           creation process begun in 2022.

2024                       Update existing Vista Station Area Plan and adopt changes as
                           necessary for compliance with minimum requirements of Utah
                           Code.

2025                       Evaluate Kimballs Lane Station Area for potential Station Area
                           Plan and/or waiver based on existing characteristics.
Evaluate 11400 S. Station area zoning and potential for a
waiver based on existing characteristics.

Create and adopt additional Station Area Plans as applicable
before December 31, 2025.
      EXHIBIT D
UTAH CODE 10-9A-403
 (EFFECTIVE 6/1/2022)
Utah Code


    Effective 6/1/2022
    10-9a-403 General plan preparation.
    (1)
      (a) The planning commission shall provide notice, as provided in Section 10-9a-203, of the
           planning commission's intent to make a recommendation to the municipal legislative body for
           a general plan or a comprehensive general plan amendment when the planning commission
           initiates the process of preparing the planning commission's recommendation.
      (b) The planning commission shall make and recommend to the legislative body a proposed
           general plan for the area within the municipality.
      (c) The plan may include areas outside the boundaries of the municipality if, in the planning
           commission's judgment, those areas are related to the planning of the municipality's territory.
      (d) Except as otherwise provided by law or with respect to a municipality's power of eminent
           domain, when the plan of a municipality involves territory outside the boundaries of
           the municipality, the municipality may not take action affecting that territory without the
           concurrence of the county or other municipalities affected.
    (2)
      (a) At a minimum, the proposed general plan, with the accompanying maps, charts, and
           descriptive and explanatory matter, shall include the planning commission's recommendations
           for the following plan elements:
        (i) a land use element that:
           (A) designates the long-term goals and the proposed extent, general distribution, and location
                of land for housing for residents of various income levels, business, industry, agriculture,
                recreation, education, public buildings and grounds, open space, and other categories of
                public and private uses of land as appropriate;
           (B) includes a statement of the projections for and standards of population density and
                building intensity recommended for the various land use categories covered by the plan;
           (C) except for a city of the fifth class or a town, is coordinated to integrate the land use
                element with the water use and preservation element; and
           (D) except for a city of the fifth class or a town, accounts for the effect of land use categories
                and land uses on water demand;
        (ii) a transportation and traffic circulation element that:
           (A) provides the general location and extent of existing and proposed freeways, arterial
                and collector streets, public transit, active transportation facilities, and other modes of
                transportation that the planning commission considers appropriate;
           (B) for a municipality that has access to a major transit investment corridor, addresses
                the municipality's plan for residential and commercial development around major
                transit investment corridors to maintain and improve the connections between housing,
                employment, education, recreation, and commerce;
           (C) for a municipality that does not have access to a major transit investment corridor,
                addresses the municipality's plan for residential and commercial development in areas that
                will maintain and improve the connections between housing, transportation, employment,
                education, recreation, and commerce; and
           (D) correlates with the population projections, the employment projections, and the proposed
                land use element of the general plan;
        (iii) for a specified municipality as defined in Section 10-9a-408, a moderate income housing
              element that:
           (A) provides a realistic opportunity to meet the need for additional moderate income housing
                within the next five years;


                                                    Page 1
Utah Code


           (B) selects three or more moderate income housing strategies described in Subsection (2)
                (b)(iii) for implementation, including one additional moderate income housing strategy as
                provided in Subsection (2)(b)(iv) for a specified municipality that has a fixed guideway
                public transit station; and
           (C) includes an implementation plan as provided in Subsection (2)(c); and
        (iv) except for a city of the fifth class or a town, a water use and preservation element that
              addresses:
           (A) the effect of permitted development or patterns of development on water demand and
                water infrastructure;
           (B) methods of reducing water demand and per capita consumption for future development;
           (C) methods of reducing water demand and per capita consumption for existing development;
                and
           (D) opportunities for the municipality to modify the municipality's operations to eliminate
                practices or conditions that waste water.
      (b) In drafting the moderate income housing element, the planning commission:
        (i) shall consider the Legislature's determination that municipalities shall facilitate a reasonable
              opportunity for a variety of housing, including moderate income housing:
           (A) to meet the needs of people of various income levels living, working, or desiring to live or
                work in the community; and
           (B) to allow people with various incomes to benefit from and fully participate in all aspects of
                neighborhood and community life;
        (ii) for a town, may include, and for a specified municipality as defined in Section 10-9a-408,
              shall include, an analysis of how the municipality will provide a realistic opportunity for the
              development of moderate income housing within the next five years;
        (iii) for a town, may include, and for other municipalities, shall include, a recommendation to
              implement three or more of the following moderate income housing strategies:
           (A) rezone for densities necessary to facilitate the production of moderate income housing;
           (B) demonstrate investment in the rehabilitation or expansion of infrastructure that facilitates
                the construction of moderate income housing;
           (C) demonstrate investment in the rehabilitation of existing uninhabitable housing stock into
                moderate income housing;
           (D) identify and utilize general fund subsidies or other sources of revenue to waive
                construction related fees that are otherwise generally imposed by the municipality for the
                construction or rehabilitation of moderate income housing;
           (E) create or allow for, and reduce regulations related to, internal or detached accessory
                dwelling units in residential zones;
           (F) zone or rezone for higher density or moderate income residential development in
                commercial or mixed-use zones near major transit investment corridors, commercial
                centers, or employment centers;
           (G) amend land use regulations to allow for higher density or new moderate income
                residential development in commercial or mixed-use zones near major transit investment
                corridors;
           (H) amend land use regulations to eliminate or reduce parking requirements for residential
                development where a resident is less likely to rely on the resident's own vehicle, such as
                residential development near major transit investment corridors or senior living facilities;
           (I) amend land use regulations to allow for single room occupancy developments;
           (J) implement zoning incentives for moderate income units in new developments;



                                                    Page 2
Utah Code


           (K) preserve existing and new moderate income housing and subsidized units by utilizing a
               landlord incentive program, providing for deed restricted units through a grant program, or,
               notwithstanding Section 10-9a-535, establishing a housing loss mitigation fund;
           (L) reduce, waive, or eliminate impact fees related to moderate income housing;
           (M) demonstrate creation of, or participation in, a community land trust program for moderate
               income housing;
           (N) implement a mortgage assistance program for employees of the municipality, an employer
               that provides contracted services to the municipality, or any other public employer that
               operates within the municipality;
           (O) apply for or partner with an entity that applies for state or federal funds or tax incentives
               to promote the construction of moderate income housing, an entity that applies for
               programs offered by the Utah Housing Corporation within that agency's funding capacity,
               an entity that applies for affordable housing programs administered by the Department of
               Workforce Services, an entity that applies for affordable housing programs administered
               by an association of governments established by an interlocal agreement under Title 11,
               Chapter 13, Interlocal Cooperation Act, an entity that applies for services provided by a
               public housing authority to preserve and create moderate income housing, or any other
               entity that applies for programs or services that promote the construction or preservation
               of moderate income housing;
           (P) demonstrate utilization of a moderate income housing set aside from a community
               reinvestment agency, redevelopment agency, or community development and renewal
               agency to create or subsidize moderate income housing;
           (Q) create a housing and transit reinvestment zone pursuant to Title 63N, Chapter 3, Part 6,
               Housing and Transit Reinvestment Zone Act;
           (R) eliminate impact fees for any accessory dwelling unit that is not an internal accessory
               dwelling unit as defined in Section 10-9a-530;
           (S) create a program to transfer development rights for moderate income housing;
           (T) ratify a joint acquisition agreement with another local political subdivision for the purpose
               of combining resources to acquire property for moderate income housing;
           (U) develop a moderate income housing project for residents who are disabled or 55 years
               old or older;
           (V) develop and adopt a station area plan in accordance with Section 10-9a-403.1;
           (W) create or allow for, and reduce regulations related to, multifamily residential dwellings
               compatible in scale and form with detached single-family residential dwellings and located
               in walkable communities within residential or mixed-use zones; and
           (X) demonstrate implementation of any other program or strategy to address the housing
               needs of residents of the municipality who earn less than 80% of the area median
               income, including the dedication of a local funding source to moderate income housing
               or the adoption of a land use ordinance that requires 10% or more of new residential
               development in a residential zone be dedicated to moderate income housing; and
        (iv) in addition to the recommendations required under Subsection (2)(b)(iii), for a municipality
             that has a fixed guideway public transit station, shall include a recommendation to
             implement:
           (A) the strategy described in Subsection (2)(b)(iii)(V); and
           (B) a strategy described in Subsection (2)(b)(iii)(G), (H), or (Q).
      (c)
        (i) In drafting the implementation plan portion of the moderate income housing element as
             described in Subsection (2)(a)(iii)(C), the planning commission shall establish a timeline for


                                                   Page 3
Utah Code


              implementing each of the moderate income housing strategies selected by the municipality
              for implementation.
        (ii) The timeline described in Subsection (2)(c)(i) shall:
           (A) identify specific measures and benchmarks for implementing each moderate income
                housing strategy selected by the municipality, whether one-time or ongoing; and
           (B) provide flexibility for the municipality to make adjustments as needed.
      (d) In drafting the land use element, the planning commission shall:
        (i) identify and consider each agriculture protection area within the municipality;
        (ii) avoid proposing a use of land within an agriculture protection area that is inconsistent with or
              detrimental to the use of the land for agriculture; and
        (iii) consider and coordinate with any station area plans adopted by the municipality if required
              under Section 10-9a-403.1.
      (e) In drafting the transportation and traffic circulation element, the planning commission shall:
        (i)
           (A) consider and coordinate with the regional transportation plan developed by the
                municipality's region's metropolitan planning organization, if the municipality is within the
                boundaries of a metropolitan planning organization; or
           (B) consider and coordinate with the long-range transportation plan developed by the
                Department of Transportation, if the municipality is not within the boundaries of a
                metropolitan planning organization; and
        (ii) consider and coordinate with any station area plans adopted by the municipality if required
              under Section 10-9a-403.1.
      (f) In drafting the water use and preservation element, the planning commission:
        (i) shall consider:
           (A) applicable regional water conservation goals recommended by the Division of Water
                Resources; and
           (B) if Section 73-10-32 requires the municipality to adopt a water conservation plan pursuant
                to Section 73-10-32, the municipality's water conservation plan;
        (ii) shall include a recommendation for:
           (A) water conservation policies to be determined by the municipality; and
           (B) landscaping options within a public street for current and future development that do not
                require the use of lawn or turf in a parkstrip;
        (iii) shall review the municipality's land use ordinances and include a recommendation for
              changes to an ordinance that promotes the inefficient use of water;
        (iv) shall consider principles of sustainable landscaping, including the:
           (A) reduction or limitation of the use of lawn or turf;
           (B) promotion of site-specific landscape design that decreases stormwater runoff or runoff of
                water used for irrigation;
           (C) preservation and use of healthy trees that have a reasonable water requirement or are
                resistant to dry soil conditions;
           (D) elimination or regulation of ponds, pools, and other features that promote unnecessary
                water evaporation;
           (E) reduction of yard waste; and
           (F) use of an irrigation system, including drip irrigation, best adapted to provide the optimal
                amount of water to the plants being irrigated;
        (v) shall consult with the public water system or systems serving the municipality with
              drinking water regarding how implementation of the land use element and water use and
              preservation element may affect:


                                                    Page 4
Utah Code


           (A) water supply planning, including drinking water source and storage capacity consistent
                with Section 19-4-114; and
           (B) water distribution planning, including master plans, infrastructure asset management
                programs and plans, infrastructure replacement plans, and impact fee facilities plans;
        (vi) may include recommendations for additional water demand reduction strategies, including:
           (A) creating a water budget associated with a particular type of development;
           (B) adopting new or modified lot size, configuration, and landscaping standards that will
                reduce water demand for new single family development;
           (C) providing one or more water reduction incentives for existing development such as
                modification of existing landscapes and irrigation systems and installation of water fixtures
                or systems that minimize water demand;
           (D) discouraging incentives for economic development activities that do not adequately
                account for water use or do not include strategies for reducing water demand; and
           (E) adopting water concurrency standards requiring that adequate water supplies and
                facilities are or will be in place for new development; and
        (vii) for a town, may include, and for another municipality, shall include, a recommendation for
              low water use landscaping standards for a new:
           (A) commercial, industrial, or institutional development;
           (B) common interest community, as defined in Section 57-25-102; or
           (C) multifamily housing project.
    (3) The proposed general plan may include:
      (a) an environmental element that addresses:
        (i) the protection, conservation, development, and use of natural resources, including the quality
              of:
           (A) air;
           (B) forests;
           (C) soils;
           (D) rivers;
           (E) groundwater and other waters;
           (F) harbors;
           (G) fisheries;
           (H) wildlife;
           (I) minerals; and
           (J) other natural resources; and
        (ii)
           (A) the reclamation of land, flood control, prevention and control of the pollution of streams
                and other waters;
           (B) the regulation of the use of land on hillsides, stream channels and other environmentally
                sensitive areas;
           (C) the prevention, control, and correction of the erosion of soils;
           (D) the preservation and enhancement of watersheds and wetlands; and
           (E) the mapping of known geologic hazards;
      (b) a public services and facilities element showing general plans for sewage, water, waste
           disposal, drainage, public utilities, rights-of-way, easements, and facilities for them, police and
           fire protection, and other public services;
      (c) a rehabilitation, redevelopment, and conservation element consisting of plans and programs
           for:
        (i) historic preservation;


                                                    Page 5
Utah Code


        (ii) the diminution or elimination of a development impediment as defined in Section 17C-1-102;
              and
        (iii) redevelopment of land, including housing sites, business and industrial sites, and public
              building sites;
      (d) an economic element composed of appropriate studies and forecasts, as well as an economic
           development plan, which may include review of existing and projected municipal revenue and
           expenditures, revenue sources, identification of basic and secondary industry, primary and
           secondary market areas, employment, and retail sales activity;
      (e) recommendations for implementing all or any portion of the general plan, including the
           adoption of land and water use ordinances, capital improvement plans, community
           development and promotion, and any other appropriate action;
      (f) provisions addressing any of the matters listed in Subsection 10-9a-401(2) or (3); and
      (g) any other element the municipality considers appropriate.

    Amended by Chapter 282, 2022 General Session
    Amended by Chapter 406, 2022 General Session
    Amended by Chapter 406, 2022 General Session, (Coordination Clause)




                                                 Page 6
    EXHIBIT E
PUBLIC COMMENTS
From:               chuck
To:                 Todd Draper
Subject:            Regarding HB 462
Date:               Sunday, August 28, 2022 8:16:24 AM




Todd,

This Bill is horrible, however it seems like Draper is already on the path they want based on all the apartments
getting shoved down our throats. The mindset that people will walk is foolish. I live in a neighborhood with a church
across the street from me. All the people around me drive!! 6-8 houses away, across the street, almost all,
particularly when there’s snow. There’s nothing in this law that is asking for “reduced” parking keeping those
apartment dwellers from owning F350’s. I’m from LA, I can assure you & the city council that all of these
apartments will be crime ridden within 10-20 years, I’ve seen it first hand. I work in many of these complexes right
now, here and in Sandy (nice towns) and I see the lack of cleanliness and respect for other people’s property all the
time. Based on what I’m seeing now, we have too many people already. Anything we can do to slow down, drag our
feet, whatever, should be tried. This implementation should be dragged out for years. Save this city, help!

Best,

Chuck Elliott
                         84020
From:          Ernest Cuatto
To:            Todd Draper
Subject:       Housing proposal
Date:          Friday, August 26, 2022 11:56:59 AM


We need Draper to create more affordable housing for our next generation and not apartments
only. Thanks
From:             Ferris Taylor
To:               Todd Draper
Subject:          RE: Comments on the General Plan amendment per HB 462
Date:             Thursday, September 1, 2022 4:46:57 PM
Attachments:      image001.png


Todd:

I don’t envy your task, especially with all these alternatives you are asking about. The first effort of
the effort will be to reduce and clarify all the options.

I’ve noted some comments in red on the options below. I recognize that my bias over the years is
that officials need to be very cautious in rezoning, where the community around the area have been
told, and depend on one thing and then officials change it. I lived 30 years outside of Boston and the
one thing that the community did literally 100 years ago was define what they were going to do,
where – kind of the General Plan you are working on (or adjusting) – and then that community has
essentially held to that plan for the last century.

Since moving here, it does seem that the community lacks an overall plan that is aligned with
zoning… and/or is constantly changing the rules. That creates a lot of distrust in the community and
more importantly, disrupts a lot of plans. I have already experienced it leading to a number of
lawsuits, a hodge podge of development and a lot of dissatisfied citizens.

I’ve been here only 18 years but I have to keep going to planning board and city council meetings for
discussions of zoning changes… primarily to accommodate developers or some property owners
desire to make more money. If a community can plan out what they want – and then stick to that
plan – the overall value of the entire community will go up.

That isn’t a popular opinion, but it is a statement of fact. And what gets done with the Prison site
will be the acid test for your General Plan.

Hopefully you can accomplish that – but Draper City’s last 18 years of history that I have experienced
hasn’t been good.

Ferris

Ferris W Taylor

Draper, Utah 84020
               90




From: Todd Draper <Todd.Draper@draperutah.gov>
Sent: Monday, August 29, 2022 9:35 AM
To: Ferris Taylor
Subject: RE: Comments on the General Plan amendment per HB 462

Ferris,

Thank you for your comments and feedback. I can assure you that the timing of the website posts
regarding the two separate applications was not connected in any way. Timing, maybe not, but what
is done with Geneva Rock definitely connects with what citizens expect from a General Plan – and
the intestinal fortitude to stick with it. I will forward your comments on the Geneva project over to
those in our office who are working with that issue. I had already submitted them to the
appropriate people. As for the General Plan update, the State of Utah requires Draper City to select
Moderate Income Housing strategies from a pre-determined list for incorporation into our General
Plan. Would you be willing to share with me which of the following strategies you believe would
benefit Draper City as a whole in pursuing and be the least likely to create the negative impacts you
are concerned about?:

          A. rezone for densities necessary to facilitate the production of moderate income housing;
             Maybe… but 80% of the area’s medium income has two problems – the definition of
             “area” and the fact that 80% of medium income, with focus on the part of individuals, can
             buy good housing. The other problem Draper City has is that the infrastructure hasn’t
             been put in place to support where you put the densities. I can’t believe the waste that
             goes on constantly tearing up roads or redoing roads, lights, etc. because they were not
             done right in the first place – with a General Plan. No

          B. demonstrate investment in the rehabilitation or expansion of infrastructure that facilitates
             the construction of moderate income housing; Definitely… but the zoning and planning
             has to be fixed – not always in flux as it seems to be. And definitely not simply to
             accommodate a developer, which I’m appalled at how much Draper City officials do for
             developers against the will of the citizens.

          C. demonstrate investment in the rehabilitation of existing uninhabitable housing stock into
             moderate income housing; I doubt there is much uninhabitable housing stock in Draper.
             It won’t do enough to meet any stated objectives.

          D. identify and utilize general fund subsidies or other sources of revenue to waive
             construction related fees that are otherwise generally imposed by the municipality for the
             construction or rehabilitation of moderate income housing; No. If the economics aren’t
             there for the builders to be successful, then don’t spent tax money to change the rules.

(E) create or allow for, and reduce regulations related to, internal or detached accessory dwelling
units in residential zones; No. It is crazy to see new homes stacked behind old farm houses and
putting more people into houses without parking and infrastructure makes no sense.

          E. zone or rezone for higher density or moderate income residential development in
             commercial or mixed-use zones near major transit investment corridors, commercial
             centers, or employment centers; No in general to rezoning. I can see more dense
   housing near transit corridors, and if that requires rezoning, maybe it should be
   considered. But sticking housing in commercial areas creates both an unsightly situation
   for everyone and mix of traffic that don’t belong together.

F. amend land use regulations to allow for higher density or new moderate income
   residential development in commercial or mixed-use zones near major transit investment
   corridors; Only if the additional General Plan specifications require construction that fits
   with the surrounding area. The look and feel and high density of mix of apartments above
   and below the Highland Drive/Traverse Ridge intersection is appalling – it is nothing be a
   hodge podge of modern, natural, cantilevered out over the road mess. And the first
   earthquake there are going to be apartments in the middle of the road, just as there have
   been car’s (Saundra Powell) hit, knocked 100’ over the railing and drivers killed.

G. amend land use regulations to eliminate or reduce parking requirements for residential
   development where a resident is less likely to rely on the resident's own vehicle, such as
   residential development near major transit investment corridors or senior living facilities;
    Not practical – the cars will be there anyway. What was the logic for the parking
   requirements to begin with? Stick with the decisions that were made. Stop changing
   things willy nilly.

H. amend land use regulations to allow for single room occupancy developments; Not only
   impractical, that isn’t the kind of living that Draper wants, in my estimation. I deal every
   day with a homeowner who has a different group of people staying at his home every
   night. It leads to tempers flaring, shootouts taking place and policy constantly coming and
   going.

 I. implement zoning incentives for moderate income units in new developments; Only if the
    moderate income units have a look and feel that is compatible with those around it.

 J. preserve existing and new moderate income housing and subsidized units by utilizing a
    landlord incentive program, providing for deed restricted units through a grant program,
    or, notwithstanding Section 10-9a-535, establishing a housing loss mitigation fund; It
    seems impractical, but if it isn’t done simply to line the landlord’s pockets, it might be
    worth considering.

K. reduce, waive, or eliminate impact fees related to moderate income housing; No. The
   General Plan has to be economically sustainable or it should be included.

L. demonstrate creation of, or participation in, a community land trust program for
   moderate income housing; Not sure I understand how the land trust would get connected
   to moderate income housing in an equitable way.

M. implement a mortgage assistance program for employees of the municipality, an employer
   that provides contracted services to the municipality, or any other public employer that
   operates within the municipality; Is this implying that employees of the City or
          contractors are not being paid an equitable wage. It sound like we are mixing wage issues
          with housing issues and I think those need to be separate.

       N. apply for or partner with an entity that applies for state or federal funds or tax incentives
          to promote the construction of moderate income housing, an entity that applies for
          programs offered by the Utah Housing Corporation within that agency's funding capacity,
          an entity that applies for affordable housing programs administered by the Department of
          Workforce Services, an entity that applies for affordable housing programs administered
          by an association of governments established by an interlocal agreement under Title 11,
          Chapter 13, Interlocal Cooperation Act, an entity that applies for services provided by a
          public housing authority to preserve and create moderate income housing, or any other
          entity that applies for programs or services that promote the construction or preservation
          of moderate income housing; (P) demonstrate utilization of a moderate income housing
          set aside from a community reinvestment agency, redevelopment agency, or community
          development and renewal agency to create or subsidize moderate income housing; I
          would not build a General Plan around all these programs, that seem to come and go.
          They don’t give a person the dignity of being self-sufficient and tend to make them more
          and more dependent upon government programs. We are digging the income pit deeper
          with some of these programs.

(Q) create a housing and transit reinvestment zone pursuant to Title 63N, Chapter 3, Part 6, Housing
and Transit Reinvestment Zone Act; Worth consideration

(R) eliminate impact fees for any accessory dwelling unit that is not an internal accessory dwelling
unit as defined in Section 10-9a-530; Not sure I have the expertise to say yes or no.

(S) create a program to transfer development rights for moderate income housing; No

(T) ratify a joint acquisition agreement with another local political subdivision for the purpose of
combining resources to acquire property for moderate income housing; Is the other political
subdivision another city like Bluffdale? If so all the cities should be working together on solutions,
not in isolation. The will be especially important with the development of the Prison Site.
(U) develop a moderate income housing project for residents who are disabled or 55 years old or
older; Don’t mix programs. We have housing that had been specified as 55 or older… and then
threw those requirements out the window. Same with the disabled. I do think those segments need
special accommodations but mixing in income requirements makes things too complicated.

(V) develop and adopt a station area plan in accordance with Section 10-9a-403.1 Not sure I have
the Section expertise to comment.

(W) create or allow for, and reduce regulations related to, multifamily residential dwellings
compatible in scale and form with detached single-family residential dwellings and located in
walkable communities within residential or mixed-use zones; and Sounds like it should be a
component of the General Plan
(X) demonstrate implementation of any other program or strategy to address the housing needs of
residents of the municipality who earn less than 80% of the area median income, including the
dedication of a local funding source to moderate income housing or the adoption of a land use
ordinance that requires 10% or more of new residential development in a residential zone be
dedicated to moderate income housing. Sounds like more mixing of programs that get more
complicated than the benefit they general.

I appreciate you additional thought and input. The responses we receive from the public prior to
September 2nd will be used to help inform the draft proposal that will be presented to the Planning
Commission for recommendation to the City Council.


Sincerely,

                     Todd A. Draper, AICP
                     Planner III | Community Development
                     1020 E. Pioneer Road, Draper, UT 84020
                     Office: 801-576-6335 | draperutah.gov

**Please note new email and website**
DRAPER CITY IS OPEN TO THE PUBLIC FROM 8:00 AM – 5:00 PM, MONDAY - FRIDAY.

This e-mail, including attachments, may contain confidential and/or proprietary information, and may be used
only by the person or entity to which it is addressed. If you have received this e-mail in error, please notify the
sender by replying to this message and delete this email immediately.


From: Ferris Taylor
Sent: Sunday, August 28, 2022 12:40 PM
To: Todd Draper <Todd.Draper@draperutah.gov>
Subject: Comments on the General Plan amendment per HB 462

Todd:

It was interesting to review the Draper City request to provide comments on the General Plan just
days after Draper City shared the application for Geneva Rock expansion. I’ll be brief in my
comments today, but will plan to read the General Plan in more detail before the meetings that have
been scheduled.

As a preface, I have attached below my input to the State on the Geneva Rock expansion. A number
of those comments are relevant to your considerations for more apartment buildings in Draper.

In addition to my Geneva Rock comments, I’ll provide the following:
       First and foremost, what does Draper, Bluffdale, Lehi (including Thanksgiving Point) and the
       State of Utah want to be? We can’t be all things to all people (that is impossible), but once
       billions of dollars have been spent in one direction, it is crazy to go in another direction. The
       Prison Site plans are going to have to be scrapped if we don’t address the Geneva Rock
         expansion, the State initiatives around Silicon Slopes, the importance of the hand gliding park
         (and I am not a hand glider) and all the other issues that pull us in opposite directions.
         On both sides of the Bangerter Parkway, as it heads up to Highland Drive, there are apartment
         complexes being built. One on the East hangs out over the road with no consideration of
         runoff or what happens to those buildings in an earthquake. Right across from it is a huge
         apartment complex that was allowed to dig back into Bangerter Parkway to the point that a
         neighbor of mine, Saundra Powell, was hit by a construction truck, knocked clear over the
         guardrail and fell 100’ to her death in the apartment parking lot.
         Are we going to expand housing in Draper to the point that even more lives are lost?
         We now have stop lights every few hundred feet on both Highland Drive and Bangerter. As
         housing continues to expand, we are just having more cars idling at stop lights (or cars
         running the lights) compounding the safety, health and well-being of the citizens of Draper
         City.
         Resolutions to disallow multiple axle trucks on major roads won’t withstand the legal
         challenges and will do nothing to solve the condensed housing already approved, which are
         probably just lining the pockets of the developers rather than rationally addressing the
         community issues which everyone is concerned about.

I’ll see you at the meetings,

Ferris

Ferris W Taylor

Draper, Utah 84020




                  Input provided on the Geneva Rock Expansion Application:

                  As a homeowner that actually shows up in the upper right-hand corner of the above
                  aerial photo, I have a number of comments with respect to the negative impacts of
                  the Geneva Rock application to expand their operations. I find it very difficult to
                  come up with any positive comments. In fact, I am offended by a number of the
                  false or greatly exaggerated claims in the application and the obvious hiding of very
                  important facts that now seem to be ignored.

                  Has anyone taken off their corporate or politically elected hats, and just thought
                  about the overall implications of approving this application? Does anyone, other
                  than some political leaders or Geneva Rock executives really believe some of the
                  significant claims stated in the application? Also note that I am not buying into the
                  overall Geneva Rock core argument that they are doing the neighboring
                  communities, counties (Salt Lake and Utah), or the State of Utah such a great service
                  by mining rock at the Point of the Mountain and absolutely know that they do
nothing or very little to abate the serious dust problems that occur almost daily on
South Mountain. This is all about money and has nothing to do with service to
anyone.

Here are critical considerations (and I’ll try to avoid arguing specifics contained in the
425 pages of the highly edited application and the 2007-2008 responses – the edits
in red themselves show additional attempts to “sugar coat” what is really going on
and justify the plans they have for expansion):
     · Any rational individual, looking at the facts and the conditions of this mining
         operation and where it is at, would reject it on a dozen different bases –
         even if it pretends meets whatever legislators (who don’t live next to Geneva
         Rock) and/or the long-outdated regulations might require. As fair warning,
         the citizens in this part of the valley will revolt if this application goes
         forward.
     · Most important, it is time for the citizens, communities, counties and the
         State of Utah to decide/choose what this part of the valley is going to be – a
         huge and unsightly gravel pit that will eventually be a “mini-Kennecott” or a
         part of the cities growing rapidly on both sides of the already existing scared
         and destroyed landscape that is Geneva Rock.
     · I don’t see any reference to the investment of time and money (and the
         stated goals and objectives) of the huge endeavor to move the Utah State
         Prison (so residential and retail development can take place on the current
         property). This application for a 75 year expansion totally flies in the face of
         all the plans for the Utah State Prison site. To approve the application and
         expand and unsightly gravel pit in the middle of those future plans is just
         insane.
     · In addition, the affected communities have approved and are building
         hundreds of houses and literally thousands of apartments all around the
         current gravel pit, even before expansion. This property will become an ugly
         albatross. Reading the application, somehow it is trying to convince us that
         expanding Geneva Rock might be okay, in some way? As stated, is anyone in
         a decision-making position on the application thinking like a rational human
         being?
     · With the Prison site redevelopment, and all the residential construction,
         does anyone believe that we have the infrastructure in place to deal with
         1200 trucks a day coming out of Geneva Rock? The 1200 trucks, per the
         application, on that frontage road, and then merging into the already
         existing traffic on Highland Drive, is a disaster waiting to happen. We have
         already had individuals killed because of improper roads and apartments
         digging back into the Bangerter/Traverse Ridge road where a neighbor’s car
         was hit by a construction truck and knocked over the siderails and 100’ to
         the apartment parking area. Get a picture of the Geneva Rock expansion
         plans in your mind, and then think through what it will look like and how
         dangerous it will be.
     · I already have to plan on 1-2 windshield replacements every year (or
    multiple rock chip repairs, if I am lucky) as I get on I-15 at 14600 South.
    There is nothing that can be done to stop Geneva Rock truck tires from
    throwing rocks as they get up to freeway speed, totally independent from all
    the dirt and rocks blowing off the loads of gravel or falling off the edge of the
    trucks and trailers. And maneuvering around those trucks as they get going
    on I-15… or as they exit to go back to Geneva Rock is not just an accident
    waiting to happen… it is a cause of accidents much too frequently.
·    The State prides itself as being the new Silicon Slopes, replacing California’s
    Silicon Valley with what – a gravel pit right in the middle of it. Again, who do
    we think we are kidding! The rest of the world sees it so why don’t we?
·    And, of course, we also like to promote that the hand gliding park is one of
    the Top 10 places in the world to handglide and paraglide – Great PR for the
    State of Utah. But… do you really believe that removing the mountain and
    digging a hole hundreds of feet deep in the ground won’t affect updrafts at
    the Point of the Mountain? Are we thinking through this with any degree of
    logic?
·    Times change and what might have seemed okay 75 years ago, is already
    unacceptable today. Even more absurd is to think about what it means and
    might look like 75 years from now when this gravel pit might cease
    operations. Is anyone thinking? Lights on, but nobody is home upstairs in
    our minds?
·    Has anyone imagined what a huge hole in the ground on both sides of I-15
    will look like, down to a level of 4400’ elevation. That is 25 feet below the
    flowing Jordan River (page 23) on the West side of I-15? Besides defying all
    logic is saying this will be okay, I see nothing that gives any assurance that
    the pit won’t fill with water. After all, water runs downhill. And what will be
    the accident rate on I-15, where there are already accidents almost every
    day, when I-15 is this elevated causeway up in the air going around the Point
    of the Mountain. Think about it. It is mind boggling that any rational
    individual would even consider something like this.
·    From the maps in the application, the highest point of the quarry area is at
    about 6000’. With the excavation, whether it is a 1:1 slope or a 1.5:1 slope,
    there will be a 1600 foot wall at the Point of the Mountain. Who is that
    acceptable to… except politicians who receive their donations from Geneva
    Rock and Geneva Rock, itself. It will not be acceptable to Utah citizens or
    visitors.
·    Living directly East of Geneva Rock for almost 20 years has been abysmal. I
    had no idea that January when we bought this home what a monstrosity we
    would have right next door. We cannot have our windows open in our home
    without having a coat of dirt and sand on everything within a couple of days.
    I had gutters that wouldn’t drain and then discovered, not leaves in the
    gutters, but more than an inch of dirt in them… all the way around the
    house. And the lawn is now 2 inches higher than the sidewalks – not
    because it was planted that way, but because over the years, the grass has
    continually been filled with dirt. In another 20 years, the grass will be 4
    inches higher than the sidewalk. Now… how does that much dirt get clear
    up there into the gutters or spread around all the lawn. I saved a 5 gallon
    bucket of the dirt, just to show other people what was in my gutters. Any
    guess where it came from – Geneva Rock and the other gravel pit operators?
·    And our house shakes often when Geneva Rock is blasting. Maybe it meets
    the .23 inch shake measure (half of closing a door) as presented in the
    application, but that is acceptable? That is the equivalent of sliders or doors
    opening all during the day and night at your house? And their stated
    operations are going to be 20 hours a day/6 days a week… unless deemed
    necessary to go to 24/7 for greed and profit reasons… All of this is at the
    expense of the quiet enjoyment of 1000’s of people who now live all around,
    and above, Geneva Rock?
·    I also question the stability of the geographic around a gravel pit of this size,
    if it is approved. We know Rio Tinto/Kennocott has had huge slides and
    significant instability. Will anything or anyone be safe if the Geneva Rock
    mining operations are approved.
·    If Geneva Rock claims any successful wet suppression of blowing dirt… it is a
    flat out lie. I won’t repeat what is already said in so many of the letters in
    the application. But they confirm what we all know - that the dust clouds
    can be seen often from anywhere in the valley – and on either side of the
    mountain. If the daily observations don’t match the claims made in the
    application, why is this discussion still continuing.
·    The deleted “Air Quality” section on page 32 tells a huge story. Now it just
    reads “Dust will have a limited impact. Fugitive dust generated from
    operations are mitigated and controlled with water.” No one, other than
    Geneva Rock executives sitting in their office in Orem or consultants they
    have hired, believe that? Does that statement represent at all with what we
    see and know today. If they are not controlling the dust now, what makes us
    think they will do anything different in the future?
·    I am not a doctor but have worked in the healthcare field for 30 years. We
    have no idea what the medical implications of continuing to breathe the dust
    from Geneva Rock might be – as I had stated, inches of dirt. We have
    learned a lot about health and well-being in the last 75 years, but 75 years
    ago Geneva Rock wasn’t that close to so many people. We have even
    learned a lot more since 2007/2008 when the last input was so extensive.
    And we will know even more in another 5 or 10 years about the medical
    conditions caused by and/or aggravated by the contamination Geneva Rock
    is creating. I can’t imagine the impact this expansion would have on my
    grandchildren here. We don’t absolutely know, but we know enough to say
    “No!” We like to get up in arms about climate control. Let’s get wise about
    controlling the contamination taking place at the Point of the Mountain, and
    make a decision which will eliminate it from becoming significantly more
    hazardous.
·    It is hilarious that Geneva Rock claims, in concurrent reclamation, to have
    installed barriers to “block wind!” Can any rational human living on either
         side of South Mountain believe that anything can block the wind at the Point
         of the Mountain? The mountain tries, but now we are going to let Geneva
         Rock tear the mountain down. And then in the same sentence (middle of
         page 25), they claim to “reduce off-site dust?” And if we are stupid and
         gullible enough to believe all that, still in the same sentence they say they
         “improve aesthetics!” The mining is already an embarrassment to anyone
         traveling I-15, but even worse, to anyone living near South Mountain. There
         are no aesthetics left! What are we smoking?

It is time to stop the insanity. It is time for Geneva Rock to recognize that it has been
a good 75 years… and go find a place where they can do business for the next 75
years. Times change and communities change and this business is no longer
compatible in any way with what has grown up all around the Point of the Mountain.

Continuing to do what we have always done… and expecting a different outcome, is
exactly what is happening here with the approval of this application to expand
Geneva Rock mining operations. It is just a plain old gravel pit, down to 100’s of feet
below any of the surrounding area and down more than 1600’ from where they say
they will stop mining 75 years from now.

To quote the United States Senate Chaplin Barry Black in one of his opening prayers
at the start of the day in the Senate, “Father, forgive us our hypocrisy in trying to
sound rationale while behaving irrationally! Rise up, O God, and save us from
ourselves!”

That is exactly my plea. I hope somewhere there is someone with decision-making
power that can hear that plea and will deny this application. Please!

Ferris
From:         Michael Spencer
To:           Todd Draper
Subject:      More housing
Date:         Friday, September 2, 2022 10:51:53 AM


Great idea Todd, we need more people in Draper!

I mean our roads are in great shape and traffic flows easily up and down Draper
Park(ing lot)Way!

We are facing water and electricity limitations, I'm sure 50 thousand more homes
wont matter?

I-15 could easily handle 50% more cars!


Are you stoned right now? Did you learn this retarded rational from your dipshit boss
Troy?

While your at it, why not bring back the homeless society refuge?

You and Troy are living proof why cousins shouldn't marry!


What are you thinking, oh ya, you're not!

Suck it!
