NovusAGENDA
CITY COUNCIL AGENDA August 15, 2023 at 6:30 PM
1020 E. Pioneer Rd. Draper, UT 84020 Council Chambers 6:30 PM STUDY MEETING 1. Closed Session - By Motion The Draper City Council may temporarily recess the regular meeting and convene in a closed session to discuss the character, professional competence, or physical or mental health of an individual, pending or reasonably imminent litigation, or the purchase, exchange, or lease of real property, as provided by UCA 52-4-205.
a 2. Council/Manager Reports a 7:00 PM   BUSINESS MEETING 1. Call to Order 2. Thought/Prayer and Pledge of Allegiance 3. Public Comments To be considerate of everyone attending the meeting, public comments will be restricted to items that are not listed on this or a future agenda and limited to three minutes per person. Comments which cannot be made within these limits should be submitted in writing to the City Recorder prior to noon the day before the meeting. Comments pertaining to an item on the agenda should not be given at this time but should be held until that item is called. 4. Consent Items a. Approval of July 11, 2023, City Council Meeting Minutes b. Approval of Resolution #23-40 A Resolution reappointing Cal Roberts as a member of the Draper City Audit Committee.  c. Approval of Resolution #23-41 A Resolution appointing Shivam Shah and Laura Fidler as alternate members of the Draper City Planning Commission.  d. Approval of Resolution #23-42 A Resolution of the Draper City Council amending Section 1020 of the Personnel Policies and Procedures Manual regarding Definitions. Staff: Malena Murray e. Approval of Resolution #23-43 A Resolution appointing Silvia Araoz to the Draper City Diversity and Inclusion Advisory Committee. f. Approval of Resolution #23-44 A Resolution appointing Ben Pattison to the Draper City Special Event Arena Committee.  5. Action Item: Resolution #23-45 A Resolution of the Draper City Council approving and extending the Proclamation of Local Emergency No. 2 of 2023 concerning damage caused by torrential rain.  a 6. Public Hearing: Providing Local Consent for a Full Service Restaurant alcohol license for Boondocks Food & Fun - Draper LLC Staff report by Travis DeJong a 7. Public Hearing: Providing Local Consent for an On Premises Banquet alcohol license for Boondocks Food & Fun - Draper LLC Staff report by Travis DeJong a 8. Public Hearing: Providing Local Consent for an On Premises Beer Retailer alcohol license for Boondocks Food & Fun - Draper LLC Staff report by Travis DeJong a 9. Adjournment SALT LAKE COUNTY AND UTAH COUNTY, STATE OF UTAH I, the City Recorder of Draper City, certify that copies of the agenda for the Draper City Council meeting to be held August 15, 2023 , were posted at Draper City Hall, Draper City website www.draperutah.gov , and the Utah Public Notice website at www.utah.gov/pmn . Date Posted: August 11, 2023 Laura Oscarson, CMC, City Recorder  Draper City, State of Utah   In compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act, any individuals needing special accommodations or services during this meeting shall notify Laura Oscarson, City Recorder at (801) 576-6502 or laura.oscarson@draperutah.gov , at least 24 hours prior to the meeting.