                                  Development Review Committee
                                       1020 East Pioneer Road
                                         Draper, UT 84020
                                         October 19, 2023

To:               Draper City Planning Commission
                  Business Date: November 9, 2023

From:             Development Review Committee

Prepared By: Todd A. Draper, AICP, Planning Manager
             Planning Division
             Community Development Department
             801-576-6335, todd.draper@draperutah.gov

Re:      Ambyr T. Lindsay, Inc. Home Occupation – Conditional Use Permit Request
         Application No.: HOCC-6837-2023
         Applicant:        Ambyr Lindsay, representing Ambyr T. Lindsay, Inc. Ambyr
                           Lindsay, Terry Young, and Laurie Young
         Project Location: 12972 S. Brook Haven Cv.
         Current Zoning: R3 (Residential Single-Family, 13,000 ft² min. lot size) Zone
         Acreage:          0.36 Acres (Approximately 15,682 ft2)
         Request:          Request for approval of a Home Occupation Conditional Use
                           Permit in the R3 zone to allow for a home occupation providing
                           cosmetology and barbering Personal Care Services.



BACKGROUND AND SUMMARY
This application is a request for approval of a Conditional Use Permit for approximately
0.36 acres located on the west side of Brook Haven Cv., at approximately 12972 S. Brook
Haven Cv. (Exhibit B & C). The property is currently zoned R3. The applicant is requesting
that a Conditional Use Permit be approved to allow for a home occupation providing
cosmetology and barbering, classified as Personal Care Services.

The existing single-family home was built in 1994. The applicant has indicated that they will
be operating a salon from a studio near the front entry to the home (Exhibit G).




Ambry T. Lindsay, Inc. Home Occupation                             App. # HOCC-6837-2023
Conditional Use Permit Request                  1
ANALYSIS
General Plan and Zoning.

 Table 1                    General Plan and Zoning Designations                     Exhibit
 Existing Land Use          Residential Medium Density                               Exhibit D
 Current Zoning             R3                                                       Exhibit E
 Proposed Use               Home Occupation – Personal Care Services
 Adjacent Zoning
     East                   R3
     West                   R3
     North                  R3
     South                  R3

The Residential Medium Density land use designation is characterized as follows:




According to Draper City Municipal Code (DCMC) Section 9-8-020 the purpose of the R3
zone is to “permit medium density residential development without special mitigation




Ambry T. Lindsay, Inc. Home Occupation                                 App. # HOCC-6837-2023
Conditional Use Permit Request                   2
requirements. This zone is intended to provide incentives to foster residential development with
little impact on its surroundings and on municipal services, and to generally preserve the
semirural character called for in the density element of the general plan.”

Site Plan Layout. The provided site and floor plan layout (Exhibit F) shows the salon being
located near to the front entry to the home. Customers would park in the driveway. There
will be no signage or other changes made to the exterior of the building or yards that
would indicate that the property was being use for anything other than a single-family
dwelling.

 Table 2                       Site Plan Design Requirements
 Standard                      DCMC Requirements          Proposal              Notes
 Lot/Parcel Size               13,000 ft² min             15,682 ft²
 Street Frontage               50-feet min
 Setback-
    Front                      25-feet                    25-feet
    Rear                       20-feet                    69-feet
    Side                       10-feet                    10-feet
    Side                       10-feet                    10-feet



Parking. According to the applicants provided statements (Exhibit G) customers coming to
the home can park on the driveway. The existing driveway is only about twenty-two feet
(22’) wide. Customers who park in the driveway would block access to the required parking
located inside the attached garage for use by residents of the single-family dwelling,
including the business owner’s parents. Public parking is located on the street in front of
the home, however use of this does not comply with the standard home occupation criteria
and could impact other neighborhood residents. To mitigate potential impacts to the
neighborhood, staff recommends that as a condition of approval one additional on-site
paved parking space be added to the south side of the existing driveway.

 Table 6                       Parking Requirements
 Standard                      DCMC Requirements    Proposal                     Notes
 Parking Required
 (Min/Max)
    Single-Family              2 spaces in a Garage,      2 spaces (see note     DCMC 9-25-
    Dwelling                   plus on-site parking for   regarding tandem       060(F): Tandem
                               business use.              spaces).               parking spaces
                                                                                 shall count
                                                                                 toward required
                                                                                 parking as only
                                                                                 a single parking




Ambry T. Lindsay, Inc. Home Occupation                                   App. # HOCC-6837-2023
Conditional Use Permit Request                      3
                                                                                    space per
                                                                                    pairing
     Home Occupation           All parking shall be       On-site business
                               provided and               parking would park
                               maintained on site.        in the tandem
                                                          spaces already
                                                          counted as required
                                                          parking.
 Access Point Width            10-feet min.               22-feet
                               30-feet max.

Home Occupation. The DCMC Section 9-34-040 outlines development standards applicable
to all home occupations. Those criteria, along with information specific to the subject
request, are as follows:

         A. Ownership: The home occupation shall be owned and operated by a person who
             resides in the dwelling where the home occupation is located. Such person shall be
             the primary provider of the labor, work, or service provided in the home occupation.

         The home occupation will be owned by the applicant who resides at the home. They
         indicated in their responses (Exhibit G) that they are the only owner, employer and
         employee of the business.

         B. Business License: A business license for the home occupation shall be obtained from
             and continually maintained with the city pursuant to title 6, chapter 11 of this code.

         The applicant indicated that they will maintain a Draper City business license.

         C. Employees: Members of the family of the owner who reside in the dwelling may be
             employed in the home occupation. Nonfamily or nonresident employees shall be
             limited to one person.

         The applicant indicated that if they do have employees in the future that they will
         only do so in compliance with this requirement limiting it to family members who
         reside in the dwelling.

         D. Inspection: All facilities shall comply with fire, building, plumbing, electrical and all
             other city, county, state and federal codes. Inspections during reasonable hours by
             city officials may occur as necessary to assure compliance with regulations.

         In correspondence with staff the applicant indicated that interior remodeling of the
         home has occurred to accommodate the salon. This included additional pumping
         fixtures, electrical, wall and door installations. Building permits and inspections of



Ambry T. Lindsay, Inc. Home Occupation                                      App. # HOCC-6837-2023
Conditional Use Permit Request                        4
         work done without required permits will be necessary. The applicant is working with
         the Chief Building official to remedy this. The applicant has agreed to comply with
         other applicable regulations as well as submit to required inspections.

         E. Inventory: No stock in trade, inventory, or other merchandise to exceed two hundred
             fifty (250) square feet shall be kept on the premises. No outside storage is allowed.

         The applicant has indicated that they will not exceed the 250 ft² of allowed inventory
         as they typically to not require space for inventory needs.

         F. Modification Of Structures Or Yards: There shall be no visible evidence from the
             exterior of a dwelling that it is being used for any other purpose than that of a
             dwelling. No activities shall be carried on outside the dwelling in the yard for the
             benefit of or incidental to the home occupation. No front yard area shall be altered to
             provide parking required for a home occupation.

         The applicant stated that they do not intend to make changes to the yard areas.

         G. Nuisance: Tools, items, equipment, or activities conducted within the dwelling which is
             offensive or noxious by reason of the emission of odor, smoke, gas, vibration,
             magnetic interference, or noise shall be prohibited.

         The applicant has indicated that their business is conducted indoors and will not be
         a nuisance.

         H. Secondary Use: The home occupation shall be clearly incidental and secondary to the
             primary use of the dwelling for residential purposes. The home occupation shall not
             disrupt the normal residential character of the neighborhood in which the residence
             is located. Not more than twenty five percent (25%) of the dwelling unit shall be used
             for the home occupation.

         The Salon in reportedly only 200 ft² in size, and occupies only approximately 4% of
         the dwelling unit. The primary use of the dwelling is as a dwelling.

         I. Signs: All signage in a residential area must comply with chapter 26, "Signs", of this title.

         No signs are proposed with this application.

         J. Traffic, Parking, And Access: No home occupation use shall generate pedestrian,
              parking, or vehicular traffic in excess of that customarily associated with the zone in
              which the use is located. All parking shall be provided and maintained on site with
              adequate provision for drop off traffic.




Ambry T. Lindsay, Inc. Home Occupation                                      App. # HOCC-6837-2023
Conditional Use Permit Request                      5
         The applicant indicates that their clients will be asked to park in the driveway, but
         that clients may park on the street. The applicant also stated that they may have up
         to two clients at the property at one time. On-site parking consists of a two car
         garage with tandem parking behind the garage doors. The applicant’s parents also
         co-own the home with her and reside at the property.

         K. Vehicles: Other than the business owner's personal transportation, there shall be no
             vehicles or equipment on the property associated with the home occupation which
             would not normally be found at a residence. No signage for the home occupation
             shall be allowed on vehicles.

         The applicant states that there are no business vehicles associated with the
         business. Only personal passenger vehicles will be on site.

         L. Yards: Yards surrounding the dwelling and accessory buildings shall not be used for
             any activities or storage of any materials associated with the home occupation.

         The business will not utilize the yard areas outside of the parking and

         M. Customers: No customers allowed. Children accessing a limited daycare or limited
            preschool facility shall not be considered customers.

         The applicant is requesting as part of the conditional use permit to deviate from this
         criterion. They would like to have up to two customers at a time be at the home.
         They did state that there is only one salon chair. Having customers at the home is
         customary for a personal care service business.

         N. Utility Demand: The home occupation shall not cause a demand for public utilities in
             excess of that necessarily and customarily provided for residential uses.

         The proposed Home occupation will not create additional demand for utilities above
         what would be necessary or customary for a residential use.

         O. Main Structure: The home occupations shall be conducted, located, and contained
            within the primary structure on the property.

         The proposed business is located wholly within the primary structure and complies
         with this requirement.

         P. Single-Family And Multiple-Family Dwellings: Home occupations listed as permitted or
             conditional within this title may be permitted in a single-family or a multiple-family
             dwelling, subject to the standards found within this section and section 9-34-060 of
             this chapter. Businesses within multiple-family dwellings shall provide an approval



Ambry T. Lindsay, Inc. Home Occupation                                   App. # HOCC-6837-2023
Conditional Use Permit Request                    6
             letter from the respective homeowners' association, or management company in the
             case of apartments, if the business proposes any employees, customers or business
             vehicles.

         The business owner and operator is a co-owner of the home. The dwelling is a
         single-family dwelling and the provisions related to multi-family dwellings do not
         apply.

         Q. Licensure: Any home occupation involving childcare shall comply with all applicable
             state and local laws and regulations regarding residential childcare, including, but
             not limited to, provisions of the Utah child care licensing act, as set forth in Utah
             Code Annotated section 26-39-101 et seq., as amended, and the residential certificate
             childcare standards as set forth in the Utah administrative code section R430-50-1 et
             seq., as amended. In addition, cottage food production operations are regulated and
             inspected by the Utah department of agriculture. Any food related home occupation
             under their jurisdiction must comply with these regulations.

         The proposed business use does not include childcare or cottage food production.

The applicant has indicated through their statements (Exhibit G) that the home based
business consists of a hair salon and cosmetology studio that they operate only three days
per week on Tuesday, Thursday, and Saturday from 9:00 am to 6:00 pm. They book clients
at a maximum of 2 at a time.

Criteria For Approval.
The criteria for review and potential approval of a conditional use permit request is found
in Section 9-5-080(E) of the DCMC. This section depicts the standard of review for such
requests as:

         E. Approval Standards: The standards of this subsection shall apply to the issuance of a
             conditional use permit:
          1. A conditional use permit may be issued for a use to be located within a zone where
             the particular conditional use is allowed by the use regulations of the zone.
          2. Reasonable conditions may be imposed as necessary to substantially mitigate
             reasonably anticipated detrimental effects of the proposed use. These conditions may
             include conditions concerning use, construction, character, location, landscaping,
             screening, parking, hours of operation, and other matters relating to the purposes
             and objectives of this section. Such conditions shall be expressly set forth in the
             motion authorizing the conditional use permit.
          3. If the reasonably anticipated detrimental effects of a proposed conditional use
             cannot be substantially mitigated by the imposition of reasonable conditions to
             achieve compliance with applicable standards, the conditional use may be denied.




Ambry T. Lindsay, Inc. Home Occupation                                 App. # HOCC-6837-2023
Conditional Use Permit Request                   7
          4. The following factors shall be reviewed and considered in determining whether a
             conditional use permit application should be approved, approved with conditions, or
             denied because reasonable conditions cannot be imposed to achieve compliance with
             applicable standards:
              a. The harmony and compliance of the proposed use with the objectives and
                  requirements of the city's general plan and this title;
              b. The suitability of the specific property for the proposed use;
              c. Whether the proposed use or facility may be injurious to potential or existing
                  development in the vicinity;
              d. The economic impact of the proposed facility or use on the surrounding area;
              e. The aesthetic impact of the proposed facility or use on the surrounding area;
              f. The safeguards proposed or provided to ensure adequate utilities, transportation
                  access, drainage, parking, loading space, lighting, screening, landscaping, open
                  space, fire protection, and pedestrian and vehicular circulation;
              g. The safeguards provided or proposed to prevent noxious or offensive emissions
                  such as noise, glare, dust, pollutants and odor from the proposed facility or use;
                  and
              h. The impact of the proposed facility or use on the health, safety, and welfare of the
                  city, the area, and persons owning or leasing property in the area.
          5. The planning commission may request additional information as may be reasonably
             needed to determine whether the requirements of this subsection E can be met.



REVIEWS

Planning Division Review. The Draper City Planning Division has completed their review of
the Conditional Use Permit submission. Comments from this division, if any, can be found
in Exhibit A.

Engineering and Public Works Divisions Review. The Draper City Engineering and Public
Works Divisions have completed their reviews of the Conditional Use Permit submission.
Comments from these divisions, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Building Division Review. The Draper City Building Division has completed their review of the
Conditional Use Permit submission. Comments from this division, if any, can be found in
Exhibit A.

Fire Division Review. The Draper City Fire Marshal has completed his review of the
Conditional Use Permit submission. Comments from this division, if any, can be found in
Exhibit A.

Noticing. Notice has been properly issued in the manner outlined in the City and State
Codes.



Ambry T. Lindsay, Inc. Home Occupation                                   App. # HOCC-6837-2023
Conditional Use Permit Request                    8
STAFF RECOMMENDATION
Staff recommends that the Planning Commission review the request, receive public
comment, and make a decision based on the findings listed below and the criteria for
approval, or denial, as listed within the staff report.

If the Planning Commission decides to approve the request, staff recommends they include
the following conditions of approval:

         1. That all requirements of the Draper City Engineering, Public Works, Building,
            Planning, and Fire Divisions are satisfied throughout the development of the site
            and the construction on the site, including permitting.
         2. That the days of operation be limited as proposed by the applicant to three days
            per week, Tuesday, Thursday, and Saturday.
         3. That the hours of operation be limited to 9:00 am to 6:00 pm
         4. That one additional paved parking stall meeting the minimum size standards of
            ordinance be added to the south side of the existing driveway for the use of
            customers coming to the home.
         5. That the applicant obtain a building permit for construction work related to
            internal modifications made to the home to create the salon.

The findings for approval as are follows:

         1. Reasonable mitigation measures can be placed on the conditional use to
            alleviate anticipated detrimental effects.

The findings for denial as are follows:

         1. Reasonable mitigation measures cannot be placed on the conditional use to
            alleviate anticipated detrimental effects.



MODEL MOTIONS
Sample Motion for Approval – I move that we approve the Conditional Use Permit, as
requested by Ambyr T. Lindsay representing Ambyr T. Lindsay, Inc. Ambyr Lindsay, Terry
Young, and Laurie Young for a Home Occupation, application HOCC-6837-2023 based on
the findings listed in the Staff Report dated October 19, 2023.

Sample Motion for Modified Approval– I move that we approve the Conditional Use Permit,
as requested by Ambyr T. Lindsay representing Ambyr T. Lindsay, Inc. Ambyr Lindsay, Terry
Young, and Laurie Young for a Home Occupation, application HOCC-6837-2023 based on
the findings listed in the Staff Report dated October 19, 2023 and as modified by the
findings and conditions below:




Ambry T. Lindsay, Inc. Home Occupation                              App. # HOCC-6837-2023
Conditional Use Permit Request                 9
         1. List any additional findings and conditions…

Sample Motion for Denial – I move that we deny the Conditional Use Permit, as requested
by Ambyr T. Lindsay representing Ambyr T. Lindsay, Inc. Ambyr Lindsay, Terry Young, and
Laurie Young for a Home Occupation, application HOCC-6837-2023 based on the findings
listed in the Staff Report dated October 19, 2023.




Ambry T. Lindsay, Inc. Home Occupation                          App. # HOCC-6837-2023
Conditional Use Permit Request                 10
                                      EXHIBIT A
                                 DEPARTMENT REVIEWS

REVIEWS ARE NOT MEANT TO BE AN ALL INCLUSIVE LIST OF POSSIBLE COMMENTS OR
CONDITIONS.



Planning Division Review.

       1.     No additional Comments.

Engineering and Public Works Divisions Review.

       1.     We have reviewed the subject home occupation use permit (CUP) application
              according to the standards of the Draper City Municipal Code. It is our
              understanding that the applicant is requesting a conditional use permit to
              operate a home-based business. Accordingly, we offer the following
              comments related to the engineering findings, including the following:
              A. The present and future requirements for transportation, traffic, water,
                 sewer, and other utilities for the subject site do not appear to be
                 detrimentally impacted as described. Given the location and proposed
                 use, the use is not anticipated to generate a significant impact to water,
                 sewer, or other potential utilities.
              B. The number of trips generated by the home owner/employees will not
                 have a detrimental impact to traffic in the area due no employees and up
                 to two customers visiting the residence. The applicant has indicated all
                 services will be provided within the residence. With the applicant’s
                 anticipation that there will be no more than two customers at a time and
                 no additional employees, no significant impact to traffic is anticipated
                 with the proposed use.
              C. The applicant has indicated that she prefers customers park in the
                 driveway but that some customers park in the public right-of-way. Brook
                 Haven Cove, at the indicated address, is a cul-de-sac and is a public local
                 street where on-street parking is currently permitted. Parking on Brook
                 Haven Cv may impact traffic if it is during poor weather or if there are
                 other cars parked on the opposite side or within the cul-de-sac. However,
                 based on the information from the applicant, no significant impact to
                 parking is anticipated with the proposed use.
              D. The proposed use does not appear detrimental to the health,
                 safety, or general welfare of the persons residing or working in the
                 vicinity, or injurious to the property or improvements in the
                 vicinity.
Building Division Review.

       1.      No additional Comments



Fire Division Review.

       1.      No additional Comments.
  EXHIBIT B
VICINITY MAP
 EXHIBIT C
AERIAL MAP
  EXHIBIT D
LAND USE MAP
 EXHIBIT E
ZONING MAP
      EXHIBIT F
SITE AND FLOOR PLAN
    EXHIBIT G
APPLICANT LETTERS
From:              Tevai Haunga
To:                Todd Draper
Subject:           FW: [EXT] Proposed use
Date:              Tuesday, October 24, 2023 8:38:24 AM




-----Original Message-----
From: Ambyr Lindsay <ambyrcita@gmail.com>
Sent: Monday, August 14, 2023 12:13 PM
To: Tevai Haunga <Tevai.Haunga@draperutah.gov>
Subject: [EXT] Proposed use

[EXTERNAL SENDER! Only open attachments/links you know are safe.]

This is a cosmetology & barbering business. Clients booked at a maximum of 2 at a time. Parking on the driveway
will be requested to each client. I intend to take clients usually 3 days a week T TH & S. 9am- 6pm

Thank you Ambyr
Sent from my iPhone
From:               Tevai Haunga
To:                 Todd Draper
Subject:            FW: [EXT] Approval standards
Date:               Tuesday, October 24, 2023 8:38:35 AM




-----Original Message-----
From: Ambyr Lindsay <ambyrcita@gmail.com>
Sent: Monday, August 14, 2023 2:31 PM
To: Tevai Haunga <Tevai.Haunga@draperutah.gov>
Subject: [EXT] Approval standards

[EXTERNAL SENDER! Only open attachments/links you know are safe.]

Hello Tevai,
A. I strongly feel that my in-home salon is in compliance, and definitely in harmony with the objectives and
requirements of cities general plan in this area. It shouldn’t really even impact the neighborhood.
B. The property itself has plenty of driveway and curbside parking. There will never be more than two cars on the
street parked at any given time in front of the property. And the in-home dedicated office space transformed
perfectly into an in-home.
C. My in-home salon is not injurous to potential and existing development in the vicinity.
D. The economic impact is a positive one. My clients might be bringing their business to other local Draper
businesses there for increasing the economy here.
E. There’s virtually no aesthetic impact in the area. The property will not change, other than to be regularly
maintained and kept up to the neighborhood standards.
F. The salon will meet all of the required safety protocols for fire and Electrical & Health departments standards set
forth by the city. Walks will be maintained in all weather. Clients will be parking in the driveway most of the time
and there will never be more than two cars on the street at any given time. & Because we are in a cal-de-sac,
There’s adequate space for vehicles to turn around and exit. But there just won’t be that many people here at once.
So I don’t anticipate it really impacting the transportation and circulation of the neighborhood much at all.
G. N/A I don’t think any residence , neighbors or customers will be exposed to noise, glare, dust, or pollutants of
any kind, etc.
H. The health, safety, and welfare of the city, area, people, owning property, or leasing property in the area will not
be impacted by my little salon.

Thank you
Ambyr T Lindsay
Owner, President, Principal Stylist
Sent from my iPhone
From:               Tevai Haunga
To:                 Todd Draper
Subject:            FW: [EXT] analysis of devciation
Date:               Tuesday, October 24, 2023 8:38:30 AM




-----Original Message-----
From: Ambyr Lindsay <ambyrcita@gmail.com>
Sent: Monday, August 14, 2023 1:28 PM
To: Tevai Haunga <Tevai.Haunga@draperutah.gov>
Subject: [EXT] analysis of devciation

[EXTERNAL SENDER! Only open attachments/links you know are safe.]

Hello Tevi,

a. Because my studio cosmetology and barbering business requires no open or outward signage, or any additional
parking or any other impactful adjustments on the exterior of the building or property or driveway, I feel that my
business occupying my home is in harmony and compliance with maintaining the objectives of the cities general
plan, and intention for the neighborhood to remain just that. A beautiful neighborhood!
B. As above mentioned, because the salon functions all within the dwellings walls, and there will be no more than
two cars ever maximum out on the curb or in the driveway. I’d say the property is very suitable for a salon. Or that
the salon will impact the neighborhood and property very little.
C. In no way should the use of an in-home Salon be injurious to potential or existing development in the area.
D. I think in general most people won’t even notice my business is there. .. I imagine that the economic impact
would be beneficial in that I am now bringing my beauty supply needs to local businesses like the Salon Centric and
Draper. Perhaps if my clients are hungry for lunch, they will stop and patronize Draper businesses. On my way to
and from my in-home salon. And the neighbors in the community now have available a very local and very talented
& quiet hairstylist, conveniently located close by. And for those individuals in the community not interested in
patronizing my in-home salon; I imagine that it should economically impact them very little, if at all.
E. Because it is a business being visited by customers, there is an interest and budget in my business, dedicated to
maintaining the landscape and the aesthetic of the home. So this benefits the neighborhood by keeping my home
looking beautiful on its exterior and its gardens.
F. My in home studio business meets all safeguards proposed. We are located at the end of a cul-de-sac, which
allows plenty of room for people to turn around in their vehicles. I will be encouraging my clients to simply park in
the driveway. But there will likely never be more than two cars parked out on the curb at any given time.
G. N/A I am quite sure that none of my neighbors or people in surrounding area will see hear or smell any of the
services that I provided my clients inside my salon.
H. I don’t think my salon impacts health, safety, or welfare of the city, area, or people, owning or leasing property
nearby. All business takes place inside the dwelling.

As you walk into the foyer of my home just to your left is what was originally intended to be a home office. I have
transformed its 120 ft.² into a Salon by adding the necessary plumbing and electrical by professionals.; Royal
Plumbing , heating and air based out of Ogden, and Nester Mendoza, the electrician. The room is coming together
nicely. The use of the specific room in the building property will comply with fire code & health department
requirements & maintain all licensure necessary to operate legally a Salon, business and Draper.

Thank you

Ambyr Lindsay,
President, Principal Stylist
Salon Eleveat or Ambyr Lindsay on instagram
From:               Tevai Haunga
To:                 Todd Draper
Subject:            FW: [EXT] Developmental standards: permitted use
Date:               Tuesday, October 24, 2023 11:18:20 AM
Attachments:        Ambyr Lindsay Invoice.pdf




-----Original Message-----
From: Tevai Haunga
Sent: Friday, August 25, 2023 4:55 PM
To: 'Ambyr Lindsay' <ambyrcita@gmail.com>
Subject: RE: [EXT] Developmental standards: permitted use

Thanks for getting this to me. Please see the invoice attached for the review fee. Once this is paid I can route it for
review. You can pay online through the portal or call Finance at 801-576-6501. Please let me know if you have any
questions. Thank you!

-----Original Message-----
From: Ambyr Lindsay <ambyrcita@gmail.com>
Sent: Wednesday, August 23, 2023 7:18 AM
To: Tevai Haunga <Tevai.Haunga@draperutah.gov>
Subject: [EXT] Developmental standards: permitted use

[EXTERNAL SENDER! Only open attachments/links you know are safe.]

A. I am the only owner & employer, & employee at my business. Therefore, I will be the only one living and
operating out of my residence at 12872 S Brookhaven Cove Draper.
B. I shall maintain a Draper City Business Permit/license .
C. I presently do not employed any family or non family members or other homeowners. Should that change in the
future I will comply by this requirement and its limitations.
D. My facilities shall comply with all city county state and federal regulations & will submit to inspection.
E. I agree not to exceed the 250 ft.² allowed for inventory. My business typically does not require such space for its
inventory needs.
F. There will be no change oil the structures of the yard for business purposes. I will work within the boundaries of
these dwelling requirements.
G. As a hairstylist my business is quietly conducted indoors. I won’t be a nuisance in any way.
H. The salon is less than 200 ft.² in a 4600 ft.² home. The primary purpose for the dwelling is to live there. The
secondary purpose is to work there. The business so much disrupt the character of a home or neighborhood in
anyway.
I. No signage is needed.
J. My clients will be invited to consistently park on the driveway. In the event that they are required to park on the
street, they will park legally, and then a no non-disruptive manner.
K. I have no large equipment or vehicles in association with my business. Just normal cars & a truck park here.
L. I have no need to use the yard for anything regarding the salon. No equipment will ever be left outside in the
yard.
M. I have no idea how I will comply with a no customers allowed. ? Lol. My business has an existing clientele. But
I can tell you that I only have one salon chair. To be occupied by one salon client at a time. In the rare event that
there are two hair clients in the salon at the same time that will still never be more than two vehicles parked on the
driveway or the street at the same time. I’m also only working part time.
N. Utility demands were never a problem at my old in home Salon in Midvale. I don’t imagine they will be an issue
here.
O. The salon is located in the room that was originally dedicated to Home Office use. So it is definitely located
inside the main dwelling.
P. My parents currently live in the basement and share homeownership with me. They have already signed with a
notary present, acknowledging and allowing me to conduct business from home. If additional letters are necessary,
please let me know. But my parents support me earning an income from home to be available to my children.
Q. The cosmetology business will comply with all licensure requirements.

Thank you
Ambyr Lindsay

Sent from my iPhone
