MEMO
To: Planning Commission
From: Tevai Haunga
Date: 2023-11-16
Re: Public Hearing: Tunbridge Zoning Map Amendment (Legislative Action)


Comments:


This application is a request for approval of a Zoning Map Amendment on approximately 0.48 acres
located on the east side of 700 E., at approximately 11853 S. 700 E. The property is currently zoned
RA2 and the current land use designation is Community Commercial. The applicant is requesting
that a Zoning Map Amendment be approved to allow for future commercial development of the
property by others.


The findings for approval are as follows:

For approval:


  1. The proposed amendment is consistent with goals, objectives and policies of the city’s
       general plan.
  2.   The proposed amendment is harmonious with the overall character of existing development
       in the vicinity of the subject property
  3.   The proposed amendment is consistent with the standards of any applicable overlay zone.
  4.   The proposed amendment will not adversely affect adjacent property.
  5.   The facilities and services intended to serve the subject property are adequate including, but
       not limited to, roadways, parks and recreation facilities, police and fire protection, schools,
       storm water drainage systems, water supplies, and wastewater and refuse collection.

The findings for denial are as follows

For denial:

  1. The proposed amendment is not consistent with goals, objectives and policies of the city’s
     general plan.
  2. The proposed amendment is not harmonious with the overall character of existing
     development in the vicinity of the subject property
  3. The proposed amendment is not consistent with the standards of any applicable overlay
       zone.
  4. The proposed amendment will adversely affect adjacent property.
  5. The facilities and services intended to serve the subject property are not adequate including,
     but not limited to, roadways, parks and recreation facilities, police and fire protection,
     schools, storm water drainage systems, water supplies, and wastewater and refuse collection.



ATTACHMENTS:

Tunbridge Zoning MA SR Final.pdf
