MINUTES OF THE DRAPER CITY PLANNING COMMISSION MEETING HELD ON
THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 8, 2022 IN THE DRAPER CITY COUNCIL CHAMBERS

PARTICIPATING:       Vice Chairman Craig Hawker, Commissioners Gary Ogden, DeLaina
                     Tonks, Lisa Fowler, and Susan Nixon

ABSENT:              Chairman Andrew Adams, Commissioners Tab Bingham, Mary Squire and
                     Kendra Shirey

STAFF PRESENT:       Fred Aegerter, Mike Barker, Jennifer Jastremsky, Todd Draper, Brien
                     Maxfield, Spencer DuShane, Maryann Pickering, Connor Mangelson and
                     Amie Salazar

6:30 PM Business Meeting

Vice Chairman Craig Hawker welcomed everyone to the meeting, he began the meeting at 6:30pm

1. Action Item: Approve Planning Commission Meeting Minutes for August 25, 2022
   (Administrative Action)

   Commissioner Susan Nixon had some changes. No content was changed, just a number of
   grammatical errors.

   Motion: Commissioner DeLaina Tonks motioned to have the staff bring back the minutes
   with the suggested minutes at a later date.

   Second: Commissioner Susan Nixon

   Vote: A roll call was taken with the Commissioners voting 4-0 in favor of the motion.
   Fowler, Tonks, Nixon and Ogden voted, “Aye”.

   Vice Chairman Hawker noted that anyone present for item number four on the agenda, the
   applicant had withdrawn their application.

2. Public Hearing: Lone Peak Business Park (Administrative Action)

   On the request of David Driggs of Price Real Estate to amend various sections of the text of
   the Lone Peak Commercial Special District (CSD-LP) to update and modify the zoning. West
   of freeway detail of CSD Application: TEXTMAP-125-2021. Staff Contact is Maryann
   Pickering, 801-576-6391, maryann.pickering@draperutah.gov.

   Maryann Pickering, Planner III, reported on this request. The CSD was originally adopted in
   2012. There have been some modifications done over the years. This is a request from the
   applicant to update and modify their CSD. They are updating exhibits that were done in the
   1990s. Ms. Pickering showed a sign location map. Ms. Pickering asked the applicant to label
   the pylon monument on the plan so Draper City staff will know where the signage will be
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
February 9, 2023
Page 2

   placed. An architectural art element of a shipping container has been proposed for installation
   on the outside walls of the buildings.

   Vice Chairman Hawker asked if the materials used for this will be an actual shipping
   container or just be made to look like one.

   Ms. Pickering stated it will be part of an actual shipping container.

   Commissioner Nixon asked if there will be more than seven pylon signs.

   Ms. Pickering responded that there will be three pylon signs, but if the applicant wanted to
   add more in the future, the request was to be able to have up to seven signs.

   Applicant David Driggs indicated on a site map where the pylon signs would be.

   Commissioner Lisa Fowler asked which buildings would have the shipping containers on
   them. Mr. David Driggs indicated on the site map which buildings would have the shipping
   container art.

   Vice Chairman Hawker opened the public hearing.
   No comments were made.
   Vice Chairman Hawker closed the public hearing.

   Commissioner Nixon asked if the temporary A-frame signs were long or short term.
   Jennifer Jastremsky stated there are no restrictions against having the signs, but that the A-
   frame signage will need to be brought inside when the business is closed.

   Commissioner Tonks asked how traffic would be affected in the area.

   Brien Maxfield, Senior Engineering Manager, stated there will be no change to traffic related
   to this application. The City is aware of existing problems on Lone Peak and is working on
   them.

   Motion: Commissioner Nixon moved to send a positive recommendation to the city
   council for Price Real Estate to amend various sections of the text of the Lone Peak
   Commercial Special District. Application TEXTMAP-125-2021. Based on the findings
   and subject to the conditions listed in the staff report dated August 30, 2022.

   Second: Commissioner Gary Ogden

   Vote: A roll call was taken with the Commissioners voting 4-0 in favor of the motion.
   Fowler, Tonks, Nixon and Ogden voted, “Aye”.

3. Public Hearing: Price Real Estate Lot 10 Amendments (Legislative Action)
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
February 9, 2023
Page 3

   On the request of David Driggs of Price Real Estate to amend the land use designation from
   Community Commercial to Commercial Special District and rezone the property from CBP
   (Business / Manufacturing Park. To CSD-LP (Lone Peak Commercial Special District) for the
   property located at approximately 12251 S. Lone Peak Parkway. Applications: TEXTMAP-
   177-2022 and TEXTMAP-117-2022. Staff Contact: Maryann Pickering, 801-576-6391,
   maryann.pickering@draperutah.gov.

   Ms. Pickering reported on these requests. The property is currently a vacant lot, the current
   zoning is community commercial, and the applicant would like to change it to CSD. If the
   rezone is approved, this property has the potential to be developed into a business park.

   Applicant David Driggs had nothing additional to report.

   Chairman Hawker opened the public hearing reminding anyone who would like to speak to
   keep their comments and concerns to three minutes.

   No comments were made.

   Chairman Hawker closed the public hearing.

   Commissioner Nixon asked if there was a site plan included in the staff report.

   Ms. Pickering stated that the reference to a site plan was a mistake and that there was not a site
   plan, as a site plan is not required for these applications.

   Motion: Commissioner Ogden motioned to send a positive recommendation to the City
   Council for the land use map as requested by David Driggs of Price Real Estate.
   Application TEXTMAP-177-2022. Based on the findings and subject to the conditions
   listed in the staff report dated August 30, 2022.

   Second: Commissioner Fowler

   Vote: A roll call was taken with the Commissioners voting 4-0 in favor of the motion.
   Commissioners Ogden, Tonks, Fowler and Nixon voted, “Aye”.

   Motion: Commissioner Fowler motioned to send a positive recommendation to the City
   Council for the zoning map amendment requested by David Driggs of Price Real Estate.
   Application TEXTMAP-117-2022. Based on the findings and subject to the conditions
   listed in the staff reported dated August 30, 2022.

   Second: Commissioner Tonks

   Vote: A roll call was taken with the Commissioners voting 4-0 in favor of the motion.
   Commissioners Ogden, Tonks, Fowler and Nixon voted, “Aye”.
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
February 9, 2023
Page 4

4. Public Hearing: Academy Place Zoning Text Amendment (Legislative Action)
   Vice Chairman Hawker stated the applicant withdrew this application.

5. Public Hearing: City Initiated 2022 General Plan Amendment (Legislative Action)

   On the request of Draper City, a General Plan Amendment regarding requirements for the
   Moderate Income Housing Plan components within the plan, city wide applicability, known as
   application TEXTMAP-0174-2022. Staff contact: Todd A. Draper, (801) 576-6335,
   todd.draper@draperutah.gov.

   Todd Draper, Planner III, presented the information on this project. The State of Utah has
   preselected a list of strategies for all cities and towns. Draper City must adopt five or six of
   these strategies. Staff is requested a recommendation be made to the Draper City Council so
   that they may adopt required changes to the General Plan before October 1st to be compliant
   with the State statutes. Mr. Draper reported that the city has reached out to the public through
   the City webpage and newsletter, for feedback.

   Mr. Draper restated, for the benefit of the public in attendance that may or not be aware,
   moderate income housing is defined as a housing occupied or reserved for the occupancy by
   households with a gross income equal to or less than 80% of the gross Area Median Income
   (AMI).

   Mr. Draper presented the strategies selected and proposed implementation plans for inclusion
   in the General Plan by the Planning Commission. These were:

   (E) Create or allow for and reduce regulations related to internal or detached accessory
   dwelling units in residential zones.
   Mr. Draper stated that the implementation plan would include to possible text amendments in
   2023, and a re-evaluation again in 2027.

    (F) Zone or rezone for higher density or moderate income residential development in
   commercial or mixed-use zones near major transit investment corridors, commercial centers,
   or employment centers.
   Implementation would begin in 2024. Mr. Draper stated that a good point to start implementing
   strategy F will be to implement the Town Center Station Area Plan once it is completed, and
   continue through 2025. Implementation would include amending the zoning map if necessary.

   (G) Amend land use regulations to allow for higher density or new moderate income residential
   development in commercial or mixed-use zones near major transit investment corridors.
   Mr. Draper stated that the proposed implementation could begin in 2023 by evaluating the
   major transit corridors and evaluating the feasibility for adjustments to existing mixed-use
   zones, or the creation of a new mixed-use zone. Implementation would be proposed to continue
   into 2024 and 2025 through possible amendments to the zoning ordinance text.
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
February 9, 2023
Page 5

   (J) Implement zoning incentives for moderate income units in new developments.
   Mr. Draper stated that the city would first need to initiate a study to determine if there are
   incentives that would work for the Draper area. He indicated that this would be proposed to
   occur in 2026 with implementation of any recommendations of the study taking place in 2027.

   (O) Apply for or partner with an entity that applies for state or federal funds or tax incentives
   to promote the construction of moderate income housing, and entity that applies for programs
   offered by the Utah Housing Corporation within that agency’s funding capacity an entity that
   applies for affordable housing programs administered by the Department of Workforce
   Services, an entity that applies for affordable housing programs administered by an association
   of governments established by an Interlocal agreement under Title 11, Chapter 13, Interlocal
   Cooperation Act, an entity that applies for services provided by a public housing authority to
   preserve and create moderate income housing, or any other entity that applies for programs or
   services that promote the construction of preservation of moderate income housing. This one
   is ongoing for the city.

   Mr. Draper stated that this strategy is currently implemented by the City with the pooling
   together of CDBG funds with Salt Lake County and other cities in the county. Besides some
   of the funds being available to help construct new moderate income housing, some of the funds
   help with housing repairs for low-income households which would meet the intent of
   preserving moderate income housing. The proposed implementation plan is for the City to
   continue to participate as they have in the past.

   (V) Develop and adopt a station area plan in accordance with section 10-9-403.1. Complete
   and adopt town center station area plan.

   Mr. Draper reminded the Planning Commission that this was a required strategy for inclusion.
   He stated all Station Area Plans must be completed by the end of 2025 and that the City may
   apply for waivers from completing plans for the Kimballs Lane Station and 11400 S Station as
   both areas are mostly built out and the majority of the undeveloped area is in greenbelt and a
   plan change may have implications to the tax status of the farmland, and that a plan may not
   be warranted at this time.

   Mr. Draper indicated that alternative strategies and implementation plans were included in the
   staff report. They were included just in case the Planning Commission wished to recommend
   one of them to the City Council rather than one of the selected strategies.

   Chairman Hawker opened the public hearing and mentioned that they did receive some public
   comment by email, he reminded anyone making a public comment to keep them to three
   minutes.

Paul Glauser, citizen, stated that people don't like the sound of moderate income housing, because
of the bad reputation it has for being of poor quality construction and unmaintained. Mr. Glauser
stated possible ways for these bad reputations to be overcome would be to keep housing the
   Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
   February 9, 2023
   Page 6

   affordable by long term by contractual arrangements, protect against poor quality, assure good
   maintenance and management, and by putting some kind of enforcement mechanism into the
   ordinance to ensure maintenance happens.

   Chairman Hawker closed the public hearing.

   Chairman Hawker stated this was great and he thanked the staff for the time they put into this
   presentation, and information.

   Commissioner Fowler stated that the proposed strategies in the plan document would not cause
   the problems Mr. Glauser is concerned about. She felt that some of the alternative strategies might.

   Chairman Hawker asked about the penalties if the City does not adopt these new strategies.

   Ms. Jastremsky stated that the City would lose transportation funding if the General Plan was not
   updated to the revised strategy list.

   Mr. Draper Clarified that adoption five strategies is required to receive the transportation funding,
   but that the City would receive priority status for the transportation funding if six were adopted,
   and that is why six are included.

   Motion: Commissioner Fowler motioned to send a positive recommendation to the City
   Council for the 2022 General Plan Amendment regarding requirements for the Moderate
   Income Housing Plans Requested by Draper City. Application TEXTMAP-0174-2022. Based
   on the findings and subject to conditions listed in the staff report dated September 1, 2022.

   Second: Commissioner Tonks

   Vote: A roll call was taken with the Commissioners voting 4-0 in favor of the motion.
   Commissioners Fowler, Tonks, Nixon and Ogden voted, “Aye”.

6. Adjournment: Commissioner Ogden made a motion to adjourn. The meeting was adjourned
   at 7:31 p.m.
