Coversheet
Item Coversheet MEMO To: Planning Commission
From: Tevai Haunga
CC:  Date: June 22, 2023
Re: Public Hearing: X Development Office Building Site and Deviation (Administrative Action) Comments: This application is a request for approval of a Site Plan, including Deviations for  Landscaping and Cross Access, for approximately 0.99 acres located at 699 E. Pioneer Road. The property is currently zone CN. The applicant is requesting approval of a Site plan and Deviations to allow for new construction of an office building. The findings are as follows: Perimeter Landscaping Deviation Request:
The findings for approval are as follows:
1.   The deviation is consistent with the purpose of this chapter and any applicant master plan or ordinance;
2.   The deviation reflects a design that conforms to the requirements of this chapter to the greatest extent possible and offers alternative methods for addressing the landscape requirement for which a deviation is being requested;
3.   The deviation will not adversely affect neighboring property owners or residents;
4.   The deviation will not adversely affect sight distance or otherwise diminish public safety;
5.   The deviation is justified by site constraints; and
6.   The proposed landscaping is of high quality and integrates aesthetically with the design of the primary buildings on site and established streetscape.
The findings for denial are as follows:
1.   The deviation is not consistent with the purpose of this chapter and any applicant master plan or ordinance;
2.   The deviation does not reflect a design that conforms to the requirements of this chapter to the greatest extent possible and does not offer alternative methods for addressing the landscape requirement for which a deviation is being requested;
3.   The deviation will adversely affect neighboring property owners or residents;
4.   The deviation will adversely affect sight distance or otherwise diminish public safety;
5.   The deviation is not  justified by site constraints; and
6.   The proposed landscaping is not of high quality and does not integrate aesthetically with the design of the primary buildings on site and established streetscape.
Cross Access Deviation Request:
The findings for approval are as follows:
1.   Access from the adjoining property was not previously designed or required to provide reciprocal cross access to the subject property; and
2.   Site improvements on the adjoining property physically impede the ability to create a cross access drive between both properties.
The findings for denial are as follows:
1.   Site improvements on the adjoining property do not physically impede the ability to create a cross access drive between both properties.
Site Plan:
The findings for approval as are follows:
1.   The site plan reflects the full development of the property.
2.   The site plan conforms to applicable standards set forth in this title, including but not limited to, building heights, setbacks, access points, parking, landscaping, and building materials.
3.   The proposed development plans meet the intent, goals, and objectives of the general plan and the purpose of the zone district in which the site is located.
4.   The public facilities and services in the area are adequate to support the subject development, as required by engineering standards and specifications.
5.   The proposed development plans comply with the engineering standards found in Titles 7, 8, 11, 12, 16, and 18 of this code, including traffic, storm water drainage, and utilities concerns.
The findings for denial as are follows:
1.   The site plan does not conform to applicable standards set forth in this title, including but not limited to, building heights, setbacks, access points, parking, landscaping, and building materials.
2.   The proposed development plans do not meet the intent, goals, and objectives of the general plan and the purpose of the zone district in which the site is located.
3.   The public facilities and services in the area are not adequate to support the subject development, as required by engineering standards and specifications.
4.   The proposed development plans do not comply with engineering standards found in Titles 7, 8, 11, 12, 16, and 18 of this code, including traffic, storm water drainage, and utilities concerns.
ATTACHMENTS: Description Upload Date Type Staff Report 6/16/2023 Cover Memo