MEMO
To: Planning Commission
From: Todd A. Draper, AICP
Date: 2023-12-07
Re: Public Hearing: Radnet Corporate Office Building Site Plan Request (Administrative
Action)


Comments:


This application is a request for approval of a Site Plan and applicable deviations from building
design for approximately 2.75 acres located on the south side of 11400 S. and west of State Street,
at approximately 39 W. 11400 S. (Exhibit B & C). The property is currently zoned CI. The applicant is
requesting that a Site Plan and deviation requests be approved to allow for the development of the
currently vacant site with a 67’ 2” tall office building. The application was submitted prior to a
change in code and is allowed to apply for a height deviation.


Deviation Request from DCMC Section 9-11-070 – Increased Height

Findings for approval:



  1. The proposed height will not have a material adverse effect upon the character of the area or
     the public health, safety and general welfare.
  2. The proposed construction and arrangement of the building height is compatible with the use
     and development of neighboring properties with respect to scale and massing.
  3. The building is designed to relate to the human scale and incorporates at least one of the
     following:
  4. Architectural detailing including on the ground floor to emphasize the pedestrian level of the
     building.
  5. Architectural detailing at the cornice level or accentuated building zones.
  6. Roofline architectural features that give it a distinctive form or skyline.


Findings for denial:



  1. The proposed height will have a material adverse effect upon the character of the area or the
      public health, safety and general welfare.
  2. The proposed construction and arrangement of the building height is not compatible with the
      use and development of neighboring properties with respect to scale and massing.
  3. The building is not designed to relate to the human scale.


Deviation from DCMC Subsection 9-22-040(F)(3)(a) – Use of only 1 Primary Material

Findings for approval:


  1. The variations are consistent with the purpose of this chapter and any applicable master plan
     or ordinance.
  2. The building design is a specific architectural style, such as contemporary or modern, which
     utilizes facade materials differently then prescribed in subsection 9-22-040(F) and is designed
     by a licensed architect.
  3. The amount of primary materials used for a façade is at least ten percent (10%) greater than
      the minimum required amount.



Findings for denial:



  1. The variations are not consistent with the purpose of this chapter and any applicable master
     plan or ordinance.
  2. The building design is not a specific architectural style, such as contemporary or modern,
      which utilizes facade materials differently then prescribed in subsection 9-22-040(F) and is
      designed by a licensed architect.


Site Plan

Findings for approval:

  1. The site plan reflects the full development of the property.
  2. The site plan with approval of the deviation requests conforms to applicable standards set
      forth in ordinance, including but not limited to, building heights, setbacks, access points,
     parking, landscaping, and building materials.
  3. The proposed development plans meet the intent, goals, and objectives of the general plan
      and the purpose of the CI zoning district in which the site is located.
  4. The public facilities and services in the area are adequate to support the subject
      development, as required by engineering standards and specifications.
  5. The proposed development plans will comply with the engineering standards found in Titles
      7, 8, 11, 12, 16, and 18 of the Draper City Municipal Code, including traffic, storm water
      drainage, and utilities concerns.



Findings for denial:
  1. The one or more of the deviation requests were denied and the site plan does not conform to
     applicable standards set forth in ordinance without approval of the deviation requests.
  2. The proposed development plans do not meet the intent, goals, and objectives of the general
     plan and the purpose of the CI zoning district in which the site is located.



ATTACHMENTS:

P.C. Staff Report - Finalized.pdf
