MEMO
To: Planning Commission
From: Maryann Pickering, AICP
Date: 2023-11-09
Re: Action Item: Trailside Townhomes Site Plan Amendment Approval Extension
(Administrative Action)


Comments:


On November 17, 2022, the Planning Commission granted approval of a site plan
application for Trailside Townhomes, located at approximately 2142-2318 E. Brookings
Drive. The application number is SPR-058-2022. Draper City Municipal Code (DCMC)
Section 9-5-090(J) states the following regarding extension of the expiration period for a
site plan:



Expiration: Failure to obtain a land disturbance permit within one year of approval of any site
plan shall void the prior site plan approval. Prior to the expiration of the one-year period, an
applicant may submit a written request to the Community Development Department for a site
plan extension of up to six (6) months. Approval of this extension may only be granted by the
Zoning Administrator or Planning Commission, whichever is the approval authority outlined in
this section, provided the applicant can meet the requirements for extension under Section 9-5-
030 and demonstrate substantial action toward obtaining a land disturbance permit. If a site
plan expires, and an applicant wishes to continue with development of the site a new
application shall be required. If there have been no changes to applicable codes which would
necessitate updates to the previously approved plans, the applicant will be charged a new
application fee of fifty percent (50%) of the current fee outlined in the consolidated fee
schedule and the application shall be approved by the Zoning Administrator or Planning
Commission, whichever is the approval authority outlined in this section, in a public meeting as
an action item. If changes to the site plan are made by the applicant or are required due to
changes in applicable codes, the site plan shall be processed as a new application and is
subject to a new application fee at one hundred percent (100%) of the current fee established
in the consolidated fee schedule.



To date, the property owner has not been able to obtain a land disturbance permit as
they experienced delays getting the required approval from the Suncrest HOA. If the
extension is approved, all original conditions of approval from the November 17, 2022
approval will remain in effect. A copy of the approval letter is provided for convenience.



If approved, the site plan approval will be valid through May 17, 2024.



Sample Motion for Approval – I move that we approve the site plan extension, as requested
by David Tillotson, representing IKON Development for Trailside Townhomes, application
SPR-058-2022, based on the finding below and the request by the original applicant:


  1. That the applicant has shown good cause to obtain an extension and that
     substantial action has occurred towards obtaining a land disturbance permit.



Sample Motion for Denial – I move that we deny the site plan extension, as requested by
David Tillotson, representing IKON Development for Trailside Townhomes, application
SPR-058-2022, based on the finding below and the request by the original applicant:



  1. That the applicant has not shown good cause to obtain an extension and that
     substantial action has occurred towards obtaining a land disturbance permit.


ATTACHMENTS:

IKON Extension Request.pdf
ATTACHMENTS:

Approval Letter.pdf
ATTACHMENTS:

PC Staff Report Part 1.pdf
ATTACHMENTS:

PC Staff Report Part 2.pdf
