                                 Development Review Committee
                                      1020 East Pioneer Road
                                        Draper, UT 84020
                                         March 24, 2023

To:               Draper City Planning Commission
                  Business Date: April 13, 2023

From:             Development Review Committee

Prepared By: Todd A. Draper, AICP, Planner III
             Planning Division
             Community Development Department
             801-576-6335, todd.draper@draperutah.gov

Re:      Take 5 Car Wash – Conditional Use Permit Request
         Application No.: USE-225-2022
         Applicant:        Andre Sutiono, representing Draper Waggy, LLC
         Project Location: 12276 S. Galena Park Blvd.
         Current Zoning: CC (Community Commercial) Zone
         Acreage:          1.28 Acres (Approximately 55,757 ft2)
         Request:          Request for approval of a Conditional Use Permit in the CC zone
                           regarding construction of a new car wash.



BACKGROUND AND SUMMARY
This application is a request for approval of a Conditional Use Permit for approximately
1.28 acres located on the north side of 12300 S. Street, at approximately 12276 S. Galena
Park Blvd. (Exhibit B & C). The property is currently zoned CC. The applicant is requesting
that a Conditional Use Permit be approved to allow for the future development of the
currently vacant site as a car wash.

The property used to be farmed but has been vacant since commercial development
started happening in its vicinity in the last 1990s.



ANALYSIS
General Plan and Zoning.




Take 5 Car Wash                                                   App. # USE-225-2022
Conditional Use Permit Request                 1
 Table 1                    General Plan and Zoning Designations                      Exhibit
 Existing Land Use          Neighborhood Commercial                                   Exhibit D
 Current Zoning             CC                                                        Exhibit E
 Proposed Use               Car Wash
 Adjacent Zoning                                                                      Exhibit E
    East                    CG (General Commercial)
    West                    CC (Community Commercial)
    North                   CC (Community Commercial)
    South                   CC (Community Commercial)

The neighborhood commercial land use designation is characterized as follows:




According to Draper City Municipal Code (DCMC) Section 9-8-020 the purpose of the CC
zone is to “provide areas where commercial uses may be established which are generally
oriented toward local residents rather than out of town patrons. Uses typical of this zone include
planned retail and office development.”

Concept Site Layout. The conceptual site layout plan submitted with this conditional use
application shows the proposed layout for the site (Exhibit F). The applicant desired to
process this request for a conditional use permit separate from a site plan application for
the property. This application deals primarily with identification and mitigation of potential




Take 5 Car Wash                                                      App. # USE-225-2022
Conditional Use Permit Request                  2
negative impacts that a car wash may have at this location in general. As a conceptual site
plan has limited details and does not provide sufficient information to confirm compliance
with site requirements, planning staff suggests that if the Conditional Use Permit is
approved that the approval be conditioned upon the submittal and approval of a site plan
in compliance with all applicable ordinance requirements.

Conditional Use Permit.
The applicant has addressed the criteria for conditional use permit approval in a
memorandum attached to this report as Exhibit G.

The conditional use of a car wash is an allowed use in the CC zone. As the car wash would
be located along 12300 South Street between an auto body shop to the east and a used car
dealership to the west, there would be no reasonably anticipated detrimental effects
regarding the construction, character, location, parking, or hours of operation for the use
that are in need of mitigating conditions. The site is suitable for the proposed use, and
would complement existing development in the vicinity. The development would
economically benefit the neighboring area as well as the City in that it would provide
additional employment opportunities for nearby residents and additional tax revenue to
the City.

Landscaping and screening of specific features of the proposed site development are
required by ordinance. As this conditional use permit includes only a conceptual site plan
layout, the final design and layout of the landscape and screening elements are more
appropriately reviewed and addressed as part of a subsequent site plan application. There
are no reasonably anticipated detrimental effects from required compliance with the
zoning ordinance requirements for landscaping and screening.

The proposed use is in harmony and compliance with the objectives and requirements of
the City’s general plan. Specifically the economic vitality goals regarding fostering new and
existing economic activities and employment opportunities in the City (EV-1), and
sustaining the long-term economic wellbeing of the City and its citizens by encouraging and
supporting the renovation and reuse of vacant parcels (EV-3).

The applicant states that the site will have an underground storm water detention system
with a built-in water quality devised to mitigate drainage runoff, and with re-use
approximately seventy percent (70%) of the water used through the use of reclamation
tanks. These operational characteristics are typical for car wash operations and will serve
to mitigate potential environmental impacts to water and sewer usage that might
otherwise occur.

As with the landscaping and screening of the property, exterior lighting will also be
required to comply with zoning ordinance requirements as part of a subsequent site plan
application and is best addressed as part of that application and review process. The



Take 5 Car Wash                                                  App. # USE-225-2022
Conditional Use Permit Request                3
applicant states that illumination will be at near zero light candles at the property line to
eliminate the potential for light glare. Compliance with the zoning ordinance maximum
illumination at the property boundary of 0.2 foot candles is required. A simply condition
requiring compliance with the zoning ordinance as part of an application for site plan
approval would suffice to insure mitigation of any potential impacts with regards to site
lighting.

Vehicular access to the property will be from Galena Park Blvd. and not 12300 South Street.
The proposed plan provides adequate access to the site by vehicles and pedestrians,
including access for fire and emergency vehicles. The proposed parking area contains
seven (7) parking stalls in addition to one hybrid ADA parking stall and vacuum station
which meets and slightly exceeds the ordinance requirements by one (1) or two (2) stalls.
Staff sees no negative impacts created by the inclusion of the additional parking stall(s) in
the plans. Cross access to neighboring properties is required and has not been provided
within the conceptual site plan. A condition requiring compliance with the zoning ordinance
through the subsequent site plan review and approval process would suffice to mitigate
any concerns this omission may create.

This type of use is not known to create any noxious or offensive emissions of dust,
pollutants or odor. Potential impacts regarding noise are mitigated through the centralized
location of the vacuums on the property, and the location of washing operations on the
inside of the building. The location has adequate access to connect to utilities. There are no
other significant impacts that have been identified to the health, safety, or welfare of the
City, neighboring area, and persons owning or leasing property in the area.



Criteria for Approval.
The criteria for review and potential approval of a conditional use permit request are found
in Section 9-5-080(E) of the DCMC. This section depicts the standard of review for such
requests as:

    E. Approval Standards: The standards of this subsection shall apply to the issuance of a
       conditional use permit:
       1. A conditional use permit may be issued for a use to be located within a zone where
          the particular conditional use is allowed by the use regulations of the zone.
       2. Reasonable conditions may be imposed as necessary to substantially mitigate
          reasonably anticipated detrimental effects of the proposed use. These conditions may
          include conditions concerning use, construction, character, location, landscaping,
          screening, parking, hours of operation, and other matters relating to the purposes
          and objectives of this section. Such conditions shall be expressly set forth in the
          motion authorizing the conditional use permit.




Take 5 Car Wash                                                     App. # USE-225-2022
Conditional Use Permit Request                 4
         3. If the reasonably anticipated detrimental effects of a proposed conditional use
            cannot be substantially mitigated by the imposition of reasonable conditions to
            achieve compliance with applicable standards, the conditional use may be denied.
         4. The following factors shall be reviewed and considered in determining whether a
            conditional use permit application should be approved, approved with conditions, or
            denied because reasonable conditions cannot be imposed to achieve compliance with
            applicable standards:
            a. The harmony and compliance of the proposed use with the objectives and
                 requirements of the city's general plan and this title;
            b. The suitability of the specific property for the proposed use;
            c. Whether the proposed use or facility may be injurious to potential or existing
                 development in the vicinity;
            d. The economic impact of the proposed facility or use on the surrounding area;
            e. The aesthetic impact of the proposed facility or use on the surrounding area;
            f. The safeguards proposed or provided to ensure adequate utilities, transportation
                 access, drainage, parking, loading space, lighting, screening, landscaping, open
                 space, fire protection, and pedestrian and vehicular circulation;
            g. The safeguards provided or proposed to prevent noxious or offensive emissions
                 such as noise, glare, dust, pollutants and odor from the proposed facility or use;
                 and
            h. The impact of the proposed facility or use on the health, safety, and welfare of the
                 city, the area, and persons owning or leasing property in the area.
         5. The planning commission may request additional information as may be reasonably
            needed to determine whether the requirements of this subsection E can be met.



REVIEWS
Planning Division Review. The Draper City Planning Division has completed their review of
the Conditional Use Permit submission. Comments from this division, if any, can be found
in Exhibit A.

Engineering and Public Works Divisions Review. The Draper City Engineering and Public
Works Divisions have completed their reviews of the Conditional Use Permit submission.
Comments from these divisions, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Building Division Review. The Draper City Building Division has completed their review of the
Conditional Use Permit submission. Comments from this division, if any, can be found in
Exhibit A.

Fire Division Review. The Draper City Fire Marshal has completed his review of the
Conditional Use Permit submission. Comments from this division, if any, can be found in
Exhibit A.




Take 5 Car Wash                                                       App. # USE-225-2022
Conditional Use Permit Request                   5
Noticing. Notice has been properly issued in the manner outlined in the City and State
Codes.



STAFF RECOMMENDATION
Staff finds that the application complies with the DCMC and recommends that the Planning
Commission review the request, receive public comment, and approve the application with
the conditions listed by staff based on the findings listed below and the criteria for
approval, as listed within the staff report.

If the Planning Commission decides to approve the request, staff recommends they include
the following conditions of approval:

         1. That all requirements of the Draper City Engineering, Public Works, Building,
            Planning, and Fire Divisions are satisfied throughout the development of the site
            and the construction of all buildings on the site, including permitting.
         2. That a separate site plan application be submitted for review and approval for
            the site that is in compliance with all applicable ordinance requirements,
            including but not limited to site design, building design, landscaping, screening
            and exterior lighting.

The findings for approval as are follows:

         1. Reasonable conditions are included as part of the approval that substantially
            mitigate reasonably anticipated detrimental effects of the proposed use.
         2. There are no reasonably anticipated detrimental effects of the proposed
            conditional use that cannot be substantially mitigated by the imposition of
            reasonable conditions to achieve compliance with applicable standards.



The findings for denial as are follows:

         1. Reasonable conditions are not able to be included that will substantially mitigate
            reasonably anticipated detrimental effects of the proposed use.
         2. There are reasonably anticipated detrimental effects of the proposed conditional
            use that cannot be substantially mitigated by the imposition of reasonable
            conditions to achieve compliance with applicable standards.



MODEL MOTIONS
Sample Motion for Approval – I move that we approve the Conditional Use Permit, as
requested by Andre Sutiono, representing Draper Waggy, LLC, for a Car Wash, application




Take 5 Car Wash                                                   App. # USE-225-2022
Conditional Use Permit Request                 6
USE-225-2022, based on the findings and subject to the conditions listed in the Staff Report
dated March 24, 2023.

Sample Motion for Modified Approval– I move that we approve the Conditional Use Permit,
as requested by Andre Sutiono, representing Draper Waggy, LLC, for a Car Wash,
application USE-225-2022, based on the findings and subject to the conditions listed in the
Staff Report dated March 24, 2023 and as modified by the findings and conditions below:

         1. List any additional findings and conditions…

Sample Motion for Denial – I move that we deny the Conditional Use Permit, as requested
by Andre Sutiono, representing Draper Waggy, LLC, for a Car Wash, application USE-225-
2022, based on the findings and subject to the conditions listed in the Staff Report dated
March 24, 2023.

         1. List additional findings and detrimental effects…




Take 5 Car Wash                                                  App. # USE-225-2022
Conditional Use Permit Request                  7
                                      EXHIBIT A
                                 DEPARTMENT REVIEWS

REVIEWS ARE NOT MEANT TO BE AN ALL INCLUSIVE LIST OF POSSIBLE COMMENTS OR
CONDITIONS.



Planning Division Review.

   1. No additional comments.

Engineering and Public Works Divisions Review.

   1. We have reviewed the subject conditional use permit (CUP) application according to the
      standards of the Draper City Municipal Code. It is our understanding that the applicant is
      requesting a conditional use permit to operate a carwash within CC zone requiring a CUP.
      Accordingly, we offer the following comments related to the engineering findings,
      including the following:

       a. The present and future requirements for transportation, traffic, water, sewer, and
          other utilities for the subject site do not appear to be detrimentally impacted as
          described. Given the location and proposed use, the use is not anticipated to generate
          a significant impact to water, sewer, or other potential utilities.

       b. The number of trips generated by the automated carwash may have a detrimental
          impact to traffic in the area due to the potential of 45 vehicles per peak hour and
          average hour of 15 vehicles, per the Trip Generation Manual by ITE, the traffic
          engineering standard. Typically, the busiest time for the carwash is peak evening
          hours and all day on weekends. Employees do not represent a significant source
          of trips. With the proposed site accessing Galena Park Blvd and 12300 South, the
          impact would be limited to that intersection and potentially surrounding area with
          limited vehicle trips as most trips would be from the general area. The anticipated
          trips would typically occurring during off-peak times when convenient for ingress
          and egress. However, mitigation to traffic impacts generally are necessary once
          peak hour trips exceed 100 vehicles and this site does not approach that level of
          traffic generation. Generally, this use would be a minor impact to traffic.

       c. Parking for employees is required to be onsite and no offsite parking is expected. All
          clients will use the wash and vacuum facilities and then leave the site. No additional
          parking is expected. However, based on the information from the applicant, no
          significant impact to parking is anticipated with the proposed use.
       d. Access to the site will be evaluated as part of the site plan approval process and is not
          reviewed as part of the CUP process.

       e. The proposed use does not appear detrimental to the health, safety, or general
          welfare of the persons residing or working in the vicinity, or injurious to the property
          or improvements in the vicinity.


Building Division Review.

   1. No additional comments.

Fire Division Review.

   1. 2A-10BC Fire Extinguishers required. The extinguisher needs to be a serviceable
      type meaning metal head and metal neck. Extinguishers need to be located in a
      conspicuous location where they will be readily accessible and immediately
      available for use. Placed on every level of the home. If in cabinet or not the
      extinguisher or cabinet needs to be mounted so that the top is not more than five
      (5) feet above the floor.

   2. Visible Addressing Required. New and existing buildings shall have approved
      address numbers plainly legible and visible from the street fronting the property.
      These numbers shall contrast with their background.
  EXHIBIT B
VICINITY MAP
 EXHIBIT C
AERIAL MAP
  EXHIBIT D
LAND USE MAP
 EXHIBIT E
ZONING MAP
     EXHIBIT F
CONCEPTUAL SITE PLAN
                              CAUTION NOTICE TO CONTRACTOR                                                                                   BENCHMARKS




                                                                                                                                             FLOODNOTE

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  1101 Central Expressway South
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Suite 215
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Allen, TX 75013

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Ph. 214-491-1830

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            John Measels, PE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             CIVIL ENGINEER




                                                                                                                                                                                                                              SAN>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                SAN>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     SAN>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                LOCATION MAP




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       SAN>




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         SITE LEGEND:




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            SAN>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   EXISTING LEGEND:




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     W
                                                                                                                                                                                                              GAS
                                                                                                                                                                                        E




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              SAN>




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   SAN>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    GAS
                                                                                                                                                                                            E




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     SAN>




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             W
                                                                                                                                                                                            E




                                                                                                                                                                                                                     GAS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   TAKE FIVE EXPRESS CAR WASH
                                                                                            VAC




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          SAN>




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      SITE KEY NOTES:
                                                                                            VAC




                                                                                                                            VAC




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 W
                                                                                                                                                                                            E




                                                                                                                                                                                                                   GAS
                                                                                            VAC




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    12276 S. GALENA PARK BLVD.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     W
                                                                                                                            VAC




                                                                                                                                                                                            E
                                                                                            VAC




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     W
                                                                                                                            VAC




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    DRAPER, UTAH 84020
                                                                                                                                                                                                             GAS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     W
                                                                                            VAC




                                                                                                                            VAC




                                                                                                                                                                                        E




                                                                                                                                                                                                        GAS
                                                                                            VAC




                                                                                                                            VAC




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         W
                                                                                            VAC




                                                                                                                            VAC




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         W
                                                                                                                                                                                                       GAS
                                                                                                                                                                                    E
                                                                                            VAC




                                                                                                                        VAC




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         W
                                                                                            VAC




                                                                                                                            VAC




                                                                                                                                                                                    E




                                                                                                                                                                                                      GAS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         W


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         W




E          E          E            E          E         E                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    SAN>               SAN>        SAN>
                                                                         E         E                E        E                                                        SAN>          SAN>                            SAN>                                 SAN>
                                                                                                         SAN>        SAN>             SAN>
                                                                                                                                         E             SAN>
                                                                     SAN>        SAN>             SAN>                            E                       E             E               E
SAN>       SAN>       SAN>               SAN>         SAN>                                                                                     E
                                                                                                                                                                  E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          E                               E                      E                      E
                                                                                                                                                                                E                                                                                                                                      EE
                                                                                                                                                                                                        E                                            E                       E                              E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         W




                          W        W      W       W          W       W       W          W           W
                                                                 E




W      W          W                                                                                      W       W           W         W           W          W             W       W                        W                          W                        W               W                              W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            SITE PLAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                GAS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 03/09/23
                                                                 E




                                                                                                                                                                                                GAS
                                                                 E




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Know what's below.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Call before you dig.                  C 100
       EXHIBIT G
APPLICANT QUESTIONAIRE
                                                                                         JM Civil Engineering, LLC
                                                                           1101 Central Expressway S., Suite 215
                                                                                                Allen, TX 75013
                                                                                                 214-491-1830




                           Letter of Intent for Take 5 Car Wash

Purpose: Letter of Intent

This document shall serve as the Letter of Intent, Statement of Compliance to the City of Draper for the
Conditional Use Permit Application submitted by JM Civil Engineer acting as applicant on behalf of the
current owner Draper Waggy, LLC. The proposed Take 5 Car Wash facility will include a 3317 square
foot building.


Property Description: TAKE 5 Car Wash located on 12276 S. Galena Park Blvd. It is in the Northwest
corner of 12300 South (UDOT Hwy 71) and S 550 West, Draper, UT 84020. The existing site is vacant
with light vegetation.


Adjoining property: The adjoining property to the north and west is an Auto sale use where their
parking lot abuts the Take 5 Car Wash Property. On the east side, across 12276 S. Galena Park Blvd.
is an Auto Body shop use. On the south side across 12300 South Street is a Quick Serve Restaurant
with a drive through.


ZONING: The site is currently zoned CC. Car Wash is allowed in this zoning with Conditional Use
Approval. No variance is requested with this application.

GENERAL BUILDING AND SITE LAYOUT
  • The proposed Take 5 Car Wash will include seventeen (17) individual vacuum spaces for
     customers, seven (7) regular parking spaces as well as one (1) van accessible ADA space and
     an ADA loading area. These regular parking spaces are used for employees only. Additional
     items that will be located on-site include dumpster enclosure, vacuum enclosure and
     crosswalks.
  • ADA access will be available from the building to the public sidewalk.
  • Car Wash Building will be oriented parallel to 12276 S. Galena Park Blvd. (north and south).
     The facility will have three pay-lanes that will have stacking capacity of approximately 24 cars.
     The stacking will be contained onsite and will not affect any surrounding traffic in the public
     area.
  • After going through the pay station, Customers will enter on the north side of the building and
     exit on the south side. Customers can have the option to the free self-vacuum or leave site after
     their cars are washed.
  • Cars will enter the facility from the driveway on 12276 S. Galena Park Blvd. Vehicular circulation
     will be self-contained within the site and will not adversely impact the surrounding traffic.
  • The site will have an underground storm detention system with a built-in water quality device to
     mitigate the drainage runoff. The development will not adversely impact the drainage
     downstream.

                        Columbus             Dallas         Denver         East Bay Area          Houston
          Los Angeles              Phoenix            Portland/Vancouver               Sacramento         San Francisco
                                                                                         JM Civil Engineering, LLC
                                                                           1101 Central Expressway S., Suite 215
                                                                                                Allen, TX 75013
                                                                                                 214-491-1830




   •   The facility will re-use approximate 70% of water through an onsite 4 reclamation tanks,
       therefore the impact on water usage and sewage flow is very minimal.
   •   The building and operations will not emit any dust, odor and pollutants.
   •   Noise will be kept to the minimum. The central vacuum is place in an enclosed area to help
       minimize the noise.
   •   Lighting will be close to zero light candles at property line. This will eliminate the glaring impact.


Operations: The hours of operation is 7am-7pm on weekdays, 7am-6pm on Saturdays and 10am –
4pm on Sundays. Typically, the business will have 5-7 employees on payroll depending on shop
volume. The staff will maintain the facility clean, working and assist any customers that need
assistance.


Aesthetic Impact:
Please see enclosed letter from architect


Economic Impact:
The proposed Take 5 Car Wash will not only add jobs to the local economy, but it will be adding jobs
that provide good benefits to its employees in addition to competitive pay. These jobs will provide
opportunities for promotion of employees within the Take 5 company.

The project site is currently vacant and has not had any previous development on it. With the proposed
Take 5 Car Wash, not only will property tax revenue increase, but the development of the vacant site
will also help increase the values of adjacent properties.


CONCLUSION

Take 5 Car Wash is not your typical Express Car Wash. Take 5 Car Wash pride themselves on
partnering with local career driven staff and managers who maintain a clean site and friendly
atmosphere. Take 5 Car Wash operate during normal retail business hours and offer quick, efficient car
washes, vacuum stations, and staff attendants at each pay station and in the vacuum lanes to help the
customers. Take 5 Car Wash is not a coin operated quick car wash and have no hours of operation
without full staff on site. There are no loud equipment or site contaminants. The exclusive vac and
tunnel equipment ensures that we are able to partner with communities without disturbing the
surrounding neighborhoods.

As described above, the proposed TAKE 5 Car Wash appears to be consistent and in compliance with
the City of Draper land use plan and should not adversely affect the adjacent properties. The proposed
new building and additional landscaping will greatly improve the image of the site while continuing to
offer the residents of Draper easy access to the services provided by TAKE 5 Car Wash.



                        Columbus             Dallas         Denver         East Bay Area          Houston
          Los Angeles              Phoenix            Portland/Vancouver               Sacramento         San Francisco
                                                                                           PM DESIGN GROUP, INC.
                                                                                       38 Executive Park, Suite 310
                                                                                                  Irvine, CA 92614




March 8, 2023


Jennifer Jastremsky
Planning Mgr/ Zoning Administrator
1020 E. Pioneer Road
Draper, UT 84020

RE: TAKE 5 EXPRESS CAR WASH
566 12300 South
Draper, UT
PMDG JOB NO. TKC22022.0


Ms. Jastremsky

Take 5’s Express Car Wash will provide an added convenience to this neighborhood as the nearest car wash of a
similar type is over 5 miles away. This also adds to the variety of services already present. With this variety also
comes a mixture of building designs. The proposed Take 5 car wash’s architectural design is in keeping with the
surrounding buildings and will have a posi ve impact to the surrounding established aesthe cs.

Our site is currently place in the context of neighborhood service oriented businesses, business complexes, and a
quick service restaurants. The site is near the border between residen al and commercial business uses.
Businesses to the west of our site begin blending the residen al design mo fs with the more modern designs of
the business to east. The mul -family residen al designs are loosely based on Bungalow, Colonial , Farm House
styles . The businesses in this transi on area have incorporated gabled roof designs, earthtone colors , and CMU
block walls with other so*er materials such as siding. Whereas businesses to east of our project are rec linear and
exhibit a more industrial style on the exterior. The ﬁnishes used in on these business buildings are CMU blocks,
painted with cool light greys and white colors, and exterior plaster. Our design works to bridge the gap between
these varying designs. Our proposed Take 5 car wash will con nue the blended harmony of surrounding designs
through the use of warm browns and light greys, smooth face & split face CMU, plaster ﬁnish, storefront windows
and swooshing awnings that provide a curvilinear element to break the horizontal lines of the building.

Our proposed design meets the basic design guidelines as described in chapter 22 of zoning code, sec ons 9-22-
020 and 9-22-040. Our design addresses the categories of Context, Entrance, Façade Ar cula on, Height & Roof
lines, Massing , Materials , and Windows as it related to the buildings func on as a car wash.

Building Design

Context – The proposed project is located at an intersec on where the other 3 site are a modern/ industrial
building design style. The proposed car wash’s design con nues the rec linear mo f with straight parapets which
con nues the design unity at this intersec on.

Entrance – Our customers enter directly into car wash tunnel and remain in their vehicles throughout process. The
site layout has provided the entry to tunnel at rear of site. Understanding that the intent of this criteria is to bring
a street view presence we have posi oned / created a tower on the exit side tunnel to face street. This element
provides the focus point needed at building frontages to properly address the streetscape.




                                                                  pmdg@pmdginc.com / pmdginc.com / 877.277.9193
Façade Ar cula on – U lizing tower elements, plaster ﬁnishes, CMU blocks in two diﬀerent colors, provide the
variety needed to avoid any long and uninterrupted surface. We also have diﬀering wall planes, accents wall trims,
and swooshes.

Both ver cal and horizontal surface changes are used to meet 30’ minimum varia ons.

Heights and Roof lines – As described above, the towers used to provide the façade ar cula on also serve to break
up a straight-line parapet. Our main building height is 20’-8”. This height is comparable to the nearby building
along 12330 S. and the mul -family complexes on Galena Parkway. The building directly across street Galena is
approximately 20’-0”, as are other building along this street. The restaurant across 12300 South is approximately
17'-0" at main building height and 20 '- 0” at entry tower element.

The car wash will have limited roof mounted equipment and these will be architecturally screen by parapets.

Massing – Although our building’s main func on is designed around a long straight car wash tunnel, we have
incorporated tower features to vary the massing along the street frontages. The other buildings at this shared
intersec on u lize the same design features to break up monolithic presence.

Materials – The proposed building will u lize the appropriate types of materials to meet the building design
requirements of the zoning ordinance. All sides of building have the minimum three colors.

These are present on all sides for building at varying percentages to create a more interes ng design.



The Take 5 Express Car Wash will be a posi ve addi on to the community through it’s design and service oﬀered.
We look forward to being a part of the community.



Respectfully,

Pedro McCracken DESIGN GROUP, INC.




Roger L. Krause, AIA LEED AP
Sr. Project Manager




PM DESIGN GROUP, INC.                                                                                    Page 2 of 2
