                                   Development Review Committee
                                        1020 East Pioneer Road
                                          Draper, UT 84020
                                                 March 10, 2023


To:               Draper City Planning Commission
                  Business Date: March 23, 2023

From:             Development Review Committee

Prepared By: Tevai Haunga, Planner I
             Planning Division
             Community Development Department
             801-576-6522, tevai.haunga@draperutah.gov

Re:      Perfectografie – Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit Request
         Application No.:  USE-223-2022
         Applicant:        Marie Joy Perfecto, applicant
         Project Location: Approximately 14347 S. Irisfield Circle
         Current Zoning:   R3 (Single Family Residential 13,000 ft2 minimum area) Zone
         Acreage:          0.19 Acres (Approximately 8276.4 ft2)
         Request:          Request for approval of a Home Occupation in the R3 zone for a
                           personal care service photography home studio operating on the
                           weekends.


BACKGROUND AND SUMMARY
This application is a request for approval of a Home Occupation for approximately 0.19 acres
located on the east side of Irisfield Circle, at approximately 14347 S. Irisfield Circle. (Exhibits B
& C). The property is currently zoned R3. The applicant is requesting that a home occupation
conditional use permit be approved for her home based photography studio.

The home is part of the Fields at Draper Phase 2B subdivision and was built in 1999.


ANALYSIS

General Plan and Zoning.

 Table 1                     General Plan and Zoning Designations                        Exhibit
 Existing Land Use           Residential Medium Density                                  Exhibit E
 Current Zoning              R3                                                          Exhibit F
 Existing Use                Single Family Residential
 Adjacent Zoning



Perfectografie                                                              App. # USE-223-2022
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit Request         1
     East                    R3
     West                    R3
     North                   R3
     South                   R3


The Residential Medium Density land use designation is characterized as follows:




According to Draper City Municipal Code (DCMC) Section 9-8-020 the purpose of the R3 zone is
to “permit medium density residential development without special mitigation
requirements. This zone is intended to provide incentives to foster residential
development with little impact on its surroundings and on municipal services, and to
generally preserve the semirural character called for in the density element of the
general plan.”

Conditional Use.
The applicant only intends to use the front room of the residence occasionally as a photography
studio as most photography sessions are conducted outside of the home.

The applicant will be the only employee of the business. Business hours are limited to Saturday
10:00am- 5:00pm and Sunday 1:00pm-5:00pm. There are two parking spaces on the driveway



Perfectografie                                                         App. # USE-223-2022
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit Request   2
for customers who do come to the home. The studio is scheduled by appointment only.

Home Occupation. The DCMC Section 9-34-040 outlines development standards applicable to all
home occupations. Those criteria, along with information specific to the subject request, are as
follows:

         A. Ownership: The home occupation shall be owned and operated by a person who
              resides in the dwelling where the home occupation is located. Such person shall be
              the primary provider of the labor, work, or service provided in the home occupation.

              In adherence. The business owner, who owns and resides in the property, is the
              sole provider of photography service.


         B. Business License: A business license for the home occupation shall be obtained from
            and continually maintained with the city pursuant to title 6, chapter 11 of this code.

              In process of adhering once the business owner is granted the business license.

         C. Employees: Members of the family of the owner who reside in the dwelling may be
              employed in the home occupation. Nonfamily or nonresident employees shall be
              limited to one person.

              Not applicable. The business owner is the sole provider of photography service.

         D. Inspection: All facilities shall comply with fire, building, plumbing, electrical and all
              other city, county, state and federal codes. Inspections during reasonable hours by
              city officials may occur as necessary to assure compliance with regulations.

              In adherence. No modification or changes to the property.

         E. Inventory: No stock in trade, inventory, or other merchandise to exceed two
              hundred fifty (250) square feet shall be kept on the premises. No outside storage is
              allowed.

              In adherence. No stock in trade, inventory or other merchandise on the premises.
              There is no outside storage as well.

         F. Modification Of Structures Or Yards: There shall be no visible evidence from the
              exterior of a dwelling that it is being used for any other purpose than that of a
              dwelling. No activities shall be carried on outside the dwelling in the yard for the
              benefit of or incidental to the home occupation. No front yard area shall be altered
              to provide parking required for a home occupation.

              In adherence. Only the living area will be used for photography sessions. There are
              no modifications or changes to the property/structures or yards.




Perfectografie                                                               App. # USE-223-2022
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit Request      3
         G. Nuisance: Tools, items, equipment, or activities conducted within the dwelling which
              is offensive or noxious by reason of the emission of odor, smoke, gas, vibration,
              magnetic interference, or noise shall be prohibited.

              In adherence. No expected nuisance from the business activities.

         H. Secondary Use: The home occupation shall be clearly incidental and secondary to
              the primary use of the dwelling for residential purposes. The home occupation shall
              not disrupt the normal residential character of the neighborhood in which the
              residence is located. Not more than twenty five percent (25%) of the dwelling unit
              shall be used for the home occupation.

              In adherence. Only the front living area will be used for photography sessions, as
              such, no disruption of residential character of the neighborhood is expected. This
              front living area space is less than 25% of the dwelling unit. No other business will
              be conducted in any other part of the residence.

         I. Signs: All signage in a residential area must comply with chapter 26, "Signs", of this
            title.

              Not applicable. Future application of signage, if any, will follow section 9-26-070
              (B)(1).

         J. Traffic, Parking, And Access: No home occupation use shall generate pedestrian,
              parking, or vehicular traffic in excess of that customarily associated with the zone in
              which the use is located. All parking shall be provided and maintained on site with
              adequate provision for drop off traffic.

              In adherence. Vehicular traffic will be limited to business operating hours. There is
              adequate parking on the driveway for two customer vehicles. The studio is
              scheduled by appointment which ensures sufficient traffic flow, parking and safety
              for customers during each session.

         K. Vehicles: Other than the business owner's personal transportation, there shall be no
              vehicles or equipment on the property associated with the home occupation which
              would not normally be found at a residence. No signage for the home occupation
              shall be allowed on vehicles.

              In adherence. No vehicles other than business owner’s personal transportation will
              be utilized for the business. No signage on vehicles.

         L. Yards: Yards surrounding the dwelling and accessory buildings shall not be used for
            any activities or storage of any materials associated with the home occupation.

              In adherence. Yards will not be used for any activities or storage of any materials
              associated with photography business.




Perfectografie                                                              App. # USE-223-2022
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit Request     4
         M. Customers: No customers allowed. Children accessing a limited daycare or limited
            preschool facility shall not be considered customers.

              Hours of operations are limited to weekends: Saturday 10am-5pm and Sunday
              1:00pm-5pm. There will be adequate parking for the customers as the home studio
              is purely on appointment basis only.

         N. Utility Demand: The home occupation shall not cause a demand for public utilities in
            excess of that necessarily and customarily provided for residential uses.

              In adherence. Utility demand will be kept at a minimum.

         O. Main Structure: The home occupations shall be conducted, located, and contained
            within the primary structure on the property.

              In adherence. Only the front living room area will be used for home studio.

         P. Single-Family And Multiple-Family Dwellings: Home occupations listed as permitted
              or conditional within this title may be permitted in a single-family or a multiple-family
              dwelling, subject to the standards found within this section and section 9-34-060 of
              this chapter. Businesses within multiple-family dwellings shall provide an approval
              letter from the respective homeowners' association, or management company in the
              case of apartments, if the business proposes any employees, customers or business
              vehicles.

              In adherence. The property, which will be used as home studio, is a single-family
              dwelling.

         Q. Licensure: Any home occupation involving childcare shall comply with all applicable
              state and local laws and regulations regarding residential childcare, including, but
              not limited to, provisions of the Utah child care licensing act, as set forth in Utah
              Code Annotated section 26-39-101 et seq., as amended, and the residential
              certificate childcare standards as set forth in the Utah administrative code section
              R430-50-1 et seq., as amended. In addition, cottage food production operations are
              regulated and inspected by the Utah department of agriculture. Any food related
              home occupation under their jurisdiction must comply with these regulations.

              Not applicable.

Criteria For Approval.

The criteria for review and potential approval of a conditional use permit request is found in
Section 9-5-080(E) of the DCMC. This section depicts the standard of review for such requests
as:

         E. Approval Standards: The standards of this subsection shall apply to the issuance of a
             conditional use permit:




Perfectografie                                                               App. # USE-223-2022
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit Request      5
          1. A conditional use permit may be issued for a use to be located within a zone where
             the particular conditional use is allowed by the use regulations of the zone.
          2. Reasonable conditions may be imposed as necessary to substantially mitigate
             reasonably anticipated detrimental effects of the proposed use. These conditions
             may include conditions concerning use, construction, character, location,
             landscaping, screening, parking, hours of operation, and other matters relating to
             the purposes and objectives of this section. Such conditions shall be expressly set
             forth in the motion authorizing the conditional use permit.
          3. If the reasonably anticipated detrimental effects of a proposed conditional use
             cannot be substantially mitigated by the imposition of reasonable conditions to
             achieve compliance with applicable standards, the conditional use may be denied.
          4. The following factors shall be reviewed and considered in determining whether a
             conditional use permit application should be approved, approved with conditions, or
             denied because reasonable conditions cannot be imposed to achieve compliance
             with applicable standards:
               a. The harmony and compliance of the proposed use with the objectives and
                  requirements of the city's general plan and this title;
               b. The suitability of the specific property for the proposed use;
               c. Whether the proposed use or facility may be injurious to potential or existing
                  development in the vicinity;
               d. The economic impact of the proposed facility or use on the surrounding area;
               e. The aesthetic impact of the proposed facility or use on the surrounding area;
               f. The safeguards proposed or provided to ensure adequate utilities, transportation
                  access, drainage, parking, loading space, lighting, screening, landscaping, open
                  space, fire protection, and pedestrian and vehicular circulation;
               g. The safeguards provided or proposed to prevent noxious or offensive emissions
                  such as noise, glare, dust, pollutants and odor from the proposed facility or use;
                  and
               h. The impact of the proposed facility or use on the health, safety, and welfare of
                  the city, the area, and persons owning or leasing property in the area.
          5. The planning commission may request additional information as may be reasonably
             needed to determine whether the requirements of this subsection E can be met.


REVIEWS

Planning Division Review. The Draper City Planning Division has completed their review of the
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit submission. Comments from this division, if any, can
be found in Exhibit A.

Engineering and Public Works Divisions Review. The Draper City Engineering and Public Works
Divisions have completed their reviews of the Home Occupation Conditional Use submission.
Comments from these divisions, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Building Division Review. The Draper City Building Division has completed their review of the
Home Occupation Conditional Use submission. Comments from this division, if any, can be
found in Exhibit A.




Perfectografie                                                             App. # USE-223-2022
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit Request    6
Fire Division Review. The Draper City Fire Marshal has completed his review of the Home
Occupation Conditional Use submission. Comments from this division, if any, can be found in
Exhibit A.

Legal Division Review. The Draper City Attorney has completed his review of the Home
Occupation Conditional Use submission. Comments from this division, if any, can be found in
Exhibit A.

Noticing. Notice has been properly issued in the manner outlined in the City and State Codes.


STAFF RECOMMENDATION
Staff recommends that the Planning Commission approve the request based on the findings
listed below and the criteria for approval, as listed within the staff report. The Planning
Commission should also review the request, hear from the applicant, and receive public
comment prior to making a decision.

If the Planning Commission decides to approve the request, staff recommends they include the
following conditions of approval:

         1.       That all requirements of the Draper City Engineering, Public Works, Building,
                  Business Licensing, Planning, and Fire Divisions are satisfied throughout the
                  operation of the business.
         2.       A business license shall be maintained for the life of the business.
         3.       Customer shall park within the driveway. No on-street parking is allowed.

The findings for approval as are follows:
       1.      Reasonable mitigation measures can be placed on the conditional use to alleviate
               anticipated detrimental effects.

The findings for denial as are follows:

         1.       Reasonable mitigation measures cannot be placed on the conditional use to
                  alleviate anticipated detrimental effects.



MODEL MOTIONS
Sample Motion for Approval – I move that we approve the home occupation conditional use
permit, as requested by Marie Joy Perfecto, application USE-223-2022, based on the findings
and subject to the conditions listed in the staff report dated March 10, 2023.

Sample Motion for Modified Approval – I move that we approve the home occupation
conditional use permit, as requested by Marie Joy Perfecto, application USE-223-2023, based on
the findings and subject to the conditions listed in the staff report dated March 10, 2023, and as
modified by the findings and conditions below:

         1. List any additional findings and general conditions…




Perfectografie                                                            App. # USE-223-2022
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit Request     7
Sample Motion for Denial - I move that we deny the home occupation conditional use permit, as
requested by Marie Joy Perfecto, application USE-223-2022, based on the findings listed in the
staff report dated March 10, 2023, and as modified by the findings below.

         1. List additional findings…




Perfectografie                                                        App. # USE-223-2022
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit Request   8
                  DEVELOPMENT REVIEW COMMITTEE ACKNOWLEDGEMENT

We, the undersigned, as duly appointed members of the Draper City Development Review
Committee, do acknowledge that the application which provides the subject for this staff report
has been reviewed by the Committee and has been found to be appropriate for review by the
Draper City Planning Commission and/or City Council.


                     Digitally signed by Brien Maxfield
                     DN: C=US,
                                                                                                          Digitally signed by Jennifer Jastremsky
                     E=brien.maxfield@draperutah.gov,
  Brien Maxfield     O=Draper, OU=Public Works -
                                                                                    Jennifer Jastremsky
                                                                                                          DN: C=US, E=jennifer.jastremsky@draperutah.gov,
                                                                                                          O=Planning Division, OU=Draper City, CN=Jennifer

______________________________                                                      ______________________________
                     Engineering, CN=Brien Maxfield                                                       Jastremsky
                     Date: 2023.03.16 13:47:36-06'00'                                                     Date: 2023.03.16 12:07:34-06'00'


Draper City Public Works Department                                                 Draper City Planning Division



                                                                                       Mike Barker           Digitally signed by Mike Barker
                          Digitally signed by Don Buckley


Don Buckley               DN: C=US, E=don.buckley@draper.ut.us, O=Draper City


______________________________
                          Fire Department, OU=Fire Marshal, CN=Don Buckley
                          Date: 2023.03.16 12:04:55-06'00'
                                                                                                             Date: 2023.03.16 12:13:27 -06'00'
                                                                                    ______________________________
Draper City Fire Department                                                         Draper City Legal Counsel

                         Digitally signed by Keith Collier
                         DN: C=US,

Keith Collier            E=keith.collier@draperutah.gov, O=Draper

______________________________
                         City, OU=Building Official, CN=Keith Collier
                         Date: 2023.03.16 13:14:52-06'00'


Draper City Building Division




Perfectografie                                                                                               App. # USE-223-2022
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit Request                                  9
                                     EXHIBIT A
                                DEPARTMENT REVIEWS

REVIEWS ARE NOT MEANT TO BE AN ALL INCLUSIVE LIST OF POSSIBLE COMMENTS OR
CONDITIONS.


Planning Division Review.

   1. No additional comments provided.

Engineering and Public Works Divisions Review.

   1. We recommend that all parking associated with this home occupation be in the driveway
      and not be on the fronting street. With the potential of several vehicles for any client
      appointment, care must be used not to impede traffic by parking in the cul-de-sac.
      Minimum, short term parking within the cul-de-sacs at the proposed off-peak traffic
      times would not impact the use of the cul-de-sac. The applicant indicates the primary
      onsite parking will be in the driveway. The residence has a two-car driveway and could
      be adequate parking. However, based on the information from the applicant, no
      significant impact to parking in anticipated with the proposed use.

Building Division Review.

   1. No additional comments provided.

Fire Division Review.

   1. 2-A-10BC Fire extinguishers required. The extinguisher needs to be a serviceable type
      meaning metal head and metal neck. Extinguishers need to be located in a conspicuous
      location where they will be readily accessible and immediately available for use. Placed
      on every level of the home. If in cabinet or not the extinguisher or cabinet needs to be
      mounted so that the top is not more than five (5) feet above the floor.
   2. There shall be single station interconnected smoke detectors in good working condition
      on each level occupied by the clients. Battery operated smoke detectors shall be,
      permitted if the home demonstrates testing, maintenance, and batter replacement to
      insure continued operation of the smoke detectors.
   3. Visible addressing is required. New and existing buildings shall have approved address
      numbers plainly visible from the street fronting the property. These numbers shall
      contrast with their background.
 EXHIBIT B
AERIAL MAP
  EXHIBIT C
VICINITY MAP
 EXHIBIT D
ZONING MAP
  EXHIBIT E
LAND USE MAP
 EXHIBIT F
FLOOR PLAN
       EXHIBIT G
PHOTOGRAPHY SESSION ROOM
  EXHIBIT H
PARKING AREA
EXHIBIT I
SITE PLAN
