MEMO
To: City Council
From: Travis DeJong
Date: 2023-10-05
Re: Public Hearing: Providing Local Consent for a Full Service Restaurant License for SF
Hash Kitchen LLC


Comments:

SF Hash Kitchen LLC located at 264 E 12300 S Suite A is seeking Local Consent for a Full-
Service Restaurant license. They have provided the following:

- Liquor liability insurance.
- Bond payable to the Department of Alcoholic Beverage Services.
- Floor map showing where alcohol is to be served, stored, and consumed.
- Sales tax license.
- A background check conducted by the Bureau of Criminal Identification.

SF Hash Kitchen LLC has also applied for and is in the process of obtaining a Draper City
business license for their restaurant operations.



The findings for Local Consent approval are as follows:

DCMC 6-4-040 requires that a full-service restaurant be at least three hundred feet (300')
away from any community location (schools, churches, public libraries, public
playgrounds, and public parks) measured by the shortest pedestrian route taken from
the nearest patron entrance of the restaurant to the property boundary of the
community location.

SF Hash Kitchen LLC has met this requirement.

DCMC 6-4-040 requires that a full-service restaurant be at least two hundred feet (200')
away from any community location (schools, churches, public libraries, public
playgrounds, and public parks) measured in a straight line from the nearest patron
entrance of the restaurant to the property boundary of the community location.

SF Hash Kitchen LLC has met this requirement.

DCMC 6-4-050 places no restrictions on the number of full-service restaurant licenses
that can be granted by the City.




ATTACHMENTS:

Utah Sales Tax License
ATTACHMENTS:

SF Hash Kitchen LLC Full Service Restaurant Local Consent PP - Copy.pptx
ATTACHMENTS:

Liquor Liability Insurance
ATTACHMENTS:

Floor Plan
ATTACHMENTS:

Bond
ATTACHMENTS:

264 E 12300 S Suite A - Pedestrian Distance Map.pdf
ATTACHMENTS:

264 E 12300 S Suite A - Straight Line Distance Map
