Coversheet
Item Coversheet MEMO To: Planning Commission
From: Maryann Pickering, AICP
CC:  Date: April 27, 2023
Re: Towne Storage Draper Land Use and Zoning Map Amendments Comments: This application is a request for approval for land use and zoning map amendments for approximately 2.38 acres located on the east side of 700 East, at approximately 11761 and 11757 S. 700 East. The property is currently zoned CN. The applicant is requesting that the land use and zoning map amendments are approved to allow for a personal self-storage facility on the two properties.
The property was rezoned in 2020 with the intent of building an office building on site.  The construction of the office building has not occurred and that applicant is planning to sell the property.  The current applicant, Gary Free, needs the site rezoned and the land use changed in order to allow for a self-storage facility to be considered in the future.  Self-storage facilities are not a permitted or conditional use in the CN zone.  They are a conditional use in the CG zone.  Both zones have a maximum height of 35 feet.  Exhibit H shows all permitted, conditional and not permitted uses for the current CN zone and the proposed CG zone. The findings are as follows: For approval:
1.  The proposed amendment is consistent with the goals, objectives and policies of the city's general plan;
2.  The proposed amendment is harmonious with the overall character of existing development in the vicinity of the subject property;
3.  The proposed amendment is consistent with the standards of any applicable overlay zone;
4.  The proposed amendment should not adversely affect adjacent property;
5.  The facilities and services intended to serve the subject property, including, but not limited to, roadways, parks and recreation facilities, police and fire protection, schools, stormwater drainage systems, water supplies, and wastewater and refuse collection, are adequate; and
6.  The proposed land use map amendment complies with DCMC Sections 9-2-020(F) and 9-5-060(D).
For denial:
1.  The proposed amendment is not consistent with the goals, objectives and policies of the city's general plan;
2.  The proposed amendment is not harmonious with the overall character of existing development in the vicinity of the subject property;
3.  The proposed amendment is not consistent with the standards of any applicable overlay zone;
4.  The proposed amendment is likely to adversely affect adjacent property;
5.  The facilities and services intended to serve the subject property, including, but not limited to, roadways, parks and recreation facilities, police and fire protection, schools, stormwater drainage systems, water supplies, and wastewater and refuse collection, are inadequate; and
6.  The proposed land use map amendment does not comply with DCMC Sections 9-2-020(F) and 9-5-060(D). ATTACHMENTS: Description Upload Date Type PC Staff Report 4/19/2023 Backup Material