MEMO
To: Planning Commission
From: Tevai Haunga
Date: 2023-09-28
Re: Public Hearing: Specialized Manufacturing Land Use and Zoning Map Amendment
(Legislative Action)


Comments:

This application is a request for approval of Land Use and Zoning Map Amendments for
approximately 3.89 acres, on the south side of 12300 at approximately 687 W 12300 S.
The property is currently zoned CC. The applicant is requesting that the Land Use and
Zoning Map Amendments be approved to allow for the development of a light industrial
building on the property.

The findings for are as follows:

For approval:

  1. The proposed amendment is consistent with goals, objectives and policies of the
     city’s general plan.
  2. The proposed amendment is harmonious with the overall character of existing
     development in the vicinity of the subject property
  3. The proposed amendment is consistent with the standards of any applicable
     overlay zone.
  4. The proposed amendment will not adversely affect adjacent property.
  5. The facilities and services intended to serve the subject property are adequate
     including, but not limited to, roadways, parks and recreation facilities, police and fire
     protection, schools, storm water drainage systems, water supplies, and wastewater
     and refuse collection.
  6. The land map amendment complies with standards found in DCMC Section 9-2-
     020(F), DCMC Section 9-5-060(D), and Utah Code Annotated 10-9a-404.

For denial:

 1. The proposed amendment is not consistent with goals, objectives and policies of
    the city's general plan.
 2. The proposed amendment is not harmonious with the overall character of existing
    development in the vicinity of the subject property.
 3. The proposed amendment is not consistent with the standards of any applicable
     overlay zone.
  4. The proposed amendment is likely to adversely affect adjacent property.
  5. The facilities and services intended to serve the subject property, including, but not
     limited to, roadways, parks and recreation facilities, police and fire protection,
     schools, stormwater drainage systems, water supplies, and wastewater and refuse
     collection, are inadequate.
  6. The proposed land use map amendment does not comply with DCMC Sections 9-2-
     020(F) and 9-5-060(D).




ATTACHMENTS:

Specialized Manufacturing Staff Report Final.pdf
