                                 Development Review Committee
                                      1020 East Pioneer Road
                                        Draper, UT 84020
                                        October 16, 2023

To:               Draper City Planning Commission
                  Business Date: October 26, 2023

From:             Development Review Committee

Prepared By: Todd A. Draper, AICP, Planning Manager
             Planning Division
             Community Development Department
             801-576-6335, todd.draper@draperutah.gov

Re:      Ringdahl Fence – Conditional Use Permit Request
         Application No.: 23-4562-USE
         Applicant:        Mindi Rindahl & Thomas Gamache
         Project Location: 297 E Summer Leaf Dr.
         Current Zoning: R3 (Residential Single-Family, 13,000 ft² min. lot size) Zone
         Acreage:          0.15 Acres (Approximately 6,534 ft2)
         Request:          Request for approval of a Conditional Use Permit in the R3 zone
                           regarding construction of a fence over six feet (6’) in height in rear
                           and front yards.



BACKGROUND AND SUMMARY
This application is a request for approval of a Conditional Use Permit for approximately
0.15 acres located north of Summer Leaf Dr. and east of Red Leaf Dr., at approximately 297
E Summer Leaf Dr. (Exhibit B & C). The property is currently zoned R3. The applicant is
requesting that a Conditional Use permit be approved to allow for the installation of a nine
foot (9’) tall screen fence near the northern property line.

The property is a single-family residential property also known as Lot 90 of the Highlands at
South Pointe Subdivision. The property is a corner lot. The home was built in 2004. There is
an existing six foot (6’) tall fence surrounding the rear yard and extending into the
secondary front yard space along Red Leaf Drive.




Ringdahl Fence                                                     App. # 23-4562-USE
Conditional Use Permit Request                  1
ANALYSIS
General Plan and Zoning.

 Table 1                    General Plan and Zoning Designations                        Exhibit
 Existing Land Use          Residential Medium Density                                  Exhibit D
 Current Zoning             R3                                                          Exhibit E
 Current Use                Single Family Dwelling
 Adjacent Zoning
    East                    OS (Open Space)
    West                    R3
    North                   R3
    South                   R3

The Residential Medium Density land use designation is characterized as follows:




According to Draper City Municipal Code (DCMC) Section 9-8-020 the purpose of the R3
zone is to “permit medium density residential development without special mitigation
requirements. This zone is intended to provide incentives to foster residential development with



Ringdahl Fence                                                     App. # 23-4562-USE
Conditional Use Permit Request                  2
little impact on its surroundings and on municipal services, and to generally preserve the
semirural character called for in the density element of the general plan.”

Fencing. There is an existing six foot (6’) tall tan vinyl fence along the rear property lines
and across a portion of the secondary front yard on the east. The applicant would like to
install a taller screen fence up to nine feet (9’) in height adjacent to a portion of the existing
fence along the northern property line (Exhibits F and G). This additional fencing would be
partially in the rear yard and partially in the secondary front yard. The applicant has
indicated that this taller fence will be constructed of cedar (Exhibit H).

DCMC requires a Conditional Use Permit to install any fencing that is greater than 6-feet in
height.

         DCMC Subsection 9-27-080(A)
         1. When located within the required front yard a fence, wall, or other visual obstruction,
            not including trees shall not exceed four feet (4') in height unless a greater height is
            allowed by a conditional use permit or as otherwise permitted in this title.
         2. When located behind the front wall plane a fence, wall, or other visual obstruction,
            not including trees, shall not exceed six feet (6') in height unless a greater height is
            allowed by a conditional use permit or as otherwise permitted in this title.”

         DCMC Subsection 9-27-080(C)
         Corner Lots: In all zones which require a front yard, no obstruction to view in excess of
         three feet (3') in height shall be placed on any corner lot within a triangular area formed
         by the right of way boundary and the line connecting them at points thirty feet (30') from
         the intersection of the right of way boundary line, except for:
                 1. A reasonable number of trees pruned high enough to permit unobstructed
                 vision to an automobile driver; or
                 2. Monument identification signs when permitted by this title.
                 3. For purposes of locating fences, walls, landscaping and other similar visual
                 obstructions, a corner lot shall have one "front", which is defined as parallel with
                 the side of the residential structure which contains the primary entrance.

         DCMC Subsection 9-27-080(E)
         Other Visual Obstructions: Fences, walls, and other visual obstructions, not including
         trees, between six feet (6') and ten feet (10') in height shall be allowed only behind the
         front wall plane, and shall require a conditional use permit. Any such visual obstruction
         over six feet (6') in height must meet the setback requirements for accessory buildings
         unless otherwise permitted by a conditional use permit, except that no wall shall be
         constructed within a utility easement without the prior written permission of all affected
         utility companies. No fences, walls, or other visual obstructions over ten feet (10') in
         height are allowed, excluding trees.




Ringdahl Fence                                                        App. # 23-4562-USE
Conditional Use Permit Request                     3
Criteria For Approval. The criteria for review and potential approval of a conditional use
permit request is found in Section 9-5-080(E) of the DCMC. This section depicts the
standard of review for such requests as:

E. Approval Standards: The standards of this subsection shall apply to the issuance of a
conditional use permit:
    1. A conditional use permit may be issued for a use to be located within a zone where
       the particular conditional use is allowed by the use regulations of the zone.
    2. Reasonable conditions may be imposed as necessary to substantially mitigate
       reasonably anticipated detrimental effects of the proposed use. These conditions
       may include conditions concerning use, construction, character, location,
       landscaping, screening, parking, hours of operation, and other matters relating to
       the purposes and objectives of this section. Such conditions shall be expressly set
       forth in the motion authorizing the conditional use permit.
    3. If the reasonably anticipated detrimental effects of a proposed conditional use
       cannot be substantially mitigated by the imposition of reasonable conditions to
       achieve compliance with applicable standards, the conditional use may be denied.
    4. The following factors shall be reviewed and considered in determining whether a
       conditional use permit application should be approved, approved with conditions,
       or denied because reasonable conditions cannot be imposed to achieve compliance
       with applicable standards:
       a. The harmony and compliance of the proposed use with the objectives and
            requirements of the city's general plan and this title;
       b. The suitability of the specific property for the proposed use;
       c. Whether the proposed use or facility may be injurious to potential or existing
            development in the vicinity;
       d. The economic impact of the proposed facility or use on the surrounding area;
       e. The aesthetic impact of the proposed facility or use on the surrounding area;
       f. The safeguards proposed or provided to ensure adequate utilities,
            transportation access, drainage, parking, loading space, lighting, screening,
            landscaping, open space, fire protection, and pedestrian and vehicular
            circulation;
       g. The safeguards provided or proposed to prevent noxious or offensive emissions
            such as noise, glare, dust, pollutants and odor from the proposed facility or use;
            and
       h. The impact of the proposed facility or use on the health, safety, and welfare of
            the city, the area, and persons owning or leasing property in the area.
    5. The planning commission may request additional information as may be reasonably
       needed to determine whether the requirements of this subsection E can be met.




Ringdahl Fence                                                   App. # 23-4562-USE
Conditional Use Permit Request                4
REVIEWS
Planning Division Review. The Draper City Planning Division has completed their review of
the Conditional Use Permit submission. Comments from this division, if any, can be found
in Exhibit A.

Engineering and Public Works Divisions Review. The Draper City Engineering and Public
Works Divisions have completed their reviews of the Conditional Use Permit submission.
Comments from these divisions, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Building Division Review. The Draper City Building Division has completed their review of the
Conditional Use Permit submission. Comments from this division, if any, can be found in
Exhibit A.

Fire Division Review. The Draper City Fire Marshal has completed his review of the
Conditional Use Permit submission. Comments from this division, if any, can be found in
Exhibit A.

Noticing. Notice has been properly issued in the manner outlined in the City and State
Codes.



STAFF RECOMMENDATION
Staff recommends that the Planning Commission review the request, receive public
comment, and make a decision based on the findings listed below and the criteria for
approval, or denial, as listed within the staff report.

If the Planning Commission decides to approve the request, staff recommends they include
the following conditions of approval:

    1. That all requirements of the Draper City Engineering, Public Works, Building,
       Planning, and Fire Divisions are satisfied throughout the development of the site
       and the construction of all structures on the site, including permitting.
    2. That the applicant obtain an encroachment permit (PUDEEA) from Draper City
       Engineering.
    3. That the applicant obtain the required building permit for the construction of the
       fence.

The findings for approval as are follows:

    1. Reasonable mitigation measures can be placed on the conditional use to alleviate
       anticipated detrimental effects.

The findings for denial as are follows:



Ringdahl Fence                                                  App. # 23-4562-USE
Conditional Use Permit Request                5
    1. Reasonable mitigation measures cannot be placed on the conditional use to
       alleviate anticipated detrimental effects.



MODEL MOTIONS
Sample Motion for Approval – I move that we approve the Conditional Use Permit, as
requested by Mindi Ringdahl and Thomas Gamache for the Ringdahl Fence, application 23-
4562-USE, based on the findings and subject to the conditions listed in the Staff Report
dated October 16, 2023.

Sample Motion for Modified Approval– I move that we approve the Conditional Use Permit,
as requested by Mindi Ringdahl and Thomas Gamache for the Ringdahl Fence, application
23-4562-USE, based on the findings and subject to the conditions listed in the Staff Report
dated October 16, 2023, and as modified by the findings and conditions below:

         1. List any additional findings and conditions…

Sample Motion for Denial – I move that we deny the Conditional Use Permit, as requested
by Mindi Ringdahl and Thomas Gamache for the Ringdahl Fence, application 23-4562-USE,
based on the findings and subject to the conditions listed in the Staff Report dated October
16, 2023.




Ringdahl Fence                                                 App. # 23-4562-USE
Conditional Use Permit Request                 6
                                       EXHIBIT A
                                  DEPARTMENT REVIEWS

REVIEWS ARE NOT MEANT TO BE AN ALL INCLUSIVE LIST OF POSSIBLE COMMENTS OR
CONDITIONS.



Planning Division Review.

       1.      No additional comments.

Engineering and Public Works Divisions Review.

       1.      Proposed fence (cedar privacy wall) requires a building permit based on
               height. Placing fence (cedar privacy wall) within Public Utility & Drainage
               Easement requires an encroachment agreement (PUDEEA), as shown in the
               submitted application documents. Replacing existing fence with taller fence
               (privacy wall) would not require agreement. PUDEEA will be requirement of
               building permit.

Building Division Review.

       1.      A building permit is needed for fences over 7’ in height.



Fire Division Review.

       1.      No additional comments.
  EXHIBIT B
VICINITY MAP
 EXHIBIT C
AERIAL MAP
  EXHIBIT D
LAND USE MAP
 EXHIBIT E
ZONING MAP
EXHIBIT F
SITE PLAN
       EXHIBIT G
FENCING ELEVATION PLANS
Max height: 9’
Min height: 7’
Width: 24’
Material: cedar
Post type: 6”x6” cedar
Hole depth: 3’ set with concrete
    EXHIBIT H
APPLICANT LETTERS
Conditional Use Permit – Description

Mindi and Thomas Gamache
297 Summer Leaf
Draper, UT 84020


We the owners of 297 Summer Leaf Drive, Draper UT are requesting a Conditional Use Permit for a 9’
Privacy Wall in our backyard. This wall, like others along Carlquist Dr in Draper, will be made of Cedar
wood. The main purpose of this small addition is to allow much needed privacy for ourselves and back
neighbors, providing more solitude while gathering in our backyards. The 9’ H x 24’ W fence will be built
in front of our current 6’ fence, the additional height is needed to accomplish the privacy goal since the
elevation of our home is much higher than the neighbors behind us.
                           Statement of Compliance and Variance Applicability

Conditional Use Permit

Project 23-4562-USE



Statement of Compliance



This statement is being submitted to demonstrate how the conditional use permit request meets the
approval standards of DCMC Subsection 9-5-080(E). The proposed 9ft backyard privacy fence is being
built in a residential zone, in the backyard of 297 Summer Leaf Drive, Draper UT. The building of this
privacy wall will have no detrimental effects with such conditions as construction character, location,
parking or other matters. The privacy screen, as seen in many other backyards along Carlquist Drive in
Draper, is suitable for creating privacy in the backyard of the home without obstruction of views. The
proposed use is not injurious to potential or existing development in the vicinity. The economic impact
will be positive to the value of the home, providing privacy while maintaining city and mountain views.
The fence will be made of cedar wood and stained in the color Coffee Bean, which will be aesthetically
pleasing and coordinate with the colors of the existing homes in the area. The sound construction using
6” posts will provide safeguard against wind. There is no impact on the health, safety, and welfare of the
city.




Statement of Variance Applicability

As the owners of 297 E Summer Leaf Dr, we are asking for a variance in connection with the proposed
conditional use permit. The current zoning limitations for a fence in draper is 7ft. We are requesting a
variance to this zoning law to build a small privacy fence in our backyard, as seen in many homes in
draper. This will allow more privacy in our backyard as well as our neighbors’ backyard. Our backyard
elevation is higher than the home directly behind us, thus causing direct line views into their back patio,
and allowing them direct line views of our back deck. This 9ft privacy fence will allow both the
homeowners and neighbors to have more privacy and enjoy their family time in their backyards.
