Coversheet
Item Coversheet MEMO To: City Council Meeting
From: Jennifer Jastremsky, AICP
CC:  Date: June 6, 2023
Re: Living Planet Aquarium Property Surplus Request Comments: The purpose of the request is to surplus 2.72 acres of land located under and around the Loveland Living Planet Aquarium building so the property can be conveyed to the aquarium.
The Loveland Living Planet Aquarium was originally approved in 2012 with the creation of the CSD-LPA zone and approval of a site plan. The Aquarium expanded in 2019 with an outdoor plaza and stage referred to as the Claw. On November 10, 2022 the Planning Commission approved an Amended Site Plan to allow for a new Science Learning Center expansion. This expansion will feature event space, classrooms, exhibit areas, and administrative offices.
Shortly after review of the building permit for the Science Learning Center, the Building Division determined that the proposed Science Learning Center did not meet building code standards as the new indoor breezeway and entrance that will connect the Science Learning Center and the existing Aquarium crosses property lines. The International Building Code (IBC) does not allow buildings to cross property lines without strict fire separations. In addition, the properties are owned by different entities, Draper City and The Living Planet, Inc. The City owns the land and parking lot that the current Aquarium building is on and has a ground lease with the Aquarium.
In order to comply with the IBC, the property lines will need to be adjusted so that the buildings are all on one property, with a property line set 10-feet away from the existing building footprint. The proposed surplus will allow for that property line adjustment. In addition, the Draper City Council will need to amend the ground lease with the Aquarium. That amendment is on the agenda as a separate item.
The Planning Commission approved the plat amendment modifying property lines at their May 11, 2023 meeting, subject to the following conditions:
1.   The Draper City Council will need to vote to approve a surplus of the City owned property prior to the recordation of the Plat Amendment. If the City does not approve a surplus of the City owned property, then the plat cannot be recorded.
2.   Draper City will need to amend the Ground Lease Agreement prior to the recordation of the Plat Amendment. If the City does not approve an amendment to the Ground Lease Agreement, then the plat cannot be recorded. The findings are as follows: The proposed surplus complies with the standards of DCMC Section 3-3-160. ATTACHMENTS: Description Upload Date Type Res 23-25 5/31/2023 Cover Memo Exhibit: Site Layout 5/31/2023 Cover Memo