Coversheet
Item Coversheet MEMO To: City Council Meeting
From: Todd A. Draper
CC:  Date: February 21, 2023
Re: Lyle McAllister Zoning Map Amendment Request Comments: This application is a request for approval of a Zoning Map Amendment for approximately 0.92 acres located on the north side of 13275 S. Street, at approximately 275 E. 13275 S. The property is currently zoned RA1. The applicant is requesting that a Zoning Map Amendment be approved to change the zoning designation from RA1 to RA2 to allow for a future lot line adjustment between neighboring properties.
At the February 9, 2023 meeting the Draper City Planning Commission made a positive recommendation regarding the application to the Draper City Council on a 5-0 vote. The findings are as follows: For approval:
1. The proposed amendment is consistent with goals, objectives and policies of the city's general plan;
2. The proposed amendment is harmonious with the overall character of existing development in the vicinity of the subject property;
3. The proposed amendment is consistent with the standards of any applicable overlay zone;
4. The proposed amendment does not adversely affect adjacent property; and
5. Adequate facilities and services exist to serve the subject property, including, but not limited to, roadways, parks and recreation facilities, police and fire protection, schools, stormwater drainage systems, water supplies, and wastewater and refuse collection.
For denial:
1. The proposed amendment is not consistent with goals, objectives and policies of the city's general plan;
2. The proposed amendment is not harmonious with the overall character of existing development in the vicinity of the subject property;
3. The proposed amendment is not consistent with the standards of any applicable overlay zone;
4. The proposed amendment adversely affects adjacent property; and
5. Adequate facilities and services do not exist to serve the subject property, including, but not limited to, roadways, parks and recreation facilities, police and fire protection, schools, stormwater drainage systems, water supplies, and wastewater and refuse collection. ATTACHMENTS: Description Upload Date Type Ordinance #1576 2/14/2023 Cover Memo P.C. Staff Report 2/14/2023 Cover Memo