                          RESOLUTION NO. 23-15

      A RESOLUTION OF THE DRAPER CITY COUNCIL AMENDING
      SECTION 1020, 3020 AND 8080 OF THE PERSONNEL
      POLICIES AND PROCEDURES MANUAL REGARDING
      EMPLOYEE DEFINITIONS, PROBATIONARY PERIOD, AND
      SICK LEAVE.

     WHEREAS, The City Council reviews and adopts policies and
procedures to assist in the efficient utilization of City resources and the fair
and uniform application of requirements and benefits to City employees; and

      WHEREAS, The City Council has reviewed Policy 1020, 3020 and 8080
of the Personnel Policies and Procedures Manual and has determined a need
to amend the Definitions, Probationary Employment Period and Sick Leave
Policy; and

      WHEREAS, The City Council believes this amendment is in the best
interest of the employees of Draper City.


    NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF
DRAPER CITY, STATE OF UTAH, AS FOLLOWS:

     Section 1. Amendment. The Draper City Council does hereby adopt
the amendments to Policy 1020, 3020, and 8080 of the Personnel Policies
and Procedures Manual as attached hereto as Exhibit “A.”

      Section 2. Severability. If any section, part or provision of this
Resolution is held invalid or unenforceable, such invalidity or unenforceability
shall not affect any other portion of this Resolution, and all sections, parts
and provisions of this Resolution shall be severable.

    Section 3. Effective Date. This Resolution shall become effective
immediately upon its passage.

    PASSED AND ADOPTED BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF DRAPER CITY,
STATE OF UTAH, THIS THE 16th DAY OF MAY, 2023.



                                     DRAPER CITY
ATTEST:


___________________________________     By:
___________________________
Laura Oscarson, CMC, City Recorder    Troy K. Walker, Mayor



VOTE TAKEN:                       YES               NO

Councilmember Green

Councilmember T. Lowery

Councilmember F. Lowry

Councilmember Roberts

Councilmember Vawdrey

Mayor Walker
                               EXHIBIT “A”

                       Section 1020 – Definitions
                         (Amended 05/16/2023)

General Policy Statement:

   For the purpose of the Policies and Procedures contained in this manual,
certain words and phrases used herein shall be defined as follows:

Anniversary Date: The date on which an employee begins employment in
their current position.

City: Draper City, Utah.

Date of Hire: The date on which an employee begins employment with the
city.

Elected Officials: The city’s elected officials are designated as part-time
employees of Draper City. Elected officials serve at the discretion of the
citizens of Draper. They receive compensation and benefits based upon laws
of the State of Utah and ordinances and policies adopted by Draper City.

Employee, Appointed: Any employee appointed by the mayor, city
manager, or other person or body with the power to appoint employees.
These employees serve in full-time, at-will positions that are exempt from
the Fair Labor Standards Act (FLSA) overtime requirements. These
employees may receive all standard city benefits, effective on the date of
program eligibility.

Employee, At-Will: Any person that does not have the protections under
Utah Code §10-3-1105(1)(a).

Employee, Part-time: Any employee working for the city on a continuous
basis who is regularly assigned to work <30 hours per workweek. Part-time
employees shall not work more than 1,500 hours during a calendar year. In
accordance with the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (PPACA),
part-time employees are not eligible to receive benefits unless otherwise
required by law. Part-time employees are at-will employees.

Employee, Probationary: Any employee working for the city either full-time
or part-time but not yet having successfully completed a Probationary
Employment Period. Probationary employees are at-will employees.
Employee, Full-time: Any employee working for the city on a continuous
basis who is regularly assigned to work at least 40 hours per workweek.

Employee, Seasonal: Any employee hired for seasonal work of less than six
continuous months. Seasonal employees are not eligible to receive benefits
unless otherwise required by law. They are at-will employees.

Employee, Temporary: Any employee hired for a defined project or a
limited timeframe not to exceed 12 months. Temporary employees are not
eligible to receive benefits unless otherwise required by law. They are at-
will employees.

Employee, Exempt: Employees primarily performing work that is exempt
from or not subject to the overtime provisions of the Fair Labor Standards
Act (FLSA). Exempt employees are generally paid a salary.

Employee, Nonexempt: Employees primarily performing work that is
subject to the overtime provisions of the Fair Labor Standards Act (FLSA).
Nonexempt employees are paid on an hourly basis.

Level or Band: A group of positions sufficiently alike in duties, authority
and responsibility to justify the same position title, qualifications, and the
schedule of pay to all positions in the group.

Personnel Administrator: The City Manager or as delegated to the Human
Resources Director or other designee.

Patient Protection and Affordability Care Act (PPACA) Initial Measurement
Period: The initial measurement period for seasonal, temporary and part-
time employees begins on their date of hire and ends after they have
completed 12 months of employment. The administrative period will be one
month. If the employee qualifies for medical insurance coverage, the
coverage will begin on the new benefit year, i.e. July 1, following the
administrative period.

Separation: When an employee leaves service of the city for any reason,
whether voluntary or involuntary.

Service Date: The original date of hire as a full-time employee for purposes
of accruing benefits and determining years of service. This date is reflective
when a part-time, seasonal or temporary employee becomes a permanent
full-time employee. This service date is the first day worked as a full-time
employee.
Volunteers: Any person who donates service without pay or any other
compensation, except community service workers. Volunteers are not
considered employees.
             Section 3020 – Probationary Employment Period
                          (Amended 05/16/2023)

General Policy Statement:

   All newly hired, transferred, or promoted full time employees are
required to successfully complete a probationary employment period. The
probationary employment period provides an opportunity for the supervisor
and employee to assess the employment relationship, and allows the
supervisor to oversee the employee’s work and offer guidance to increase
effectiveness. During the probationary employment period, employees are
considered at-will and may be terminated at any time with or without
cause.

Policy:

1.0 Probationary Employment. All full-time employees shall be required to
   successfully complete a probationary employment period in accordance
   with this section.

   1.1 All full-time employees, except for sworn police officers and sworn
       fire personnel, immediately upon hire shall complete a six-month
       probationary employment period.

   1.2     All full-time sworn police officers and sworn fire personnel
          immediately upon hire shall complete a 12-month probationary
          employment period.

2. Promotions – New Position. Employees who promote or assume a new
   position requiring new job qualifications or job skills shall complete a six-
   month probationary employment period. The probationary employment
   period does not apply to promotion or new position change due to a
   career ladder (career path advancement) e.g., move from Building
   Inspector I to Building Inspector II, involuntary job restructurings, or job
   reclassification within the same department with similar job duties e.g.,
   change in job title from Passport Agent to Passport Coordinator.

3.0 Expectations for Competency. By the end of the probationary
   employment period, the employee is expected to be performing at an
   acceptable level of performance in their position.

   3.1 Supervisor’s Guidance. During the probationary employment period,
       the employee’s supervisor should provide close supervision,
       necessary training and guidance, and should keep the employee
       informed of progress made and opportunities for success.

   3.2 Formal Performance Review. At the end of the initial 90 days, a
       formal documented check-in should be completed by the supervisor,
       and at the end of the successful completion of the probationary
       employment period, a formal, written performance review shall be
       completed and discussed with the employee. The review should
       include:


       3.2.1 Assessment of job knowledge, skills and abilities, and
       3.2.2 Determination of the employee’s continued employment and
             goals set, or termination of employment.

4. Completion. Upon successful completion of the probationary employment
   period, the supervisor requests approval from the Department Director
   to retain the full-time employee in the position for which they are
   serving. Upon Department Director approval, the completed probationary
   employment review shall be forwarded to human resources for retention
   in the personnel file.

5. Written Notice of Extension. Probationary employment period may be
   extended for up to 30 days. Upon recommendation of the supervisor, the
   Department Director shall discuss the reason for extension with the
   Human Resources Director and City Manager prior to approving. In such
   event, the employee will receive written notification of the reason for and
   length of the extension from the supervisor and approval from the
   Department Director. Exceptions beyond 30 days require City Manager
   approval.

6. Job Transfers. Application for a job transfer to another position within the
   city is generally not permitted until after successful completion of the
   probationary employment period. Exceptions require City Manager or
   designee approval.

7. Termination of Probationary Employees. All terminations of probationary
   employees shall be reviewed by the Human Resources Director and must
   have prior approval of the City Manager.
                    Section 8080 – Sick Leave Policy
                          (Amended 05/16/2023)

General Policy Statement:
   Draper City recognizes that employees will occasionally need time off for
their own illness or injury, the illness or injury of a family member, or to
take care of their own medical needs or those of a family member. Eligible
employees accrue sick time as detailed in this policy.

Policy:
   1. Sick Leave Accrual.

      1.1 Sick leave accrues at a rate of 3.69 hours per pay period for
         full-time employees working 40 hours per workweek. Sworn fire
         personnel assigned to a 2912 schedule per year, accrue sick leave
         at a rate of 5.54 hours per pay period. Sick leave accrual is
         unlimited and may be carried over from calendar year to calendar
         year indefinitely. Upon hire, all new full-time employees who work
         40 hours per workweek will be frontloaded 24 hours of sick leave.
         Newly hired sworn fire personnel assigned to a 2912 schedule will
         be frontloaded 48 hours of sick leave.
      1.2 Employees who change their employment status, e.g. full-time
         to part-time forfeit their accrued balance subject to the provisions
         of #5 in this policy.


   2. Sick Leave Usage.
      2.1 Sick leave is a form of insurance to ensure pay continues during
         an illness, injury, or for other medical needs. It cannot be used as
         a substitute for other types of leave.
      2.2 Sick leave shall be considered abused when an employee has
         excessive absences or excessive use of sick leave, consistently
         carries a low balance or no balance, refuses to provide a medical
         release, uses sick leave for purposes contrary to this policy, or
         follows a pattern of using sick leave, such as Monday and Friday
         absences or a certain day of the week, absences before scheduled
         time off or holidays, or consistently takes sick leave during
         scheduled events, such as mandatory trainings. Abuse of sick leave
         may result in corrective action, up to, and including termination.
   3. Sick Leave Rules.
3.1 Sick Leave Reporting. An employee must make personal contact
   with their supervisor daily before, but no later than by the
   beginning of their shift, stating the reason for the absence, i.e. sick
   leave, and how they can be reached. (For sworn fire personnel, the
   firefighter should make contact with the on-duty Battalion Chief.) If
   the reason for absence makes contact with the supervisor
   impossible, a family member or representative may contact the
   employee’s supervisor. For extended absences, the daily contact
   may be waived. If the supervisor is not available, the employee
   should leave a message and contact the next level in supervision.
   A supervisor will require a medical release either for absences of
   three or more consecutive days or upon request.
3.2 Full-time employees are expected to report 40 hours per week
   on their timecard. An employee must have available sick leave for
   absences taken pursuant to this policy. Advance use of sick leave
   is not allowed. Any absence for reasons authorized by this policy
   that extends beyond accrued sick leave will result in the employee
   utilizing accrued vacation, followed by compensatory leave, then
   holiday time in order to have 40 hours for the workweek. In
   instances where an employee does not have sufficient sick leave,
   accrued vacation, compensatory time, or holiday time to have 40
   hours for the workweek, an employee will not be paid for the full
   40 hours. Reporting less than 40 hours for a workweek will be
   considered abuse of sick leave and may result in corrective action,
   up to, and including termination. Covering sick absences with other
   available time accrued does not constitute a change in leave
   status. For example, using vacation leave to cover the illness does
   not change the sick absence to vacation time off.
3.3   Sick leave shall not be used to extend a date of separation.
3.4 Sick leave does not count towards actual hours worked for the
   purpose of calculating overtime. If an employee works an extra
   shift or additional hours during a week where sick leave has also
   been used, the sick leave will be paid out at straight time and will
   not be counted as hours worked for overtime purposes.
3.5.Sick leave taken by exempt employees will be charged in
   minimum units of one half day of work (four hours). Full day
   absences will be reported as eight hours. Absences of less than
   four hours will not be counted against an exempt employee’s leave
   balance. Absences of more than four hours will require a
   substitution of four hours of sick leave. Exempt employees on
   approved FMLA may use sick leave on an hourly basis for
   intermittent leave or reduced schedules.
4. Department directors may require an employee who is sick or
   becomes sick and is potentially contagious on the job to stay at home
   or at some other approved location.

5. Sick Leave Conversion. Full-time employees may convert up to 40
   hours (48 hours for sworn fire personnel assigned to a 2912 schedule)
   of accrued sick leave to vacation, qualified URS retirement savings,
   health savings plan, or cash out. The amount will be calculated using
   the employee’s hourly wage multiplied by up to 40 hours (48 hours
   for sworn fire personnel). If an employee selects a cash conversion,
   the eligible amount will be paid out at 50% of the hourly rate. All
   other selections will be valued at 100%. Eligible employees must have
   a minimum sick leave balance of 480 hours (600 hours for sworn fire
   personnel assigned to 2912 schedule) after conversion. Conversion
   will occur at the end of the calendar year. The conversion will take
   place once a year on the second pay period in January. Employees
   must submit their desired conversion to Human Resources by
   December 31st. Conversion is subject to funds being available.

6. Sick Leave Separation Benefit. Full-time employees who have met
   certain tenure criteria with the city may elect to rollover a portion of
   their sick leave upon separation into a qualified health reimbursement
   account (HRA). The amount will be calculated based on the hourly
   rate of pay for nonexempt employees and weekly pay for exempt
   employees at time of separation. For this benefit only, sworn fire
   personnel assigned to 2912 schedule will have their annual rate at
   time of separation converted to 2080 hour per year schedule, then
   converted to an hourly rate of pay based off a 40-hour per week pay
   schedule.

      Up to 80 hours ≥ 10 years to ≤14.99 years
      Up to 160 hours ≥ 15 years to ≤19.99 years
      Up to 240 hours ≥ 20 years to ≤29.99 years
      Up to 320 hours - ≥ 30 years

7. No compensation for unused sick leave shall be given to an employee
   who terminates or is separated from employment other than what is
   stated in this policy.
