                               Development Review Committee
                                         1020 East Pioneer Road
                                           Draper, UT 84020
                                           November 2, 2023

To:             Draper City Planning Commission
                Business Date: November 16, 2023

From:           Development Review Committee

Prepared By:      Tevai Haunga, Planner I
            Planning Division
            Community Development Department
            801-576-6522, tevai.haunga@draperutah.gov

Re:     Joy’s Just Desserts, LLC– Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit Request
        Application No.: 2023-4543-USE
        Applicant:        Rachel Shepherd
        Project Location: 13822 S Tom Shoemaker Circle
        Current Zoning: RM (Multi Family Residential Zone) and South Mountain
                          Development Agreement.
        Acreage:          0.23 Acres (Approximately 10,018 square feet)
        Request:          Request for approval of a Home Occupation in the RM zone
                          for a cottage business making freeze dried goods in the
                          home.


BACKGROUND AND SUMMARY
This application is a request for approval of a Home Occupation for approximately
0.23 acres located at approximately 13822 S. Tom Shoemaker Circle (Exhibit B &
C). The property is currently zoned RM and is subject to the regulations of the
South Mountain Development Agreement including portions of the 1999 Draper City
Municipal Code. The applicant is requesting that a Home Occupation Conditional Use
Permit be approved for a cottage business. The applicant is making freeze dried
goods in the home. All sale of products will be done online. No customers or
employees are coming to the home.

The property is part of the Ridgewood Subdivision and the home was built in 2008.


ANALYSIS
General Plan and Zoning.
 Table 1                  General Plan and Zoning Designations         Exhibit
 Existing Land            Residential Medium Density                   Exhibit D
 Use


Joy’s Just Desserts, LLC                                              App. # 2023-
4549-USE
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit             1
 Current Zoning           RM                                                        Exhibit E
 Proposed Use
 Adjacent Zoning
    East                  RM
    West                  RM
    North                 RM
    South                 RM

The Residential Medium Density land use designation is characterized as follows:




According to the 1999 DCMC Section 9-4-030 the purpose of the RM zone was to
“provide areas for low-to-medium residential density' with the opportunity for
varied housing styles and character, providing for a maximum density of up to
twelve (12) units per acre for medium to high density residential unit projects
subject to conditional-use permit procedures and conditions for this type of use and
based on minimum development guidelines adopted by the City.”

Home Occupation. The applicant is requesting a Conditional Use Permit to run a
home based business making freeze dried candy, fruit and ice cream. All products
are made in the basement kitchen. Working hours are Monday- Friday 9-4 pm. All
orders are sold online or outside the home. The applicant has no employees and no


Joy’s Just Desserts, LLC                                                           App. # 2023-
4549-USE
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit         2
customers will come to the home.

1999 DCMC SECTION 9-4-140 Home Occupations

(a)     Notwithstanding other sections of this Title, a home occupation shall be
        considered a permitted use in any residential, multiple family and
        agriculture zone if the proposed use meets all of the following conditions:

        1.      The home occupation is a home office, beauty salon, pre-school or
                day care business, as regulated by the State of Utah.

                -The home occupation is not one of the listed occupations and
                therefore requires a Conditional Use Permit in accordance with the
                1999 DCMC Subsection 9-4-140(b).

        2.      The business is owned and operated by the resident of the home.

                -Joy’s Just Desserts is owned and operated by the home owner Rachel
                Shepherd, who resides in the home.

        3.      No employees, other than residents of the home, utilize the facility.

                -There are no employees who reside outside of the home.

        4.      For beauty salon, pre-school or day care business, the hours of
                operation do not begin before 7 a.m. or extend beyond 8 p.m.

                -Business hours are Monday-Friday 9 am - 4 pm.

        5.      A business license is obtained from, and continually maintained with
                the City.

                -The applicant will comply with this section requirement and maintain
                a business license with the city.

        6.      All facilities are inspected by the Fire Department prior to initial use
                and meet Fire Department standards at all times.

                -The applicant will comply with any and all inspections.

        7.      All drop-off or customer parking is accommodated on paved portions
                of the property.

                -There are no customers coming to the home.

(b)     Any home occupation which does not meet the provisions outlined above
        shall be processed as a Conditional Use in accordance with Section 9-2-104
        of this Title.


Joy’s Just Desserts, LLC                                                     App. # 2023-
4549-USE
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit        3
        -This application is for a Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit.

Criteria For Approval.
The 1999 DCMC Subsections 9-2-104(e) and 9-2-104(f) outline the standards
which the Planning Commission should consider in determining whether a
conditional use permit application should be approved, denied, or approved with
conditions:

(e)     Requirements. The Planning Commission may permit a conditional use to be
        located within any district in which the particular conditional use is allowed
        by the use regulations of this Title, and may impose such requirements and
        conditions as are necessary or desirable for the protection of adjacent
        properties and the public welfare. The Planning Commission shall not
        authorize a conditional use permit unless the evidence presented is such to
        establish that:
        1. The proposed use will not, under the circumstances of the particular case,
           be detrimental to the health, safety, or general welfare of persons
           residing or working in the vicinity, or injurious to property or
           improvements in the vicinity;
        2. The proposed use of the particular location is necessary or desirable to
           provide a service or facility which will contribute to the general well-being
           of the neighborhood and the community; and
        3. The proposed use will comply with regulations and conditions specified in
           this Title for such use and to the intent of the City General Plan.

(f)     Factors. The following factors shall be reviewed and considered by the
        Planning Commission in determining whether a conditional use permit
        application should be approved, denied, or approved with conditions.

        1.      The harmony and compliance of the proposed use with the objectives
                and requirements of the City General Plan and Zoning Ordinances.

        2.      The suitability of the specific property for the proposed use.

        3.      The development or lack of development adjacent to the proposed site
                and the harmony of the proposed use with the existing uses in the
                neighborhood.

        4.      Whether or not the proposed use or facility may be injurious to
                potential or existing development within the vicinity.

        5.      The economic impact of the proposed facility or use on the surrounding
                area.

        6.      The aesthetic impact of the proposed facility or use on the surrounding
                area.



Joy’s Just Desserts, LLC                                                    App. # 2023-
4549-USE
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit       4
        7.      Whether or not the proposed use or facility is necessary or desirable to
                the City.

        8.      The number of other similar conditional uses in the area and the public
                need for the proposed conditional use.

        9.      The present and future requirements for transportation, traffic, water,
                sewer, and other utilities, for the proposed site and surrounding area.

        10.     The safeguards proposed or provided to insure adequate utilities,
                transportation access, drainage, parking, loading space, lighting,
                screening, landscaping, open space, fire protection, and pedestrian
                and vehicular circulation.

        11.     The safeguards provided or proposed to prevent noxious or offensive
                omissions such as noise, glare, dust, pollutants and odor from the
                proposed facility or use.

        12.     The safeguards provided or proposed to minimize other adverse effects
                from the proposed facility or use on persons or property in the area.

        13.     The impact of the proposed facility or use on the health, safety, and
                welfare of the City, the area, and persons owning or leasing property
                in the area.

        14.     The appropriateness and compatibility of the proposed use with the
                use tables set forth in this Title for the zone in which the property is
                located.


REVIEWS
Planning Division Review. The Draper City Planning Division has completed their
review of the Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit submission. Comments from
this division, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Engineering and Public Works Divisions Review. The Draper City Engineering and
Public Works Divisions have completed their reviews of the Home Occupation
Conditional Use Permit submission. Comments from these divisions, if any, can be
found in Exhibit A.

Building Division Review. The Draper City Building Division has completed their
review of the Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit submission. Comments from
this division, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Fire Division Review. The Draper City Fire Marshal has completed his review of the
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit.

Noticing. Notice has been properly issued in the manner outlined in the City and


Joy’s Just Desserts, LLC                                                     App. # 2023-
4549-USE
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit        5
State Codes.


STAFF RECOMMENDATION
Staff recommends that the Planning Commission review the request based on the
findings listed below and the criteria for approval, or denial as listed within the staff
report. The Planning Commission should also review the request, hear from the
applicant, and receive public comment prior to making a decision.

If the Planning Commission decides to approve the request, staff recommends they
include the following conditions of approval:

        1. That all business requirements of the Draper City Engineering, Public
           Works Building, Business Licensing, Planning and Fire Divisions are
           satisfied throughout the operation of the business.
        2. A business license shall be maintained for the life of the business.
        3. No customers are allowed to come to the property.
        4. Employees who do not reside in the home are not permitted.

The findings for approval as are follows:

        1. Reasonable mitigation measures can be placed on the conditional use to
           alleviate anticipated detrimental effects.


The findings for denial as are follows:

        1. Reasonable mitigation measures cannot be placed on the conditional use
           to alleviate anticipated detrimental effects.


MODEL MOTIONS
Sample Motion for Approval – I move that we approve the Joy’s Just Desserts Home
Occupation Conditional Use Permit, as requested by Rachel Shepherd representing
application 2023-4589-USE based on the findings and subject to the conditions
listed in the Staff Report dated November 2, 2023.

Sample Motion for Modified Approval– I move that we approve the Joy’s Just
Desserts Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit, as requested by Rachel
Shepherd, application 2023-4549-USE, based on the findings and subject to the
conditions listed in the Staff Report dated November 2, 2023 and as modified by
the findings and conditions below:

        1. List any additional findings and conditions…

Sample Motion for Denial – I move that we deny the Joy’s Just Desserts Home
Occupation Conditional Use Permit as requested by Rachel Shepherd, application




Joy’s Just Desserts, LLC                                                   App. # 2023-
4549-USE
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit      6
2023-4549-USE, based on the findings listed in the Staff Report dated November 2,
2023.




Joy’s Just Desserts, LLC                                            App. # 2023-
4549-USE
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit   7
                                  EXHIBIT A
                             DEPARTMENT REVIEWS

REVIEWS ARE NOT MEANT TO BE AN ALL INCLUSIVE LIST OF POSSIBLE
COMMENTS OR CONDITIONS.

Planning Division Review.

      1. No additional comments provided.

Engineering and Public Works Divisions Review.

      1. The present and future requirements for transportation, traffic, water,
         sewer, and other utilities for the subject site do not appear to be
         detrimentally impacted as described. Given the location and proposed
         use, the use is not anticipated to generate a significant impact to water,
         sewer, or other potential utilities.
      2. The number of trips generated by the home owner/employees will not
         have a detrimental impact to traffic in the area due no employees and no
         customers visiting the house. The applicant has indicated product will be
         produced within the residence but will be sold online. With the applicant’s
         no customers and no additional employees, no significant impact to traffic
         is anticipated with the proposed use.
      3. No additional parking is anticipated for employees where the applicants
         being the only owner/employees. The applicant indicated no changes to
         the existing home use or parking. Based on the information from the
         applicant, no significant impact to parking is anticipated with the proposed
         use.
      4. The proposed use does not appear to be detrimental to the health, safety
         or general welfare of the persons residing or working

Building Division Review.

      1. No additional comments provided.

Fire Division Review.

      1. 2A-10BC Fire Extinguishers required. The extinguisher needs to be a
         serviceable type meaning metal head and metal neck. Extinguishers need
         to located in a conspicuous location where the will be readily accessible
         and immediately available for use. Placed on every level of the home. If in
         cabinet or not the extinguisher or cabinet needs to be mounted so that
         the top is more than five(5) feet above the floor.

      2. There shall be single station inter connected smoke detectors in good
         working condition on each level occupied by the clients. Battery operated
         smoke detectors shall be, permitted if the home demonstrates testing,
         maintenance, and battery replacement to insure continued operation of
   the smoke.

3. Visible Addressing Required. New and existing buildings shall have
   approved address numbers plainly legible and visible from the street
   fronting the property. These numbers shall contrast with their
   background.
  EXHIBIT B
VICINITY MAP
 EXHIBIT C
AERIAL MAP
  EXHIBIT D
LAND USE MAP
 EXHIBIT E
ZONING MAP
 EXHIBIT F
FLOOR PLAN
      EXHIBIT G
APPLICANT STATEMENTS
