                                   RESOLUTION NO. 23-65

       A RESOLUTION OF THE DRAPER CITY COUNCIL AMENDING
       SECTION 10400 OF THE PERSONNEL POLICIES AND PROCEDURES
       MANUAL REGARDING VEHICLE USAGE AND INCIDENT
       REPORTING POLICY

        WHEREAS, The City Council reviews and adopts policies and procedures to assist in the
efficient utilization of City resources and the fair and uniform application of requirements and
benefits to City employees; and

       WHEREAS, The City Council has reviewed Policy 10400 of the Personnel Policies and
Procedures Manual and has determined a need to amend the Vehicle Usage and Incident
Reporting Policy; and

      WHEREAS, The City Council believes this amendment is in the best interest of the
employees of Draper City.


      NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF DRAPER
CITY, STATE OF UTAH, AS FOLLOWS:

        Section 1.    Amendment. The Draper City Council does hereby adopt the amendments
to Policy 10400 of the Personnel Policies and Procedures Manual as attached hereto as Exhibit
“A.”

        Section 2.     Severability. If any section, part or provision of this Resolution is held
invalid or unenforceable, such invalidity or unenforceability shall not affect any other portion of
this Resolution, and all sections, parts and provisions of this Resolution shall be severable.

        Section 3.     Effective Date. This Resolution shall become effective immediately upon
its passage.

     PASSED AND ADOPTED BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF DRAPER CITY, STATE
OF UTAH, THIS THE 06 DAY OF NOVEMBER, 2023.


                                              DRAPER CITY

ATTEST:


___________________________________ By: ___________________________
Laura Oscarson, CMC, City Recorder      Mayor
VOTE TAKEN:               YES   NO

Councilmember Green

Councilmember T. Lowery

Councilmember F. Lowry

Councilmember Roberts

Councilmember Vawdrey

Mayor Walker
                                        EXHIBIT “A”

                   Section 10400 – Vehicle Usage and Incident Reporting
                                   (Amended 11/06/2023)

General Policy Statement:

    Draper City employees are accountable for the safe and responsible operation of City
Vehicles and shall follow the guidelines set forth in this policy when driving. This policy
establishes procedures for City Vehicle usage and reporting and reviewing any Reportable
Incident that takes place involving a City Vehicle.

Definitions:

“City Vehicle” is any vehicle or motorized equipment or trailer owned by the City or a personal
or rental vehicle while being operated on city business.

“Reportable Incident” is any incident involving a City Vehicle that results in damage to a City
Vehicle or another vehicle or any real or personal property, an injury to any person, the
immobilization of any City Vehicle or another vehicle, or has the potential to become a liability
claim. This includes any accident involving the use of a City Vehicle whether damage was
sustained or not.

“Preventable Incident” is an incident in which the employee did not follow proper procedures or
did not do everything reasonably expected to avoid the incident.

“Non-Preventable Incident” is an incident in which the employee followed proper procedures
and did everything that could be reasonably expected to avoid the incident.

Policy:

1. Employees are accountable for the responsible use of City Vehicles. An employee who
   drives any City Vehicle on city business must:

   A) Have Valid Utah Driver License. Maintain a valid Utah driver license for the
      appropriate class of vehicle being operated.
   B) Carry Insurance Coverage. When driving a personal vehicle while on city business,
      employees must ensure that they have vehicle liability insurance in at least the minimum
      amounts required by state law and carry proof of such coverage. The employee assumes
      liability for their personal vehicle while using it for city business. The City does not
      provide any insurance to repair damage that may occur to the employee’s personally
      owned vehicle.
   C) Be Free from Impairment. No employee may operate a City Vehicle while their
      performance is impaired by alcohol, any controlled substance, or any prescribed or over-
      the-counter medication. An employee who drives a City Vehicle as part of their job
      duties shall notify their supervisor if they are taking any prescribed or over-the-counter
      medication that may impair their ability to safely operate a vehicle.
   D) Check City-owned Vehicle. Inspect the vehicle and confirm that it is in safe operating
      condition as per departmental procedures. An employee must not tamper with or
      otherwise alter any safety equipment installed on or in a City-owned vehicle or alter a
      City-owned vehicle in any manner. The Fleet division is responsible for maintaining
      City-owned vehicles.
   E) Follow Personnel Policy. Read and comply with Section 10350 Distracted Driving.
   F) Obey Traffic Laws. Observe all traffic laws, including wearing a seatbelt whether
      driving or as a passenger.
   G) Assume Responsibility for Fines and Tickets. Report any tickets while driving a City
      Vehicle to the employee’s immediate supervisor within one business day and pay any
      assessed fines, tickets or parking violations according to the deadline imposed.
   H) Parking. City Vehicles shall be backed into a parking space or positioned forward in a
      pull through parking space when being parked in perpendicular parking stalls. Backing
      into a parking space does not apply to diagonal parking, except where required by law.

2. Reportable Incidents. All Reportable Incidents shall be reported to the employee’s
   supervisor, and, if applicable, to the appropriate local law enforcement agency.

3. Employee/Driver Responsibility in the Case of a Reportable Incident:

   A) Stop at Once. If possible, and safe to do so, leave vehicles in place until Draper City
      Police or Fire department personnel direct otherwise.
   B) Call for Assistance. Contact Draper City Police and medical assistance (contact 911, if
      needed).
   C) Ensure Safety. Set out warning devices if they are available, and turn on hazard lights.
   D) Remain at the Scene. Do not leave the scene of the incident until Draper City Police
      arrive and you are told you may leave.
   E) Do Not Admit Fault. Do not discuss the incident with anyone except the Draper City
      Police, your supervisor, Department Director, Risk Manager, or City Manager.
   F) Contact Your Supervisor. All Reportable Incidents shall be reported immediately by the
      employee to their immediate supervisor. Failure to report may result in disciplinary
      action, up to, and including termination.
   G) Cooperate with Draper City Police. The Draper City Police may have a driver
      information form for all vehicle operators to fill out. Information needed to complete the
      form, i.e. registration and insurance card should be located in the glove box of each City
      Vehicle.
   H) Complete Forms. Complete all appropriate city incident forms located in the accident
      packet in the glove box of the vehicle and submit them to the supervisor within one
      business day of the reportable incident. Failure to do so may result in disciplinary action,
      up to, and including termination, and personal liability for damages.
   I) Document the Scene. If a supervisor or designee is not on scene, take thorough pictures
      of all vehicles involved in the reportable incident, as well as the surrounding scene.
   J) Conflicts of Interest. Reportable Incidents that involve City Vehicles with non city-
      owned vehicles or property, should be investigated by other police departments or
      public safety agencies, whenever possible.

4. Supervisor Responsibility:

   A) The supervisor or designee of the employee(s) involved in a Reportable Incident shall
      respond to the scene of the incident. The supervisor shall notify the Department
      Director, Fleet Manager, and Risk Manager as soon as practical.
   B) The supervisor or designee shall ensure that all appropriate forms are filled out properly,
      and thorough photos are taken of the vehicles involved, damage to other property, as
      well as the scene, in a timely manner.
   C) The supervisor or designee will ensure that the employee is post-accident screened as
      soon as practical, but no later than six hours after the accident by taking the employee to
      the City’s designated approved local testing facilities. Supervisors shall not leave the
      employee unattended until screening has been completed. If the vehicle was unattended
      at the time of the Reportable Incident and the cause of the accident is not linked to any
      action of the driver, there is no need to post accident screen the employee. Exceptions to
      post accident screenings require documented supervisor and Risk Manager approval,
      e.g., minimal damage to City Vehicle and no other third-party property damage, and no
      fault/no damage to third-party property.
   D) The supervisor or designee shall conduct an initial investigation and submit all
      paperwork and associated photos to the Risk Manager, their Department Director, and
      Fleet Manager as soon as possible, but no later than two business days after the
      Reportable Incident.
   E) The affected department and Risk Manager will conduct a thorough review of the
      accident and investigation.
   F) The Fleet division will inspect all city-owned vehicles to assess damages and safety of
      vehicle no later than five business days after the Reportable Incident.
   G) The City Manager shall be notified as soon as possible if there are injuries involved with
      the Reportable Incident.
   H) All non-drivable city-owned vehicles damaged in the Reportable Incident shall be towed
      to Public Works. Either the Draper City Police department or Fleet Manager will call for
      tow.

5. Department Director Responsibility:

   A) Ensure that employees and supervisors understand and comply with this policy.
   B) Notify the Risk Manager and Fleet Manager as soon as practical and confirm that an
      incident report is prepared and sent to Risk Management no later than two business days
      after the accident.
   C) Impose discipline recommended by the Accident Review Committee (ARC) using the
      disciplinary matrix below and, if applicable, in accordance with Section 5030 Corrective
      Action – Performance Management and 6080 Employee Conduct and Work Rules for
      consistency between departments and to ensure that any appropriate disciplinary action
      takes place in a timely manner. If the appropriate disciplinary action was not taken as
      recommended by the ARC or outlined by the disciplinary matrix, the Department
      Director will state in writing to the City Manager why the appropriate disciplinary
      action was not followed.
   D) Provide a copy of the signed disciplinary action taken, to human resources for retention
      in the employee’s personnel file.

6. Accident Review Committee. An internal Accident Review Committee (ARC) is
   established consisting of the following representatives: Assistant City Manager, Finance
   Director, Fleet Manager, Human Resources Director, and Risk Manager. The City Attorney
   serves on the ARC Committee in an advisory capacity. This committee shall review all
   Reportable Incidents involving City Vehicles and other city-owned and operated assets.
   This committee must have at least three representatives present for final recommendations
   to be made. The ARC may also convene and review any incident or loss event at the special
   request of the City Manager or affiliated Department Director.

   The ARC will meet together with the involved employee and their Department Director or
   designee. The Department Director or designee shall come prepared to give a detailed
   account of the incident in question. Attendance by the involved employee is mandatory
   absent extenuating circumstances upon which the involved employee may request to
   reschedule one time in writing to their Department Director. The Risk Manager will chair
   the committee during the ARC review.

   The ARC shall meet on a regular basis, as determined by the City Manager, to
   review accidents and determine:
   A) The cause of the Reportable Incident.
   B) Whether the Reportable Incident was preventable or non-preventable.
   C) Whether the employee was following safety policies and practices.
   D) How similar incidents may be prevented in the future.
   E) Whether disciplinary action is warranted, and if so, what level of discipline is
        warranted. The Human Resources Director shall follow-up with the Department
        Director to ensure that appropriate disciplinary action was enacted and documented.
        The Risk Manager will maintain a record to ensure there is consistency between all
        departments.
   F) Whether additional training or policy changes or both need to be implemented to
        address the causes of a Preventable Incident.

7. Disciplinary Matrix (based on Section 5030 – Corrective Action – Performance
   Management)

   A) No action is required.
   B) Documented counseling May also be required to take a defensive driving course.
   C) Written corrective action.
   D) Written corrective action and up to a two-day suspension without pay. May also
      include a performance improvement plan, defensive driving course, ride-along and
      coaching or other corrective measures.
   E) Dismissal. Comply with Section 5030.

    Disciplinary Matrix                                         A      B     C     D      E
    Non-preventable incident/accident                           X
    Preventable incident no damage                              X
    Repeat preventable incident within 180 days                        X
    Failure to report a vehicle incident                               X
    Preventable incident involving minor damage less than              X
    $5,000
    Preventable incident with damage equal to or greater than                X
    $5,000 but less than $10,000
    Failure to observe traffic laws                                          X
    Failure to follow Draper City Policy                                     X
    Preventable incident involving injury                                    X
    Repeat vehicle or equipment incidents within 180 day                     X
    time period
    Driving with unsecured load that causes an incident                      X
    Preventable incident involving damage equal to or                              X
    greater than $10,000
    Leaving the scene of an accident                                               X
    Repeat preventable incidents involving damage or injury                        X
    within 6 month time period
    More than three preventable incidents within 180 day                           X
    time period
    Pattern of more than four incidents within a 30 day time                       X
    period (preventable or non-preventable)
    Operating vehicle or equipment while impaired (failed                                 X
    breath alcohol or drug screen)
    Reckless driving resulting in ticket                                                  X
    Willful intent to harm                                                                X
    Preventable incident that results in the death of another                             X
    person

8. ARC Findings and Recommendations. A written record summarizing the ARC’s findings
   and recommendations will be prepared by the Risk Manager. A copy will be sent to the
   Department Director. The Department Director will make the final decision on any and all
   applicable disciplinary or corrective actions taken and implemented. Departments may be
   more restrictive in their disciplinary action, but not less.
9. Action Taken. The Department Director will also compile a written statement indicating the
   final decision made, including supporting commentary, and submit it to the City Manager.
   Any disciplinary or corrective action the Department Director imposes shall follow the
   disciplinary procedures outlined above and as stated in Section 5030. The involved
   employee’s immediate supervisor will be responsible for administering or monitoring the
   implementation of the recommended actions or programs as chosen by the Department
   Director. A copy of all disciplinary action shall be forwarded to Human Resources for
   retention in the employee’s personnel file.

10. Appeals. There is no right to appeal the ARC’s findings and recommendations. An appeal
    of any discipline or corrective action decision or implementation resulting from an incident
    will follow the standard disciplinary appeal process as outlined in Section 5030.
