                                   ORDINANCE NO. 1583

        AN ORDINANCE OF DRAPER CITY AMENDING THE TEXT OF THE LAND USE
        AND LAND DEVELOPMENT CODE (TITLE 9) AND THE LAND DEVELOPMENT
        CODE (TITLE 17) OF THE DRAPER CITY MUNICIPAL CODE RELATING TO
        DEFINITIONS, PLAN REVIEW, SITE DESIGN, WATER-WISE LANDSCAPING,
        PARKING AREA DESIGN, OUTDOOR STORAGE, IMPROVEMENT COMPLETION
        ASSURANCES, AND SUBDIVISION REQUIREMENTS IN CODE SECTIONS 9-33-
        040, 9-5-090, 9-22-050, 9-23-010, 9-23-020, 9-23-030, 9-23-040, 9-23-050, 9-23-
        060, 9-23-070, 9-23-080, 9-23-090, 9-23-100, 9-23-110, 9-23-120, 9-23-130, 9-23-
        140, 9-23-160, 9-23-170, 9-25-080, 9-27-230, 17-1-040, 17-4-075, AND 17-5-060
        AND ENACTING SECTION 9-23-055.

      WHEREAS, Utah State law grants to Draper City the authority to regulate uses of
property by enacting land use and subdivision regulations, among other methods; and

       WHEREAS, it is necessary from time to time to amend certain terms of the Draper City
Municipal Code to address provisions that become diminished in appropriateness,
applicability, or clarity; and

       WHEREAS, the Land Use and Development Code and the Land Development Code of
the Draper City Municipal Code (collectively the “Development Codes”) have been
established to provide regulations concerning development activity within the City
boundaries; and

      WHEREAS, the City Council of Draper City adopted the Development Codes to guide
development concerning development activity within the City boundaries; and

       WHEREAS, the City Council of Draper City finds good cause to amend the terms and
provisions of the Development Codes and to enact new provisions regarding definitions,
plan review, site design, water-wise landscaping, parking area design, outdoor storage,
improvement completion assurances and subdivision regulations; and

      WHEREAS, notice has been issued according to the requirements of the Utah Code
Annotated and Draper City Municipal Code for public hearings before the Planning
Commission and City Council to receive public input regarding the proposed changes to the
Development Codes; and

       WHEREAS, the Planning Commission and City Council have each held a public hearing
to receive public input regarding the proposed changes to the Development Codes.

      NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF DRAPER CITY, STATE
OF UTAH, AS FOLLOWS:

Ordinance No. 1583                            1           Water-Wise Landscaping and Site Amendments
                                                                                     Text Amendment
        Section 1.   Findings. The City Council of Draper City has made the following
findings that the proposed text amendment regarding the Development Codes: 1. The
proposed amendments are consistent with goals, objectives and policies of the city's
general plan. 2. The proposed amendments further the specific purpose statements of the
Development Codes. 3. The proposed amendments are appropriate given the context of
the request and there is sufficient justification for a modification to the Development
Codes. 4. The potential effects of the proposed amendments have been evaluated and
determined not to be detrimental to public health, safety, or welfare and represents an
overall community benefit. 5. The proposed amendments implement best current,
professional practices of urban planning, design, and engineering practices.

        Section 2.   Amendment. Sections 9-33-040, 9-5-090, 9-22-050, 9-23-010, 9-23-
020, 9-23-030, 9-23-040, 9-23-050, 9-23-060, 9-23-070, 9-23-080, 9-23-090, 9-23-100, 9-23-
110, 9-23-120, 9-23-130, 9-23-140, 9-23-160, 9-23-170, 9-25-080, and 9-27-230 of the Land
Use and Development Code and Sections 17-1-040, 17-4-075, 17-5-060 of the Land
Development Code of the Draper City Municipal Code are hereby amended to read as set
forth in Exhibit A.

       Section 3.    Enactment. Section 9-23-055 of the Land Use and Development Code
of the Draper City Municipal Code is hereby enacted as set forth in Exhibit A.

      Section 4.    Correction of Editing Errors. The city attorney is authorized to correct
any punctuation, spelling, formatting, clerical, or de minimum errors in Exhibit A prior to
submitting the ordinance for publishing.

        Section 5.   Severability. If any section, part or provision of this Ordinance is held
invalid or unenforceable, such invalidity or unenforceability shall not affect any other portion
of this Ordinance, and all sections, parts and provisions of this Ordinance shall be severable.

        Section 6.   Effective Date. This Ordinance shall become effective immediately
upon publication or posting, or 30 days after final passage, whichever is closer to the date of
final passage.

PASSED AND ADOPTED BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF DRAPER CITY, STATE OF UTAH, ON THE
___________DAY OF___________, 2023.

                                                   DRAPER CITY



                                                   _____________________________
                                                   Mayor Troy K. Walker



Ordinance No. 1583                             2           Water-Wise Landscaping and Site Amendments
                                                                                      Text Amendment
ATTEST:



_________________________________
Laura Oscarson, CMC, City Recorder



 VOTE TAKEN:                             YES                      NO

 Councilmember Green

 Councilmember T. Lowery

 Councilmember F. Lowry

 Councilmember Roberts

 Councilmember Vawdrey

 Mayor Walker




Ordinance No. 1583                   3         Water-Wise Landscaping and Site Amendments
                                                                          Text Amendment
                                          EXHIBIT A



9-3-040: DEFINITIONS:
…
CALIPER: A trunk diameter measurement consistent with the American Standard for
Nursery Stock ANXI Z60.1 standard (as amended). Generally, for trees the measurement is
taken six inches (6") above the ground or soil line up to and including four inch (4") caliper
size interval. If the caliper measurement when taken at six inches (6") above the ground
meets or exceeds four and one-half inches (4-1/2"), the caliper size is instead measured at
twelve inches (12") above the ground.
…

BUBBLER: An irrigation head that delivers water to the root zone by “flooding” the planted
area, usually measured in gallons per minute. Bubblers exhibit a trickle, umbrella or short
stream pattern.
…

DECIDUOUS TREE: A plant species which sheds leaves at the end of the growing season,
has a dormant period without leaves, and regrows the leaves at the beginning of the next
growing season. Most deciduous plants bear flowers and have woody stems and broad
leaves rather than needlelike leaves.
…

DRIP EMITTER: Drip irrigation fittings that deliver water slowly at the root zone of the plant,
usually measured in gallons per hour.
…

EVERGREEN TREE: A plant species with needles or leaves which remain alive and on the
tree through the winter months and into the next growing season.
…

GRASS: Monocotyledonous plants from the botanical family Poaceae or Gramineae having
narrow leaves, hollow stems, and clusters of very small flowers.

GRASS, ORNAMENTAL: Varieties of grass including grass-like perennial plants (sedges and
rushes) that serve no purpose other than decoration. Characteristic foliage includes thick
reed-like blades attached to stems topped by an inflorescence or seed head grown in
bunches or clumps. As used in this title, ornamental grass does not include grass varieties
used as Turf, Lawn or Sod.
…
GROUND COVER: Live plantings, not including lawn or turf that form a continuous cover
over the ground that can be maintained at a height not exceeding twelve inches (12”) from
the surface.
…

HARDSCAPE: Patios, decks, walls, paths and similar man-made features that are part of an
integrated landscape design. This definition does not include driveways, sidewalks, parking
areas, or other paved walkways required for pedestrian access.
…

LANDSCAPING OR LANDSCAPE: The area within a site or lot which consists of living plants,
such as trees, shrubs, vines, ground covers, flowers or grass. This area can also include
natural features, such as rocks, stones, bark chips and structural features, such as
fountains, ponds, artwork and benches. Landscaping can be used to soften the impacts of
the built environment or provide recreational opportunities. The area of a development
consisting of natural or introduced live vegetation together with accompanying earthwork
and mulch that provide visual enhancement to the development. Landscaping can also
include related outdoor features placed together with the vegetation such as decorative
boulders, fountains, ponds, artwork, and benches. Also includes the act of installing the
foregoing.

LANDSCAPE ARCHITECT: A person who holds a professional license to practice landscape
architecture in the state of Utah.

LANDSCAPE DESIGNER: An individual that does not hold a professional license for
landscape architecture but can otherwise demonstrate the necessary qualifications and
competency in landscape design such as possession of an undergraduate degree in
landscape architecture or horticulture from a regionally accredited educational institution,
or certification as a Utah Certified Nursery Professional. Also includes individuals who
possess a Utah professional license as an architect, engineer, or land surveyor and are
permitted by the State to stamp plans that fall under the practice of landscape
architecture.

LANDSCAPE EDGING: Metal, concrete, plastic, or other similar durable, weather, and rot
resistant material that is used to separate different elements of a landscape from one
another.

LANDSCAPE GRADING PLAN: Schematic, scaled drawing(s) showing finish grades, spot
elevations as necessary and existing and new contours with the developed landscaped
area.

LANDSCAPE IRRIGATION PLAN: Schematic, scaled drawing(s) showing the layout and
components of the system for providing water to the landscaped areas of a site.
LANDSCAPE PLANTING PLAN: Schematic, scaled drawing(s) of a site or property showing
the general layout of all landscaped areas.
…

MULCH: Materials such as rock, bark, wood chips or similar materials left loose and applied
over the soil for the purposes of water conservation, reducing weed growth, and enhancing
the visual appeal of an area.
…

NATURAL SURVEILLANCE: A Crime Prevention Through Environmental Design (CPTED)
design principal and concept directed primarily at keeping intruders under observation and
limiting the opportunity for crime by increasing the perception that people can be seen.
…

OPEN SPACE: Generally unobstructed land, such as, but not limited to, landscaped buffers
and yards, parks, trails, meadows, forested areas, pastures, and farm fields. An area of
land, inclusive of any wetlands or watercourses, open to the sky and not occupied by
buildings, structures, parking areas, driveways, streets, alleys, or the like, which is set aside,
dedicated, designated, retained, or reserved for use as passive or active recreation or for
resource protection. The area is intended to remain in an undeveloped, natural, or
naturalized state by design, but this definition also extends to include other intentionally
landscaped areas of a site serving the same purposes in instances where an undeveloped
or natural state is not specified by the ordinance.
…

ORNAMENTAL TREES: Either deciduous or evergreen trees which provide decoration within
a landscape setting due to a defining feature, such as flowers, foliage, texture, form, shape
or other aesthetic characteristics.
…

PARK STRIP: The area located along each side of a street between a street right of way line
and the edge of asphalt or curb, but not including driveways, sidewalks, or trails. Does not
include approved and permitted sidewalks, driveway approaches, curbs, or trails. The
definition is also inclusive of the term city tree planting strips.
…

PLANT, ANNUAL: A plant species that completes its entire life cycle within a single growing
season in which all roots, stems, and leaves of the plant die at the end of growing season.

PLANT, BIENNIAL: A plant species that requires two growing seasons to complete its life
cycle in which all roots, stems, and leaves of the plant die at the end of the second season.
PLANT, PERENNIAL: A plant which persists for many growing seasons, usually with new
herbaceous growth from a part of the plant that survives from growing season to growing
season. As used in this title it includes ornamental grasses but not turf, lawn, or sod.

PLANTING BED: A well-defined and physically separate area from other adjacent
landscaped areas utilized for planting annual, biennial, and perennial plants, small shrubs,
and non-turf ground covers.
…

SHADE TREES: A tree grown specifically to provide shade within a landscaped area. While
they can be either deciduous or evergreen, these trees are typically tall with spreading
canopies.
…

SHRUB: A woody, multi-stemmed, perennial plant species. As used in this title the term
refers collectively to deciduous and evergreen varieties, except where the specific term
evergreen shrub is used

SHRUB, EVERGREEN: A woody, multi-stemmed, perennial plant species with needles or
leaves that remain alive and on the plant through the winter months and into the next
growing season.
…

SOD: Cultivated turf that has been cut into sections and harvested in rectangular slabs or
rolls, to facilitate transportation to and installation at another site. Installation is referred to
as sodding, and the practice reduces the time it takes to make turf areas within a landscape
design functional, typically within thirty (30) days.
…

STREET TREE: An approved tree placed within a park strip, the landscaped portion of a
right-of-way, or within fifteen feet (15’) of the nearest edge of the right-of-way line. Street
trees along public streets are considered public landscaping improvements only when all
tree maintenance is performed by the city.
…

TREE, DECIDUOUS: A tree species which sheds leaves at the end of each growing season.

TREE, EVERGREEN: A tree species with needles or leaves that remain alive and on the tree
through the winter months and into the next growing season.
…

TURF: A surface layer of earth containing mowed grass with its roots. Includes the terms
lawn and sod.
TURF, ARTIFICIAL: Any of various synthetic, carpet like materials made to resemble turf.
…

WATER-CONSERVING PLANT: A plant that can generally survive with available rainfall once
established although supplemental irrigation may be needed or desirable during times of
limited rainfall. Synonymous with the terms water-wise plantings, drought tolerant plant
and xeriscape landscaping.
….



9-5-090: SITE PLAN REVIEW:
…
D. Procedure: An application for site plan approval shall be considered and processed as
    provided in this subsection.
    1. A complete application shall be submitted to the office of the zoning administrator
       in a form established by the administrator, along with any fee established by the
       city's consolidated fee schedule. The application shall include the following
       information:
       a. The name, address and telephone number of the applicant and the applicant's
           agent, if any.
       b. The uses for which site plan approval is requested.
       c. A certified occupancy survey at a scale no smaller than one inch equals one
           hundred feet (1" = 100') showing the deed boundary, all deed boundaries of
           adjacent parcels, and all existing natural and manmade features, such as fences,
           ditches, buildings, etc., within fifty feet (50') of the property line.
       d. A single electronic set of development plans showing the information required in
           subsections D(1)(d)(1) to D(1)(d)(6) of this section. The information required by
           each subsection shall be shown on separate sheets. Plans shall be drawn at a
           scale no smaller than one inch equals one hundred feet (1" = 100'). Plan sets
           shall be prepared, stamped and signed by the professional, licensed with the
           state of Utah, who prepared the drawings or is professionally responsible for the
           drawings content, including the engineering, landscaping and architectural
           drawings. The development plans shall include:
           (1) Site plan showing the following:
               (A) All facilities related to the project located within two hundred fifty feet
                   (250') of the site boundary.
               (B) Layout, dimensions, and names of existing and future road rights of way.
                   (New street names must be cleared through the county.)
               (C) Project name, north arrow, legend and tie to a section monument.
               (D) The boundary lines of the project site with bearings and distances.
    (E) Layout and dimensions of existing and proposed streets, buildings,
        parking areas, driveways, easements, setbacks, overhangs for setbacks,
        and landscape areas.
    (F) Location, dimensions, and labeling of other features such as bicycle racks,
        dumpsters, trash cans, fences, retaining walls, nearest fire hydrant,
        signage, mechanical equipment, etc.
    (G) Location of manmade features, including irrigation facilities, bridges,
        railroad tracks, and buildings.
    (H) A tabulation table, showing total gross acreage, square footage of street
        rights of way, square footage of building footprint, square footage of total
        building floor area, square footage of landscaping, number of parking
        spaces, and square footage of impervious surfaces.
    (I) Identification of property, if any, not proposed for development.
    (J) Defensible space provisions and elevations, if required by the Utah
        Wildland Urban Interface Code adopted under Utah Code Section 15A-2-
        103.
(2) Grading and drainage plan showing the following:
    (A) North arrow, scale, legend and site plan underlay.
    (B) Topography at one foot (1') intervals.
    (C) Areas of substantial earthmoving shown as new elevation contour lines,
        including with an erosion control plan.
    (D) Location of existing watercourses, canals, ditches, springs, wells, culverts,
        and storm drains, and proposed method of dealing with all irrigation and
        wastewater.
    (E) Location of any designated floodplain and/or wetland boundaries.
    (F) Direction of stormwater flows, catch basins, inlets, outlets, waterways,
        culverts, detention basins, orifice plates, outlets to off- site facilities, and
        off site drainage facilities when necessary.
    (G) Property lines and street names, existing and proposed buildings, walls,
        fences, utilities, paved areas and other site improvements.
    (H) Finish grades and spot elevations as applicable to included site features.
(3) Utility plan showing the following:
    (A) North arrow, scale, legend and site plan underlay.
    (B) All existing and proposed utilities, including, but not limited to: sewer,
        culinary water, secondary water, fire hydrants, storm drains, subsurface
        drains, gas lines, power lines, communications lines, cable television lines,
        and streetlights.
    (C) Location and dimensions of all utility easements.
    (D) A letter from sewer and water providers, addressing the feasibility and
        their requirements to serve the project.
(4) Landscaping plan A landscape plan package, consistent with the
    requirements of chapter 23 of this title, showing inclusive of the following:
    (A) North arrow, scale, legend and site plan underlay.
    (B) Sprinkler system layout and type of heads.
    (C) Flow rate assumed for sprinkler system.
    (D) Plant materials and location, including species and size.
    (E) Any other information required by chapter 23 of this title.
    (A) Project data, details, and specifications:
         (i) Project name and property address;
         (ii) Name of the property owner;
         (ii) Names, business addresses, phone numbers and email addresses of
               the applicant, landscape architect, and landscaping contractor;
         (iii) The scale of each drawing in both graphical and written formats;
         (iv) The date of the design, and dates of any revisions;
         (v) A north arrow; and
         (vi) Additional details and specifications from the Landscape Architect or
               Landscape Designer for tree staking, soil preparation, irrigation
               component installation, and other similar landscape work.
    (B) A detailed landscape planting plan showing:
         (i) A legend listing each symbol and line type used in the drawing;
         (ii) The location of existing and proposed buildings, walls, fences, utilities,
               amenities, property lines, sidewalks, streets, pavement, impervious
               areas, and other similar site improvements;
         (iii) The location, size, and quantities of all existing and proposed trees,
               plants, and landscaping materials;
         (iv) An indication as to which existing trees, plants, and landscaping
               materials will be removed, and the specific measures that will be
               taken to protect existing trees, plants and landscaping that will remain
               through construction; and
         (v) The botanical and common names of all trees and plants used within
               the plan;
     (C) A detailed landscape irrigation plan, drawn at the same scale as the
         planting plan, containing the following:
         (i) Layout of the irrigation system and a legend summarizing the type
               and size of all components of the system;
         (ii) The location of pressure regulators within the system and the water
               pressure they will be set to; and
         (iii) For systems utilizing culinary or potable water, the plan must include
               the location of backflow prevention devices.
(5) Lighting plan, consistent with the requirements of chapter 20 of this title.
(6) Architectural renderings (building elevations) for all buildings showing the
    following:
    (A) Accurate front, rear, and side elevations drawn to scale.
    (B) Exterior surfacing materials and colors, including roofing material and
         color.
    (C) Outdoor lighting, furnishings and architectural accents.
           (D) Location and dimensions of all signage proposed to be attached to the
                building or structure.
       (7) Floor plans for each floor of the building, including any unroofed balconies or
           patios, and any rooftop patios or landscaped space, showing the following:
           (A) A scaled, dimensioned, and labeled layout of the building interior,
                including the location of all walls, doors, windows, stairwells, and fixed
                furnishings.
           (B) The intended use and individual square footage of each room or area.
           (C) The calculated square footage of each floor attributable to the total floor
                area of the building and a separate calculation of the square footage of
                any unroofed balconies or patios excluded from the total floor area
                calculation of the building.
    e. Soils report, geotechnical reports, and geologic hazard reports as required
       elsewhere in this Title.
    f. Drainage report including hydraulic and hydrologic storm drainage calculations.
       100-year events may need to be accommodated in certain locations in the path
       of major drainages. See the Drainage Design Criteria for calculation
       requirements. Drainage plans shall facilitate a 10-year storm event. A maximum
       stormwater controlled release rate of 0.1 cubic feet per second per acre shall be
       the maximum permitted discharge in the Salt Lake County portion of Draper
       City. In the Utah County area of Draper City, no discharge shall exceed
       demonstrated historical flows from any drainage or sum of drainages. Further
       reductions in release rates may be required in situations of insufficient
       stormwater system capacity.
    g. Any necessary agreements with adjacent property owners regarding storm
       drainage or other pertinent matters.
    h. When the project is located within the sensitive lands overlay zone, additional
       reports as required by chapter 16 of this title.
    i. Evidence of compliance with all applicable federal, state, and local laws and
       regulations as may be requested by the zoning administrator.
    j. Traffic impact analysis, if requested by the city engineer or the planning
       commission.
    k. Preliminary title report or ALTA survey.
    l. Wastewater discharge approval from South Valley water reclamation facility, if
       required by the South Valley water reclamation facility.
    m. For site plans that include new proposed streets, a letter from the Salt Lake
       County Addressing department indicating that the proposed name is both
       available and has been reserved for use by the development. Availability or
       reservation of a proposed street name with Salt Lake County does not constitute
       approval of the proposed street name or addressing from Draper City.
…
9-22-050: SITE DESIGN:
A. Building Placement: Building placement is integral to the site design and the overall
   effect any development has on surrounding properties. Building placement shall be
   carefully considered as part of the overall development review.
   1. All buildings shall be located with the main facade and main entrance facing the
       principal street to which it has frontage.
   2. Buildings located on corner lots shall orient main facades to each street and give
       equal architectural treatment to each.
   3. Buildings located on corner lots should include a prominent architectural feature of
       greater height or emphasis at the corner where the two (2) public streets meet.
   43. Buildings should shall be located as close to the front property line as possible
       considering site, use, and other constraints or requirements of service providers or
       of this title.
   54. Main entrances shall be oriented toward the street rather than parking in cases
       where buildings can be located adjacent to the public right of way. Building
       placement on a site shall account for the provision of required open space,
       landscaping, facilities, services, and amenities as specified elsewhere in this title and
       be situated to take advantage of existing site characteristics that create privacy, and
       the beneficial exposure of the building interior to natural light and air circulation.

B. Context: New development shall consider the site design and building placement of
   surrounding development in order to create a site which relates to its surroundings and
   adds positively to the overall built environment in the site area. Additionally, all
   developments shall consider natural features, such as view corridors, water channels,
   topography, and vegetation, as integral features to be preserved, enhanced, and which
   will contribute to the site.

C. Miscellaneous Site Considerations: The small details that sometimes become
   afterthoughts of site planning and design are important factors for making aesthetically
   attractive sites. The following shall be implemented during initial site planning:
   1. Landscaped areas and walls shall be used to decrease noise levels and separate
      loading and service bays from customer parking where possible. Service and
      loading bays (automotive, service, tire, etc.) should be oriented away from
      neighboring residential areas and major public streets. The general public should
      be restricted from accessing such areas when possible.
   2. Approved outdoor storage areas shall be fully screened from view using the
      same materials as the building or approved masonry fencing. Enclosures shall
      also be surrounded by landscaping to further soften their visual impact. The
      general public shall be restricted from accessing such areas.
   3. Outdoor refuse and garbage collection containers shall be fully screened from
      view using the same materials as the building or approved masonry fencing.
      Enclosures shall also be surrounded by landscaping to further soften their visual
      impact. The general public shall be restricted from accessing such areas.
   4. Shopping cart corrals are highly visible and needed to keep development sites
      safe and orderly. Corrals shall be located in fixed positions and be made of the
      same material as the building. Shopping corrals shall also contain some similar
      architectural or design features as the building.
   5. Generators and other large auxiliary equipment shall be placed at locations
      where they will be least intrusive in terms of noise, appearance, and odors,
      particularly for occupants of neighboring properties. Site plans should also
      consider public utilities equipment placement and communicate early in the
      planning process with the various public utility providers about potential utility
      equipment placement on the site.
      a. Equipment should be kept low to the ground.
      b. Exhaust systems shall not protrude above the equipment.
      c. Walls, landscaping, and other screening shall be used.

B. Service Areas, Outdoor Storage, and Screening: Screening and separation of service
   areas, utility equipment, mechanical equipment, outdoor storage areas, and other
   similar areas within a development is required. To accomplish the necessary screening
   and separation, the design of these areas shall comply with the following:
   1. Loading and service bays:

      a. Landscaped areas or walls shall be used to separate loading and service bays
         from customer parking.
      b. Loading and service bays shall be oriented away from adjacent residential areas
         and major public streets.
      c. The design and layout of loading and service bays shall be designed to prevent
         public access to them.
   2. Outdoor Storage:
      a. Outdoor storage areas shall comply with the provisions of section 9-27-230 of
         this title and be screened from view in accordance with the same.
      b. The area surrounding an outdoor storage enclosure shall be landscaped in
         accordance with chapter 9-23 of this title, except in locations necessary for
         vehicular access to the storage area.
      c. Outdoor storage areas shall be designed to restrict public access to them.
   3. Trash, refuse and garbage collection:
      a. Outdoor containers for trash, refuse and garbage collection are required for all
         development sites.
      b. Containers for recycling collection are recommended, and shall be subject to the
         same standards as trash, refuse, and garbage collection.
      c. Containers for trash, refuse and garbage collection shall be screened from view
         on all sides by an opaque enclosure, a minimum of six feet (6’) in height, built
         using the same materials and colors as the building, or masonry or concrete
         fencing.
   d. Gates that facilitate access for trash collection trucks shall be required on one
       side of the enclosure. Gates may be constructed predominantly or exclusively of
       metal components, but must be designed and painted to be architecturally
       compatible with the design of the principal building(s) on the site, and the other
       sides of the enclosure.
   e. Gates and openings that facilitate access for trash collection trucks shall not be
       oriented towards or parallel to major public streets, except where the enclosure
       is located behind the principal building, or more than one-hundred twenty feet
       (120’) from the street.
   f. The gate and enclosure design shall incorporate features capable of fixing the
       gate in both the closed and open position. Gates shall remain closed, except
       during active collection and disposal of accumulated wastes.
   g. Except for the area in front of a gate, the area immediately surrounding the
       enclosure shall be landscaped in accordance with chapter 9-23 of this title.
   h. The enclosure shall be designed to prevent illegal dumping and restrict access by
       pests and nuisance animals.
   i. Enclosures for trash, refuse, and garbage collection shall not be located closer
       than ten feet (10’) to a property line.
   j. As an exception to the conditional use permit requirement of section 9-27-080 of
       this title, the zoning administrator may approve or require that a taller enclosure
       be built, up to a maximum of ten feet (10’) in height, upon finding that the
       additional height is needed to mitigate existing or potential negative impacts to
       neighboring properties, visitors or employees.
4. Shopping cart corrals:
   a. Corrals shall be required for all commercial and retail establishments that
       provide shopping carts for the convenience of customers
   b. Corrals shall be anchored to the ground at fixed locations within the parking
       area.
   c. Corrals may not be located within required landscape planter islands.
5. Utility equipment and meters, generators, mechanical systems, and other similar
   auxiliary equipment:
   a. The location of all utility boxes, meters, generators, large auxiliary equipment,
       ground mounted building mechanical systems and the like shall be shown on
       the site plan and on the landscape planting plan.
   b. The location and placement of such equipment within a site shall provide
       mitigation of the negative impacts of noise, appearance, or odors that the
       equipment may create, particularly for occupants of neighboring properties.
   c. Generators, auxiliary equipment, and other ground mounted building
       mechanical systems, shall rest directly on the ground, or a ground level concrete
       pad not more than four inches (4”) above grade. Where equipment is mounted
           to supports or anchors, the bottom of the equipment may not be located higher
           than six inches (6”) from the ground or concrete pad surface.
      d.   Exhaust systems shall not protrude above the equipment.
      e.   Utility boxes, utility meters, generators, other large auxiliary equipment, ground
           mounted building mechanical systems and the like shall be screened from public
           view. A combination of walls, opaque fences, and landscaping may be utilized.
      f.   As an exception to the conditional use permit requirement of section 9-27-080 of
           this title, where walls or fences are used to screen the equipment identified in
           subsection 9-22-050(B)(5), the zoning administrator may approve, or require, a
           taller screen or enclosure to be built, up to a maximum of ten feet (10’) in height,
           upon finding that the additional height is needed to mitigate existing or potential
           negative impacts to neighboring properties, visitors, or employees.
      g.   The proposed location, size, and operational needs of public utilities and utility
           equipment located on a development site shall be coordinated by the property
           owner or applicant together with the applicant’s architect, civil engineer,
           landscape architect or designer, and the various public utility providers prior to
           the submission of a site plan and landscaping plans to the City.
      h.   Once a site plan and landscape plan have been approved by the city, changes
           made or proposed to the location, number, or the physical size of above ground
           utility boxes, meters, generators, and other auxiliary equipment shall require
           submittal of an updated plan detailing the proposed site screening and
           landscaping changes. Revised plans must receive city approval in writing prior to
           installation of the appurtenance(s) and landscaping.

C. Amenities: Amenities shall be used to enhance and beautify the site and provide
   recreational areas and conveniences for patrons, visitors, residents, and employees.
   1. With the exception of developments subject to the Multiple-Family Dwelling
      Development Standards found in Chapter 32 of this title, outdoor amenities are
      required for every development on a site with a combined building total floor area
      of twenty-thousand square feet (20,000 ft²) or greater.
   2. Outdoor amenities include:
      a. Seating areas, including patios, decks, porches, benches, tables, and pergolas;
      b. Water features;
      c. Garden areas designed for active use;
      d. Pedestrian plazas;
      e. Natural open space; or
      f. Other areas designed and designated for recreational use or convenience of
          those utilizing them.
   3. Outdoor amenities shall be integrated into the overall landscape plan design.
   4. Property owners and managers shall not permit landscaping to overgrow or impede
      pedestrian paths or areas.
   5. Each development subject to the requirements of this subsection shall provide a
      minimum of two (2) amenities from the list in 9-22-050(C)(2) above and additional
      amenities as follows:
      a. Public, Civic, Municipal and Institutional uses:
         (1) One (1) additional outdoor amenity for each additional twenty thousand
             (20,000) square feet of floor area.

      b. Commercial uses:

         (1) One (1) additional outdoor amenity for each additional thirty thousand
             (30,000) square feet of floor area.
      c. Industrial/manufacturing uses:
         (1) One (1) additional outdoor amenity for each additional forty thousand
             (40,000) square feet of floor area.
      d. Agricultural business, industry, or processing uses
         (1) One (1) additional outdoor amenity for each additional forty thousand
             (40,000) square feet of floor area.

D. Landscaping: Landscaping shall be used as a tool to enhance and beautify the site, and
   the building's architecture and design comply with the site design requirements of this
   section and the landscaping requirements found in chapter 9-23. All developments
   subject to this chapter that are required to provide public landscaping improvements or
   infrastructure improvements, as defined in Utah State Code, shall install such
   improvements, or post an improvement completion assurance for these items in the
   manner outlined in 17-4-075 of this code, prior to conducting any other development
   activity. All other required landscaping, with the exception of street trees, shall be
   installed no later than September 30th of the following calendar year after an approved
   use is commenced or a certificate of occupancy is issued, or one year from the date an
   approved use is commenced or a certificate of occupancy is issued, whichever is
   sooner.
   1. At least twenty percent (20%) of any development site shall be devoted to
       landscaping, exclusive of park strips and walkways. Additional landscaping should
       be provided as needed to achieve compatibility between differing, adjacent land
       uses, such as residential and commercial.
   2. Outdoor amenities are required for every development on a site with a combined
       building floor area totaling twenty thousand (20,000) square feet or greater.
       Outdoor amenities are designed for pedestrians and create plazas or other focal
       points that are inviting to site patrons. These amenities shall be located near
       entrances or other focal points within the development where they will be
       convenient and comfortable for users. Restaurants and other similar uses are
       encouraged to provide additional outdoor seating areas for their patrons, but shall
       not include these areas as an outdoor amenity if restricted to only paying
       customers. Outdoor amenities may include the following:
        a. Seating areas, including patios, decks, porches, benches, tables, and pergolas;
        b. Water features;
        c. Garden areas designed for active use.
     3. Landscaping shall be integrated into the design, placement, and enhancement of
        pedestrian plazas, sitting areas, walkways, flagpoles, and signs. This may be
        accomplished by giving special attention to any plantings immediately adjacent to
        pedestrian areas and walkways. This landscaping shall not overgrow or impede
        pedestrian areas but rather allow for detail and aesthetics more amenable to
        pedestrians.
     4. Vegetative ground cover should be utilized for at least eighty percent (80%) of a
        development site's frontage along any public right of way and in required landscape
        areas between a building and the park strip, not including sidewalks, trails, and
        entry points.
     5. Drought resistant shrubs and trees should be used wherever possible in
        conjunction with efficient low water use irrigation systems. A list of low water use
        plants is available from the community development department.
….



9-23-010: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to promote the health, safety and welfare of city residents by
establishing establish minimum standards for the preservation, installation and continued
maintenance of landscaping and buffering. This chapter is intended to achieve the
following The objectives of this chapter are:

A. To protect existing desirable and significant vegetation and trees.

B. To promote water conservation by encouraging requiring the use of water-wise
landscape design principles and water-conserving plantsdrought tolerant landscape
material.

C. To enhance the value and appearance of property by buffering land uses.

D.     To buffer and mitigate impacts between conflicting land uses. To reduce air and
noise pollution.

E. To maintain and improve environmental conditions by providing through mitigations in
air, water, soil, and, noise pollution as well as reductions in solar glare, urban heat effect,
air purification, oxygen regeneration, groundwater recharge and decreased stormwater
runoff, noise and glare.

F. To improve the aesthetic appearance of all development by establishing minimum
landscaping, buffering, and site design standards that will blend with and enhance the
natural and built environment. Improve public health and general welfare of city residents,
employees and visitors.



9-23-020: SCOPE; EXEMPTIONS:
A. Except as may be specifically otherwise provided elsewhere in this title, the standards
   of this chapter shall apply to all new development and to expansions and modifications
   of existing development. All landscaping, buffering and site design features required by
   this chapter and previous regulations shall be continuously maintained according to the
   approved development plans and the standards contained herein.

B. Single-family dwellings and development Bona-fide agricultural uses within agricultural
   zones and Residential Agricultural zones, shall be exempt from the standards of this
   chapter. Properties and areas of a property engaged in agricultural industry,
   agricultural processing, and agricultural sales and service uses as defined in section 9-3-
   040, are not included in this exemption.

C. Landscaping for properties containing a detached single-family or two-family dwellings
   are exempt from the standards found in sections 9-23-040, 9-23-055, 9-23-070, 9-23-
   090, 9-23-100, 9-23-110, 9-23-120, and the tables found in section 9-23-170, but shall
   comply with all other requirements pertaining to water-wise landscaping, including the
   installation and maintenance of street trees and park strips.



9-23-030: DEVIATIONS FROM STRICT COMPLIANCEJORDAN VALLEY WATER
CONSERVANCY DISTRICT EFFICIENCY STANDARDS:
A. Deviations Authorized: Since site conditions and development constraints vary
   greatly among sites, the planning commission is authorized to approve landscape
   plans that deviate from strict compliance with the provisions of this chapter if it
   makes the findings required in subsection B of this section.
   1. Such a deviation may include the use of water wise materials in lieu of otherwise
      required materials.
   2. Any proposed deviation from the requirements of this chapter shall be:
      a. Clearly identified on the proposed landscape plan; and
      b. Accompanied by a written description of the proposed deviation showing how
          the purpose and intent of this chapter will be met by the proposed plan.

B. Findings Required: The planning commission may authorize a landscape plan
   deviation only if it finds the deviation:
   1. Is consistent with the purpose of this chapter and any applicable master plan or
      ordinance;
   2. Reflects a design that conforms to the requirements of this chapter to the
      greatest extent possible and offers alternative methods for addressing the
      landscape requirement for which a deviation is being requested. Alternative
      methods may include additional fencing, berming and plant material than what
      would otherwise be required;
   3. Will not adversely affect neighboring property owners or residents;
   4. Will not adversely affect sight distance or otherwise diminish public safety;
   5. Is justified by site constraints; and
   6. Is of high quality and integrates aesthetically with the design of the primary
      buildings on site and established streetscape.
A. In addition to the specific requirements and design standards of this title, developer or
   contractor installed residential, commercial, institutional and industrial construction
   shall comply with the Jordan Valley Water Conservancy District (JVWCD) standards for
   water efficiency, as applicable. The JVWCD outdoor landscaping standards are also
   required for new landscaping construction installed by homeowners.

B. JVWCD Outdoor Landscaping Standards.
   1. All new and rehabilitated landscaping for public agency projects, private
      development projects, developer-installed landscaping in multi-family and single-
      family residential projects within the front and side yards, and homeowner provided
      landscape improvements within the front and side yards of single and two-family
      dwellings shall comply with the landscaping standards below:
      a. Activity zones: Portions of the landscape designed for recreation or function,
          such as storage areas, fire pits, vegetable gardens, and playgrounds.
      b. Active recreation areas: Areas of the landscape dedicated to active play where
          Lawn may be used as the playing surface (ex. sports fields and play areas).
      c. Central open shape: An unobstructed area that functions as the focal point of
          Localscapes and is designed in a shape that is geometric in nature.
      d. Gathering areas: Portions of the landscape that are dedicated to congregating,
          such as patios, gazebos, decks, and other seating areas.
      e. Hardscape: Durable landscape materials, such as concrete, wood, pavers, stone,
          or compacted inorganic mulch.
      f. Lawn: Ground that is covered with grass or turf that is regularly mowed.
      g. Localscapes: A landscaping approach designed to create locally adapted and
          sustainable landscapes through a basic 5-step approach (central open shape,
          gathering areas, activity zones, connecting pathways, and planting beds).
      h. Mulch: Any material such as rock, bark, compost, wood chips or other materials
          left loose and applied to the soil.
      i. Park strip: A typically narrow landscaped area located between the back-of-curb
          and sidewalk.
      j. Paths: Designed routes between landscape areas and features.
      k. Planting bed: Areas of the landscape that consist of plants, such as trees,
          ornamental grasses, shrubs, perennials, and other regionally appropriate plants.
      l. Total landscaped area: Improved areas of the property that incorporate all of the
          completed features of the landscape. The landscape area does not include
       footprints of buildings or structures, sidewalks, driveways, and other non-
       irrigated areas intentionally left undeveloped.

C. JVWCD Landscaping Requirements. The following reflect the published
   requirements of the JVWCD water efficiency standards not specifically contained
   elsewhere in this chapter. They are applicable as outlined in subsection 9-23-030(A)
   above.
   1. All irrigation shall be appropriate for the designated plant material to achieve
       the highest water efficiency.
   2. Lawn shall not be installed on slopes greater than twenty-five percent (25%) or in
       areas less than eight feet (8’) in width. To the extent reasonably practicable, lawn
       shall be free from obstructions (trees, signs, posts, valve boxes, etc.).
       a. The following areas are exempt from these slope limitations and landscaping
           requirements:
           (1) storm water management areas:
           (2) public facilities,
           (3) private schools; and
           (4) private parks.
   3. In residential landscapes, the landscaping shall adhere to the following
       Localscapes® requirements:
       a. If size permits, the landscaped areas of the front yard and back yard shall
           include a designed central open shape created by using lawn, hardscape,
           groundcover, gravel, or mulch.
       b. Gathering areas shall be constructed of hardscape and placed outside of the
           central open shape. In a landscape without lawn, gathering areas may
           function as the central open shape.
       c. Activity zones shall be located outside of the central open shape and shall be
           surfaced with materials other than lawn.
       d. Paths shall be made with materials that do not include lawn, such as
           hardscape, mulch, or other groundcover.
       e. Lawn areas shall not exceed the greater of two-hundred fifty (250) square
           feet, or thirty-five percent (35%) of the total landscaped area.
       f. Small residential lots, which have no back yards, which the total landscaped
           area is less than two-hundred fifty (250) square feet, and which the front
           yard dimensions cannot accommodate the minimum eight feet (8’) wide lawn
           area requirement of the landscaping requirements of subsection 9-23-
           030(C)(2) are exempt from the eight feet (8’) minimum width lawn area
           requirement.
   5. The JVWCD outdoor standards are not intended to be in conflict with other
       landscaping requirements as defined by Utah law, including stormwater
       retention requirements and low-impact development guidelines.
       Notwithstanding the JVWCD outdoor standards, whenever any JVWCD
          requirement may be in conflict with Utah law, the conflicting JVWCD requirement
          shall not apply.



9-23-040: LANDSCAPE PLANS:
Wherever landscape Landscape plans are required by this title, such plans shall:

A. Demonstrate compliance with the provisions of this chapter;
B. Be submitted in accordance with the administrative and development review
procedures of as provided in chapter 5 of this title; and
C. Be sealed by a landscape architect or landscape designer licensed to practice in the
state of Utah.



9-23-050: SITE LANDSCAPE DESIGN CRITERIA:
Proposed landscape Landscaping and landscape plans shall be reviewed for compliance
comply with the standards of this chapter and the following design requirements:

A. Plant Selection and Arrangement: All elements of site development shall be arranged to
   create a safe, functional, convenient, healthful, durable and attractive living
   environment for residents, tenants, workers and occupants of properties. All sloped
   areas shall be stabilized against erosion by living or rock/paving landscaping or other
   appropriate means as determined by the city, both during and following development.
   1. Plants and trees shall be well-suited to the microclimate and soil conditions of the
      site. Both native and locally–adapted plants are acceptable.
   2. Plants with similar water needs shall be grouped together and placed on the same
      irrigation circuit in order to create irrigational system efficiency and prevent
      overwatering.
   3. Areas with slopes greater than twenty five percent (25%) shall be landscaped with
      deep rooting, water-conserving plants, and shall not include turf.
   4. Tree species shall be selected based on growth characteristics and site conditions,
      including available space, overhead clearance, soil conditions, exposure, and
      screening capabilities.
      a. Deciduous tree species with a broad canopy shall be utilized to provide shade in
           parking lots and above paved areas of the site, and to help screen large or tall
           objects.
      b. Where trees are required to be planted under overhead utility wires, low-
           growing trees shall be selected. Recommended species include those listed in
           the adopted Draper City approved tree list for use in parking strips beneath
           power lines.
      c. Trees planted adjacent to vehicular or pedestrian areas of the site, or in areas
           that would impede the implementation of natural surveillance as part of efforts
             to incorporate CPTED design principles into the site, shall select specimens and
             species that allow lower tree branches to be trimmed to maintain the minimum
             clearance between the ground and the tree canopy for site safety, without
             creating detrimental impact to the health or growth habit of the tree.
        d. Narrow or columnar trees shall be planted in small spaces, or where awnings or
             other building features limit growth. Columnar trees may also be placed in the
             area between a building and the sidewalk, or within the right-of-way where there
             is no sidewalk, in order to provide greater visibility for natural surveillance.
        e. Street trees shall be planted and maintained in compliance with section 9-23-080
             of this chapter.
   5.   Turf areas must be eight feet (8’) wide or wider.
   6.   For non-residential, multiple-family, and mixed use landscapes turf may not cover
        more than twenty percent (20%) of the total landscaped area not including areas
        utilized for active recreation such as sports fields.
   7.   All landscaped areas adjacent to buildings shall have trees, shrubs, and other
        plantings, except where entries or other paving preclude it.
   8.   The particular characteristics of a tree or plant species and the locational
        relationship to the building, sightlines, utilities, and required maintenance shall
        factor into the selection and placement of trees and plants within the landscape.

B. Buildings: Buildings shall be located to ensure the provision of adequate open space for
   outdoor living areas, facilities, services and amenities and to provide natural indoor
   light, air and privacy.
   1. All buildings, other structures, and parking lots shall be located to integrate with the
       natural topography and to minimize deep cuts and fills, excessive foundation wall
       depth, unnecessary steps, use of vertical retaining walls, and steep access gradients.
   2. All areas adjacent to buildings should have vertical landscaping (trees, shrubs,
       bushes, etc.) except where entries and other paving preclude it.

C. Circulation: Safe and convenient pedestrian and vehicular circulation shall be provided.

BD. Climate: Planting layout and design shall include the placement of trees, plants, shrubs
   and other landscape features in locations that mitigate the negative effects of extreme
   or elevated temperatures, sunlight, wind, and other climatic factors should be mitigated
   by appropriate site layout and design, including placement of landscaping.

CE. Grading: Site grading shall be designed and implemented to:
    1. Retain existing desirable major trees and vegetation within required perimeter
       planting areas, land use buffers, yards and other areas of the site per the
       requirements of section 9-23-070 whenever possible;
    2. Make use of existing natural drainage waysdrainageways; and
   3. Minimize increased runoff and erosion; and.
   4. Buffer objectionable noise and views.

F. Integration: Landscaping design should be integrated with building and site design.
   Consideration should be given to planting types, growth rates, canopy sizes and
   required maintenance in relationship to building location, sightlines and
   underground/aboveground utilities.

DG. Water-Wise Landscape Techniques: The use of water wise Water-wise landscape
   practices to minimize the need for supplemental watering is are required strongly
   encouraged. Landscape plans should reflect and shall implement at a minimum the
   following techniques:
   1. Using water-wise plant species materials with comparatively low moisture
       requirements;
   2. Selecting plants on the basis of specific slope, aspect, soil and microclimate
       conditions;
   3. Using native and adapted plant species;
   43. Minimizing the amount of irrigated turf area;
   54. Planting and designing slopes to minimize runoff;
   65. Separating irrigation zones according to plant water requirements and using
       drip/trickle irrigation systems to conserve water;
   76. Emphasizing soil improvement Conserving existing topsoil and making
       improvements to the soil by conserving topsoil, deeply loosening soil, and
       incorporating organic matter and amendments based on soil tests; and
   87. Using mulch in planting areas to reduce water evaporation, weed growth, and to
       promote soil cooling, and reduce evaporation.

EH. Storm Water Infrastructure: Detention and retention basins shall be landscaped and
   maintained. The use of low impact development systems and techniques to encourage
   infiltration, evapotranspiration and reuse of storm water is required.

F. Landscape Area Amounts:
   1. Non-residential and mixed use: Except where a lesser amount is specified elsewhere
      in this title, at least twenty percent (20%) of the gross area of the development site
      shall be devoted to landscaping. Required landscaping in park strips and other
      similar areas within the right-of-way are not included in this total.
      a. The area of planting beds designed exclusively for annual or biennial plants shall
          not exceed thirty percent (30%) of the landscaped area of the site, not including
          area covered with turf or groundcover.
   2. Multiple-family residential: Landscaping amounts shall follow the development
      standards found in chapter 32 of this title.
   3. Single-family and two-family residential: Minimum landscape area amounts shall be
      as follows:
      a. Front yard:
              (1) Fifty percent (50%) of the total area of each front yard, for lots and
                  parcels equal to or greater than eight-thousand square feet (8,000 ft²) in
                  size,
              (2) Two-hundred and fifty square feet (250 ft²), for lots and parcels less than
                  eight-thousand square feet (8,000 ft²) in size.
      b. Side and rear yards: As determined by the homeowner(s).

G. Plant Coverage: Live plant materials (not including trees) shall cover a minimum of fifty
   percent (50%) of the landscaped area within the first two (2) growing seasons following
   planting, and a minimum of seventy-five percent (75%) of the landscaped area at ten
   (10) years. Planting beds that include annual or biennial plantings shall be planted
   annually each spring with sufficient plants to create a minimum annual coverage with
   live plant materials of seventy-five percent (75%) of the area of the planting bed at the
   time the annual or biennial plants reach maturity.
   1. For non-residential, mixed use, and multiple-family properties, the landscape
        architect or landscape designer shall calculate and include the plant coverage rates
        as notations on the landscape planting plan, in accordance with the following:
       a. Tree and plant symbols shown within the site layout of a landscape planting plan
           shall be scaled to indicate their typical coverage or spread equivalent to their
           size at ten (10) years from planting, or at their full maturity, whichever comes
           first.

H. Species Diversity: Landscape planting plans, as required by this title, shall include a
   variety of plant, shrub, and tree species in order to provide visual and biological
   diversity within the landscape and as a safeguard against the detrimental effects that
   might occur should a particular plant or species succumb to disease. Within the
   landscape planting plan, the following shall apply:
   1. No species of plant or shrub, shall account for more than twenty percent (20%) of
       the total coverage area of all plants and shrubs.
   2. A single species of tree may not be utilized for:
       a. More than twenty-five percent (25%) of the total number of trees for sites with
           ten (10) or more required trees;
       b. More than fifty percent (50%) of the total number of trees for sites with between
           four (4) and ten (10) required trees;
   3. Trees may be of a single species where three (3) or fewer trees are required.
I.   Soil Preparation: Soil preparation shall be suitable for providing healthy growing
     conditions for the plants and encourage water infiltration and penetration. Soil
     preparation shall include scarifying the soil to a depth of six inches (6”) or greater and
     amending the soil with fertilizer or organic material.
     1. For non-residential, mixed-use, and multi-family properties, the landscape architect
         or landscape designer shall have a laboratory analysis of the site soils composition
         preformed and included details regarding the type, quantity, and rate of soil
         amendments to be added to each planting area with respect to the nutrient needs
         of the selected plants within the landscape plan.
     2. For new single-family and two-family residential sites obtaining a laboratory analysis
         of the site soils to help inform the type, quantity, and rate of soil amendments is
         recommended but not required.



9-23-055: IRRIGATION:
A. A Landscape Irrigation Plan is required to be submitted as part of a complete
   landscaping plan package. The plans shall include at a minimum the details required in
   this section and subsection 9-5-090(D)(1)(d)(4)(C).

B. Pressure Regulation: In areas where the static service pressure from the water meter
   exceeds eighty pounds per square inch (80 PSI), a pressure regulating valve shall be
   installed as part of the irrigation system design and shall be maintained by the property
   owner. The pressure-regulating valve shall be located between the water meter and the
   first point of water use, or first point of division in the pipe, and shall be set at the
   manufacturer's recommended pressure for sprinklers.

C. Irrigation Controller: Landscaped areas shall be provided with an EPA-certified
   irrigation controller or equivalent which automatically adjusts the frequency and
   duration of irrigation events in response to changing weather conditions. All controllers
   shall be equipped with automatic rain delay or rain shut-off capabilities.

D. Each irrigation valve shall irrigate landscaping with similar site, slope and soil
   conditions, and plant materials with similar watering needs. Lawn and Planting Beds
   shall be irrigated on separate irrigation valves. In addition, drip emitters and sprinklers
   shall be placed on separate irrigation valves.

E. All non-turf landscape areas shall be irrigated by drip irrigation or bubblers.

F. Drip irrigation systems shall be equipped at a minimum with a pressure regulator, filter,
   and flush-end assembly.
G. Where pop-up sprinkler heads are used to irrigate turf areas they must clear the top
   level of the turf.

H. Sprinklers shall be scheduled to operate between 6 p.m. and 10 a.m.

I.   Program schedules shall be set to water plants for multiple short cycles with a rest or
     soak period between cycles to reduce runoff in areas with slow infiltration rates and
     where slopes are equal to or greater than fifteen percent (15%).

J. Areas of a site left undeveloped or as natural open space shall not include permanent
   irrigation.
K. For areas that will be revegetated with native water-wise plant species with the intent to
   naturalize or restore the area to resemble natural open space, details for any necessary
   temporary irrigation to support plant establishment shall be included in the landscape
   irrigation plan. Temporary irrigation systems shall be removed after plant
   establishment.



9-23-060: VISUAL OBSTRUCTIONS AT INTERSECTIONS:
Landscape Landscaping and landscape plans shall conform to the visual obstruction
requirements of section 9-27-080 of this title.



9-23-070: TREE AND VEGETATION PROTECTION:
Development shall be designed to preserve existing trees and vegetation to the greatest
extent possible and shall incorporate existing significant stands of trees as well as
individual trees. Specimen preservation may be required for existing trees being a caliper
of four inches (4") or more measured four feet (4') aboveground. Existing trees and
vegetation that are to be preserved shall be identified on site plans and preliminary
subdivision plats and shall be protected from all construction activities, including
earthwork operations, movement and storage of equipment and materials and dumping of
toxic materials. A minimum protection zone shall be established by installing temporary
fencing at or beyond the drip line of the vegetation to be preserved. Protective fencing shall
be maintained throughout the construction period.

A. Development and landscape designs shall be designed to preserve existing trees and
   vegetation within the areas of required perimeter plantings, land use buffers, and
   yards.
B. Existing trees and vegetation located within the areas described in subsection 9-23-
   070(A) above shall be preserved and may not be removed, except as provided for in
   subsection 9-23-070(F) below.

C. Existing trees four inches (4”) in caliper or greater and vegetation located within the
   areas described in subsection 9-23-070(A) above shall be identified on site plans and
   preliminary subdivision plat including the caliper measurement of each tree.

D. A minimum protection zone shall be established on the site plan or preliminary
   subdivision plat around each tree or vegetated area at or beyond the drip line of the
   trees or vegetation to be preserved.

E.   Prior to the commencement of grading or construction activities on a site the developer
     shall install temporary protective fencing around the perimeter of the tree and
     vegetation protection zones identified on the site plan or preliminary subdivision plat.
     The developer shall be responsible to see that the trees and vegetation being fenced
     are protected from construction activities, including but not limited to, earthwork
     operations, the movement and storage of equipment and materials, and the dumping
     of chemicals.

F.   The zoning administrator may permit the removal of existing trees and vegetation
     under the following conditions:
      1. All existing trees and vegetation proposed for removal must be indicated as such
         on the site plan or subdivision preliminary plat.
      2. Existing trees and vegetation located within the required perimeter planting, land
         use buffer, or yard area may not be removed, except where:
        a. Planned vehicular or pedestrian access to or on the property necessitates the
            removal of specific trees or areas of existing vegetation;
        b. Necessary site grading to control storm water requires the removal of specific
            trees or areas of existing vegetation;
        c. The developer or property owner provides written certification from a certified
            arborist that an existing tree is diseased, dead, dying or is an invasive species
            and should be removed;
        d. Additional tree or plant installation for screening or buffering is required in the
            same area and the preservation of the existing vegetation (not including existing
            trees) would prevent or inhibit installation of the required landscaping; or
        e. The location or other characteristic of an existing tree is causing or is likely to
            cause a nuisance or damage to adjoining properties. The dropping or blowing of
            leaves, needles, cones, or seeds shall not be considered a nuisance under this
            section.
9-23-080: PARK STRIP LANDSCAPING:
All park strips shall be landscaped pursuant to applicable requirements of title 17 of this
code and other applicable provisions of this code the following.

A. Street Trees:
   1. Street trees shall be selected from the adopted Draper City street tree guide.
   2. Street trees shall not be located within park strips less than five feet (5’) wide.
   3. Street trees shall be provided at a minimum ratio of one (1) tree for each forty feet
       (40’) of street frontage.
   4. Street trees shall be at least two inches (2”) in caliper at time of planting.
   5. In areas where there is no sidewalk or five feet (5’) or less between the sidewalk and
       curb, street trees shall be installed within fifteen feet (15') of the right-of-way.
   6. Street trees shall be irrigated through the use of bubblers or drip irrigation.

B. Maintenance: Property owners are responsible for the irrigation and maintenance of
   required street trees and other vegetation in park strips abutting their property
   pursuant to Section 9-23-140.



9-23-090: PERIMETER LANDSCAPING: This section is applicable to all developments not
otherwise exempted under the provisions of section 9-23-020 of this title. Minimum
perimeter landscaping shall be required as follows:

Plantings as specified in section 9-23-170, tables 9-23-1 and 9-23-2 of this chapter, shall be
provided around the perimeter of each development site, except single-family and duplex
lots, based on the orientation of property and the classification of the roads adjacent to the
site. Perimeter plantings may be located anywhere between the property line and adjacent
pavement or structure, in a landscaped area of the minimum horizontal depth designated.
However, the minimum number of shade trees along street frontages should be located
within fifteen feet (15') of the right of way or as close to the right of way as site features
allow. The minimum depth of the perimeter landscaped area along front, rear and interior
lot lines shall be ten feet (10'). In instances where the minimum building setback is allowed
to be zero per this title, no perimeter landscaping is required between a building and the
front property line in order to encourage building presence in the streetscape. Where the
requirements of a land use buffer along the same property line exceed those of the
perimeter plantings, the land use buffer requirements shall supersede.
A. The perimeter of each development site shall be landscaped as specified in this section
     and tables 9-23-1 and 9-23-2 in section 9-23-170 of this chapter.

B. The minimum depth of the perimeter landscaped area along front, rear and interior lot
   lines shall be ten feet (10'), except:
   1. In locations where a land use buffer is required, the width requirements of the land
      use buffer shall supersede;
   2. In locations not subject to a land use buffer where the building is setback less than
      ten feet (10’) as permitted by the zone;
   3. In locations where vehicular access or cross access touches or crosses shared
      property lines as permitted or required by this code; or
   4. Along shared rear and side property lines not subject to a land use buffers, the
      minimum depth adjacent to vehicular parking areas, including applicable access
      aisles and drives, may be reduced to five feet (5’).



9-23-100: PARKING LOT LANDSCAPING:
Except for developments exempted under section 9-23-020 of this title, every Every parking
lot with more than ten (10) spaces and three thousand five hundred (3,500) square feet shall
contain internal landscaped areas based on the following design criteria:

A. Amount Of Landscaping: The Except in zoning districts where a different amount is
   specified, the amount of landscaping on within each parking lot shall be as shown
   below. follows: When lots are provided on a multiuse site, the amount shall be
   determined based on the predominant use served by the parking spaces. Total parking
   lot area shall be measured along the perimeter of the lot, including all parking spaces,
   accessways, and landscaped islands within the perimeter and at the corners of the lot.
   Total parking lot area shall not include loading and service areas, but shall include
   customer service drive-up areas and accessways jointly used by parking lot and service
   traffic:
   1. Multiple-family residential sites: Ten percent (10%) of total parking lot area.
   2. Office and commercial sites: Seven percent (7%) of total parking lot area.
   3. Industrial or warehouse sites: Five percent (5%) of total parking lot area
   4. For mixed-use sites, the amount shall be determined based on the predominant use
       based on the square footage of the building(s) served by the parking spaces.

B. DesignCalculations: Parking lot islands shall be at least five feet (5') wide and one
   hundred (100) square feet in area. A minimum of one tree shall be planted per three
   hundred (300) square feet of overall internal landscaped area, with at least one shade
   tree planted in each island. The remainder of the island shall be landscaped with
   additional shrubs, ground cover, or turf, and shall include an appropriate irrigation
   system. Plants and trees may be grouped in order to create larger landscaped area.
   Plantings should:
   1. Anticipate foot traffic patterns;
   2. Be used to discourage foot traffic where dictated by safety concerns; and
   3. Not impair adequate visibility for the safety of pedestrians and vehicles.
         1. Total parking lot area shall be calculated along the perimeter of the lot,
            including all parking spaces, access ways, and landscaped islands within the
            perimeter and at the corners of the lot, as demonstrated in Figure 9-23-1
            below. A chart with the calculations shall be included on the site plan. Total
            parking lot area shall not include building footprints or applicable loading and
            service areas, but shall include customer service drive-up areas and access
            ways used jointly by those utilizing the parking lot and service traffic.
         2. Landscaping areas within the parking lot area shall be calculated exclusive of
            impervious paving and curbing, but shall include the area of required outdoor
            amenities located within the parking lot perimeter (if any).
         3. For purposes of compliance with this section, parking area landscaping shall
            be calculated independently from overall site area landscaping, but shall also
            count towards the required percentage of overall site area landscaping.



FIGURE 9-23-1




C. Location: Islands shall be located in the following priority: Location and Design:
   1. To define major drives and accessways;
2.  To delineate ends of parking rows;
3.  At aisle intersections; and
4.  Within parking rows.
1.  Location: Parking lot landscaping shall be provided:
    a. As a landscaped island at the end of parking rows;
    b. Between rows of head-to-head parking stalls;
    c. As landscaped islands within rows of parking stalls;
    d. At aisle intersections; and
    e. Along major drives and access ways.
2. Design:
    a. The design of the planting plan layout for the parking area shall:
        (1) Address expected foot traffic patterns;
        (2) Mitigate expected pedestrian safety concerns;
        (3) Provide necessary visibility for the safety of pedestrians and vehicles;
        (4) Include water-wise landscaping techniques, including but not limited to plant
             selection and low impact design elements;
        (5) Include at least one (1) tree for each three-hundred square feet (300 ft²) of
             total overall parking lot landscape area;
        (6) Not include turf; and
        (7) Address the expected snow removal and snow storage needs of the parking
             area.
    b. Landscaped islands within the parking lot area shall be at least five feet (5') wide
        and one hundred (100) square feet in area, and shall include the following:
             (1) A minimum of one tree shall be planted in each island;
             (2) Additional landscaping with shrubs, ground cover, or planting beds to
                 achieve a minimum of 50% coverage by plants at maturity (plants and
                 trees may be grouped); and
             (3) Drip irrigation adequate to meet tree and plant needs.
    c. No more than fifteen (15) parking stalls may be in a row between landscaping
        islands as shown in figure 9-23-2 below.
    d. Rows of adjacent parking shall be separated by landscaping of at least nine feet
        (9') in width as shown in figure 9-23-3 below. If wheel stops are included to
        prevent vehicles from overhanging the landscaping, this minimum width can be
        reduced down to five feet (5’).
    e. All parking area landscaping and landscaping adjacent to parking areas shall be
        bordered and separated from the parking area by minimum six inch (6") high
        back concrete curbing. Sections of curbing may be non-contiguous or eliminated
        in order to implement low impact development (LID) storm water features within
        the development. Where high back curbing is eliminated as part of a LID design,
        the installation of wheel stops will be required between the parking stall and
           adjacent landscaping to prevent the intrusion of automobiles into the
           landscaped areas.

FIGURE 9-23-2
Parking Area Landscaping Islands




FIGURE 9-23-3
Parking Row Dividing Landscaping




9-23-110: LAND USE BUFFERS:
Except for developments exempted under section 9-23-020 of this title, land Land use
buffers shall be provided along the side and rear property lines of commercial, multifamily,
and industrial properties to enhance community appearance and welfare by protecting
residents and visitors from the traffic, noise, glare, trash, activity, vibration, odor, visual
disorder and other adverse or harmful effects typically associated with such land uses.
A. Land Use Buffer Requirements: The amount of landscaping and type of fencing
   required for a land use buffer shall be as follows:
   1. A landscape buffer of twenty feet (20') shall be provided between all commercial
      and office uses when located adjacent to a residential zone and when a multi-family
      use is located adjacent to a single-family zone.
   2. A landscape buffer of thirty feet (30') shall be provided between industrial uses and
      residential uses or zones.
   3. Trees within the buffer area described in 9-23-110(A)(1) and (2) above shall be
      planted at one tree per four hundred (400) square feet of buffer area.
      a. Trees may be grouped.
      b. At least one buffer tree shall be planted between commercial, office, multi-family
           and industrial uses and each single-family residential lot. Trees shall be arranged
           to provide linear coverage between commercial, office and industrial uses and
           adjacent residential units.
   4. The rest of the buffer area shall consist of ground covers, shrubs and planting beds,
      wherein a maximum of seventy five percent (75%) of the buffer area may be planted
      with ground covers.
   5. A six foot (6') tall, solid, sight obscuring fence constructed of masonry, precast
      concrete, or lightweight precast fiber reinforced concrete shall be used between
      abutting commercial, industrial, or office land uses and residential zones. Except for
      required footings or foundations, the fence shall extend from the adjacent finish
      grade of the property upward to the required height. Any gaps between the bottom
      of the fence panel and the adjacent finish grade of the property may not exceed
      four inches (4"). Such gaps are not counted towards the total required height of the
      fence. The height of fences shall be reduced in clear view triangle areas or where
      they may impact sight visibility with a driveway as specified in section 9-27-080.
      Non-residential, mixed use, and multiple-family developments shall install a six feet
      (6’) tall, solid, sight obscuring fence along the property perimeter where adjacent to
      single-family or two-family residential zoning or development.
      a. The fence shall be constructed of masonry, precast concrete, or lightweight
           precast fiber reinforced concrete.

       b. The fence shall extend from the adjacent finish grade of the property upward to
          the required height, excluding required footings and foundations. Any gaps
          between the bottom of the fence panel and the adjacent finish grade of the
          property may not exceed four inches (4"). Such gaps are not counted towards
          the total required minimum height of the fence.

       c. The height of fences shall be reduced in clear view triangle areas or where they
          may impact sight visibility with a driveway as specified in section 9-27-080.
B. Exemptions: No land use buffer shall be required between land uses located in the
   same zone.

C. Reductions:
   1. The zoning administrator or designee may reduce land use buffer requirements
      based on the character of specific uses, building orientations, topographic features,
      or other unique characteristics of adjoining uses. A reduced buffer shall consist of a
      minimum ten foot (10') wide landscape buffer and an eight foot (8') tall, solid, sight
      obscuring fence in compliance with all other specifications of 9-23-110(A)(5). In
      approving reductions under this section the zoning administrator shall not reduce
      the tree and plant requirements of subsections 9-23-110 (A)(3) and (4).
   2. The planning commission may approve additional deviations to landscape buffer
      requirements if all of the following criteria are met:
      a. Physical site features preclude strict compliance. In this case an alternative
          landscaping scheme shall be provided which meets or exceeds the intent of the
          code;
      b. Additional landscaping equal to the amount of the reduction from the buffer size
          requirements of 9-23-110(A)(1) and (2) shall be added to the overall site to
          compensate for any approved reduction in buffer widths, landscaping equal to
          or exceeding the proportional standards of 9-23-110(A)(3) and (4) shall be
          required in both the reduced buffer area and the area(s) of the overall site
          where the compensatory landscaping is provided;
      c. An eight foot (8') tall, solid, sight obscuring fence is provided in compliance with
          all other specifications of 9-23-110(A)(5); and
      d. In no case shall a landscape buffer be less than five feet (5') in width.

D. Relationship To Other Requirements: When the requirements of a land use buffer
   exceed those of other requirements along a property line, the land use buffer
   requirements shall apply.

E. Existing Buffer Vegetation And Trees: Retention of existing shrubs, trees, plants and
   groundcovers plant material is strongly encouraged in within land use buffers shall
   comply with the provisions of section 9-23-070. Existing trees and vegetative ground
   covers should be retained where possible by avoiding scrapingScraping, grading,
   sodding and other construction activity within the land use buffer area shall be avoided.
   Where land use buffer development standards call for additional trees or shrubs to be
   installed in an existing landscaped area land use buffer, it should be done in a manner
   which precautions shall be taken, to minimize minimizes disturbance to existing trees
   and shrubs plants. In determining whether existing trees and vegetation qualify as
   satisfying a land use buffer standards, the planning commission shall consider all of
   the following factors:
   1. The type and quality of the vegetation being preserved;
   2. The effectiveness of the visual screening that will be provided;
   3. The extent to which the proposed buffer makes use of existing topography and
      vegetation; and
   4. The ability and availability to relocate existing, healthy, non-invasive, drought
      tolerant vegetation that would otherwise be removed from the site to a land use
      buffer.

F. Compatibility Of Plantings: Supplemental buffer plantings shall be compatible with any
   existing vegetation within the buffer area.
G. Development Within Land Use Buffers: Land use buffers may contain nonmotorized
   trails. In no event shall structures or uses, such as, but not limited to, play fields,
   stables, swimming pools, golf courses, tennis courts, parking lots and vehicular use
   areas, generators, trash receptacle enclosures, equipment storage and other open
   storage, or buildings be permitted within land use buffers.



9-23-120: SITE FEATURE BUFFERING AND SCREENING:
Except for developments exempted under section 9-23-020 of this title, site Site features,
such as, but not limited to, the following, shall be effectively screened from the view of as
seen from adjacent roadways and adjacent sites by berms, fences, walls and/or plant
material in compliance with the site design requirements of section 9-22-050 and the
following landscape standards:

A. Trash Receptacle Enclosures: Trash receptacle enclosures shall be screened from view
   by walls or fences in residential developments and by masonry walls in all types of
   developments. The fence or wall shall:
   1. Be a minimum of six feet (6') in height;
   2. Provide complete visual screening of the receptacle; and
   3. Be compatible in material and color with the main building on the lot or parcel
   1. Evergreen shrubs shall be utilized and shall be provided at a minimum rate of one
      (1) shrub for each five lineal feet (5’) of enclosure as measured around the
      perimeter, excluding gates.
   2. Evergreen shrubs utilized for screening the enclosure shall be a minimum height of
      eighteen inches (18") at the time of planting, and of a species capable of growing to
      a height equal to or greater than the height of the enclosure.

B. Service And Loading Areas: Service and loading areas shall be screened by perimeter
   plantings or, when required, by land use buffers. In order to better screen these areas,
   a concentration of required plantings may be required adjacent to these features.
   1. Shrubs used for the purpose of screening service and loading areas, shall include
       evergreen shrubs, either exclusively or mixed.
   2. All shrubs shall be minimum height of eighteen inches (18") at the time of planting,
       and of a species capable of growing to a height of at least four feet (4’).
C. Ground Mounted Utility Boxes, Meters And Mechanical Equipment: Ground mounted
   utility boxes, meters, and mechanical equipment shall be screened from off site view by
   landscaping or architectural elements compatible in material and color with the primary
   structure. Screening requirements may be waived in rear and rear side yard locations
   when adjacent to other service or mechanical areas, or when not subject to primary
   views from off site. This requirement shall not apply in agricultural and single-family
   residential development.
   1. Evergreen shrubs shall be used for the purpose of screening ground mounted
        mechanical equipment, utility meters, other utility equipment and boxes, and
        similar areas or appurtenances.
   2. Except as provided for in 9-23-120(C)(5) below, evergreen shrubs shall be planted no
        further than five feet (5’) from the appurtenance they are screening.
        a. Minimum clearances between equipment and plantings established by utility
            companies or manufacturers shall be adhered to. Where minimum clearances
            require screening to be placed further than five feet (5’) from the appurtenance
            additional plantings will be required to achieve the same or greater ratio of
            screening coverage that would have been achieved with plants being placed
            within feet (5’).
   3. The evergreen shrubs shall be a minimum height of eighteen inches (18") at the
        time of planting, and of a species capable of growing to a height equal to or greater
        than the height of the equipment, enclosure, or appurtenance they are screening.
   4. A minimum of four (4) evergreen shrubs shall be required for each box or
        appurtenance located within the landscape and plantings shall be planted with
        additional evergreen shrubs so that each side of the box otherwise visible to a street
        or neighboring properties is screened.

D. Roof Mounted Mechanical Equipment: All roof mounted mechanical equipment shall be
   concealed on all sides by elements that are an integral part of the building design and
   which are equal to or greater in height than the mechanical equipment.



9-23-130: TREE AND LANDSCAPE MATERIAL STANDARDS:
Minimum required tree and landscape material standards shall be as follows:
A. General: Trees and plants used in landscape design pursuant to this chapter shall, to
   the greatest extent possible, be:
   1. Water-wise and droughtDrought tolerant;
   2. Appropriate for the setting in which they are to be planted Planted in areas where
       the recommended soil nutrients, water, and sun exposure are available;
   3. Have noninvasive growth habits Noninvasive; and
   4. Have low Low maintenance characteristics and provide high quality appearance;
      and.
   5. Be commercially available.

B. Plant Quality: PlantsAll plants and trees installed pursuant to this chapter shall conform
   to or exceed the plant quality standards of the most recent edition of "American
   Standard For Nursery Stock, ANSI Z60.1", published by the American Nursery And
   Landscape Association.

C. Artificial PlantsTurf: Artificial turf installed over a permeable base surface may be used
   in lieu of actual turf. Artificial turf must be regularly maintained according to
   manufacturer specifications and shall be replaced once the manufacture’s
   recommended lifespan or functional lifespan has been reached, whichever comes first.
   No other artificial plants or vegetation shall be used to meet any standards of this
   chapter.

D. Tree Diameter And and Height:
   1. For the purpose of this subsection D, "caliper" means a trunk diameter
       measurement for nursery grown trees taken six inches (6") above the ground up to
       and including four inch (4") caliper size. If the caliper at six inches (6") above the
       ground exceeds four inches (4"), the caliper shall be measured at twelve inches (12")
       above the ground.
   21. Shade Decidious trees planted to satisfy the standards of this chapter shall have a
       minimum caliper of two inches (2").
   3. Ornamental trees planted to satisfy the standards of this chapter shall have a
       minimum height of six feet (6') or a minimum caliper of one and one half inches (1-
       1/2 “). Ornamental trees shall be a species that has flowers, colored foliage, or a
       unique growth habit or other distinguishing characteristic that adds variety to the
       overall landscape plan.
   42. Evergreen trees planted to satisfy the standards of this chapter shall have a
       minimum height of six feet (6').

E. Deciduous And Evergreen Shrubs: Shrubs required as part of a land use buffer or
   adjacent to parking lots in perimeter plantings shall have a minimum height of eighteen
   inches (18") at the time of planting. Shrubs in other areas may be of a size determined
   by the applicant unless otherwise indicated by this chapter.
   1. Shrubs utilized in a non-residential, mixed use, or multiple-family landscape plan
       shall be from nursery stock, a minimum size of three (3) gallons, or container class
       #3, at the time of planting.
   2. Shrubs required as part of a land use buffer or as perimeter plantings adjacent to
       parking where fronting a street, shall have a minimum height of eighteen inches
       (18") at the time of planting.
   3. Along the exterior of parking lots where potential light trespass from vehicular
      headlights would be directed towards adjoining residential properties or streets,
      evergreen shrubs shall be planted in a continuous row or hedge of sufficient height
      to block such trespass.

F. Ground Treatment: The ground area within required landscape areas shall receive
   landscape treatment and present a finished appearance and reasonably complete
   coverage upon planting. Areas not planted with trees, shrubs, or bedding plants shall
   be sodded, except as set forth for in this subsection.
   1. Lawn areas in commercial and industrial zones shall be sodded with a species
       suitable as permanent lawns in the city. Other lawn areas may be seeded and shall
       be maintained until coverage is well established The ground area within landscape
       areas shall present a finished appearance with a balanced distribution of plantings
       across each planting area.
   2. Ground cover may be planted in lieu of sod. Ground cover shall be of a size and
       spacing to provide a minimum of fifty percent (50%) coverage after the first full
       growing season and complete coverage at maturity. Edging shall be provided for all
       ground cover.
   32. Bark or rock mMulch shall be installed and maintained at a minimum depth of three
       inches (3") on all planted areas except where ground cover plants are fully
       established and provide for complete coverage of the area. Mulch may be approved
       as a permanent ground treatment in landscape designs where ground cover or sod
       turf is impractical. Rock mulch with an accompanying weed barrier may be used in a
       limited way when appropriate to a design concept and as a ground treatment in
       areas where drainage is a problem; provided, that the use of rock adjacent to
       buildings shall be minimized.
   3. Rock mulch with an accompanying weed barrier may be used in a limited way as a
       ground treatment in areas where typical water drainage from the site would create
       conditions unsuitable for plant survival, or adjacent to buildings where plantings
       could create a health, safety, or operational hazard near entrances. The use of this
       type of treatment adjacent to non-residential and mixed-use buildings may not
       exceed ten percent (10%) of the landscape planting area located within ten feet (10’)
       of the building.
   4. Landscape edging shall be used to separate planting beds from turf and other areas
       predominantly planted with groundcovers, and shall also be provided at the
       transition between all mulched areas, ground covers, and turf.
….
9-23-140: INSTALLATION, INSPECTIONIRRIGATION, MAINTENANCE AND
REPLACEMENT:
Any required Required landscaping shall be installed, maintained, irrigated and replaced in
accordance with the following standards:

A. Installation: All landscaping and buffering shall be installed according to sound nursery
   practices in a manner designed to encourage vigorous growth.

B. Irrigation: Landscape areas shall be irrigated as necessary to maintain required plant
   materials in good and healthy condition, while at the same time avoiding water waste
   through inefficient irrigation.

C. Maintenance: Landowners and their successors in interest shall be jointly and severally
   responsible for all of the following:
   1. Regular maintenance of all landscape areas, including park strips, in good condition
      and in a way that presents a healthy, neat and orderly appearance. All landscaping
      shall be maintained free from disease, pests, weeds and litter. This maintenance
      shall include weeding, watering, fertilizing, pruning, mowing, edging, mulching or
      other maintenance, in accordance with acceptable horticultural practices.
   2. The repair or replacement of landscape structures (e.g., walls, fences) to a
      structurally sound condition and original appearance.
   3. Perpetual maintenance to prohibit the reestablishment of undesirable and harmful
      species within landscape and preservation areas.
   4. Regular maintenance, repair or replacement of any plant material, screening or
      buffering required by this chapter in conjunction with approved plans. Any
      landscaping required to be planted or preserved by this chapter shall be replaced
      with the largest available equivalent vegetation. The city may require that any dead
      trees, shrubs and plants be replaced within the current or next planting season.

B. Designers and installers for all commercial, industrial, institutional, civic, mixed use, and
   multiple-family residential sites shall meet all applicable state and local license,
   insurance, and bonding requirements and be able to show proof of such upon request.
   1. Upon completion of the landscape installation, the landscape architect or landscape
      designer responsible for creating and stamping the plans shall inspect the
      installation and provide a signed certificate of substantial completion to the
      property owner or applicant and to the city.
   2. After receiving the certificate of substantial completion from the landscape architect
      or landscape designer, the property owner or applicant shall schedule a landscape
      inspection with the Community Development Department for verification of
      ordinance compliance. If an improvement completion assurance has been posted,
      a certificate from the landscape architect or designer for the portion(s) installed
       must accompany each request for a partial refund of the improvement completion
       assurance.

C. Maintenance and Replacement:
   1. Property owners shall be responsible for the regular maintenance of all landscape
      areas of their property, including adjacent park strips, in a way that presents a
      healthy, neat and orderly appearance. All landscaping shall be maintained free from
      disease, pests, weeds and litter. This maintenance shall include but is not limited to
      weeding, watering, fertilizing, pruning, mowing, edging, mulching, and etcetera, in
      accordance with generally accepted horticultural best practices.
   2. Property owners shall be responsible for maintenance, repair or replacement of
      landscape structures (e.g., walls, fences) in a structurally sound condition and in a
      neat appearance without substantial deterioration.
   3. Property owners shall actively prevent the establishment of undesirable and
      harmful plant and tree species within landscape and preservation areas through
      ongoing maintenance, including weeding, to prevent germination, growth and
      establishment of such plant and tree species, and prompt removal and disposal of
      such species once discovered.
   4. Property owners shall promptly replace any tree or plant material required by this
      chapter or shown on approved plans that is diseased, dead or dying and unable to
      be restored to health. Replacement trees shall have a minimum caliper of two
      inches (2”). Any perennial landscaping required to be planted or preserved by this
      chapter that dies or is otherwise removed shall be replaced with vegetation which
      complies with the minimum size and other characteristics required at the time of
      initial installation, or larger specimens as available.
   …



9-23-160: TEMPORARY SUSPENSION OF LANDSCAPING INSTALLATION:
The physical installation of landscaping live plant material required by this chapter shall not
occur during the winter months between October 1st and the following March 31st, or
during a day in which the outdoor temperature exceeds ninety-nine degrees (99°) including
the following five (5) calendar days, and may be temporarily suspended, in individual cases,
by the zoning administrator during other periods of adverse weather conditions, or when
plants and landscape materials are not available. If the landscape standards of this chapter
are suspended, the zoning administrator shall enter into an agreement with the landowner
that will allow issuance of a temporary certificate of occupancy.



9-23-170: TABLES:
TABLE 9-23-1
PERIMETER PLANTINGS ALONG STREET FRONTAGES
(Not Including Park Strips)
 Minimum              Freeway             Arterial             Collector           Local
 Ratios Per 100
 Linear Feet
 Adjacent to          2 shade             2 shade              2 shade             2 shade
 building or open     deciduous trees     deciduous trees      deciduous trees     deciduous trees
 area                                     1 ornamental         1 ornamental
                                          evergreen tree       evergreen tree
                                          16 shrubs            12 shrubs
                                          100 sq. ft. of       75 sq. ft. of
                                          planting beds1       planting beds1
 Adjacent to          As above plus:      As above plus:       As above plus:      As above plus:
 parking lot2         3' evergreen        3' evergreen         3' evergreen        3' evergreen
                      shrubs or a         shrubs or a          shrubs or a         shrubs or a
                      combination of      combination of       combination of      combination of
                      evergreen           evergreen            evergreen           evergreen
                      shrubs and a        shrubs and a         shrubs and a        shrubs and a
                      berm for            berm for             berm for            berm for a
                      continuous          continuous           continuous          minimum 75%
                      screening of the    screening of the     screening of the    screening of the
                      parking area        parking area 1       parking area 1      parking area 1
 Adjacent to          AsTrees as          AsTrees as           AsTrees as          AsTrees as
 service areas        above plus:         above plus:          above plus:         above plus:
 (loading docks,      Evergreen trees,    Evergreen trees,     Evergreen trees,    Evergreen trees,
 outside storage,     evergreen           evergreen            evergreen           evergreen
 and trash            shrubs, and/or      shrubs, and/or       shrubs, and/or      shrubs s, and/or
 compactors)32        berm providing      berm providing       berm providing      berm providing
                      for 100%            for 75%              for 75%             for 50%
                      screening of the    screening of the     screening of the    screening of the
                      service area2       service area2        service area2       service area2

Notes:
   1. Decorative planting bed with flowers, other color, small shrubs, and nonturf ground
       cover.
   21. A 3 foot high decorative wall, compatible with the design of the main building, may be
       used in lieu of berms or shrubs for parking lot screening. Screening shall be designed to
       be between three feet (3’) and four feet (4’) in height after five (5) years of normal growth,
       and shall be maintained so as to not exceed four feet (4’) in height, or the height
       limitations found in section 9-27-080 as applicable. A three feet (3’) tall decorative wall or
       fence, compatible with the architectural design and materials of the main building or site
       fencing, may be used in lieu of shrubs for parking lot screening.
   32. Service area screening Screening shall be designed to meet the above criteria after five (5)
       years of normal growth.

TABLE 9-23-2
PERIMETER PLANTINGS ALONG INTERIOR LOT LINES1,2

    Minimum                            Side                                     Rear
  Ratios Per 100
   Linear Feet
 Adjacent to          1 shade deciduous tree                   1 shade deciduous tree
 building1            5 shrubs                                 5 shrubs
 Adjacent to          1 shade deciduous tree                   1 shade deciduous tree
 parking lot2         9 shrubs                                 9 shrubs
 Adjacent to          As above, plus: 1 Evergreen trees        As above, plus: 1 Evergreen trees
 service area3        and 16 evergreen shrubs that at          and 16 evergreen shrubs that at
                      maturity will screen from view 50%       maturity will screen from view 50%
                      of the service area                      of the service area


Notes:
   1. Perimeter plantings may be reduced or deleted when adjacent to a service area,
       nonpublic area, or area with obscured view. Where a building wall is located between ten
       (10) and five (5) feet from the property line, columnar species of trees shall be utilized
       and the required tree count shall be double. Where a building wall is located closer than
       five feet (5’) from the property line, but greater than two feet (2’), in addition to the
       required shrubs, four (4) shrubs with columnar or vertical growth characteristics that will
       reach at least four feet (4’) in height shall be substituted for each required tree. Where a
       building wall is located two feet (2’) or closer to a property line, trees and shrubs shall not
       be required and the perimeter planting area shall include ground cover plantings or rock
       mulch and comply with the requirements of section 9-23-130(F).
   2. Perimeter plantings not required when buildable area abuts a lot line. Where a perimeter
       planting area adjacent to a parking lot is permitted to be less than ten feet (10’) in width,
       the number of required trees may be reduced by up to fifty percent (50%) to account for
       the adjacent tree canopy of the adjoining property. The required shrub count shall
       remain the same.
   3. Evergreen shrubs shall be of a species or variety that will grow to a minimum height of
       four feet (4’) at maturity. The zoning administrator may permit a reduction in the number
       of evergreen shrubs upon demonstration that the evergreen shrubs within the landscape
       design will provide fifty percent (50%) screening of the service area within five (5) years of
       normal growth.
9-25-080: PARKING AREA DESIGN AND CONSTRUCTION:
…
H. Landscaping: Parking areas shall be designed to incorporate landscaping
   landscaped as provided specified in chapter 23 of this title. In addition, the
   design of parking area landscaping shall adhere to each of the following:
   1. Landscaping Islands: Landscaping islands shall be provided at each end of
      parking rows.
   2. Parking Row Dividing Landscaping:
      a. Rows of adjacent parking shall be separated by landscaping of at least
         five feet (5') in width or nine feet (9') in width if vehicles are allowed to
         overhang the landscaping. Where the planning commission finds that it is
         not feasible for rows of parking to be separated by landscaping, parking
         areas shall be designed to include tree diamonds. In order to determine
         this feasibility, the planning commission must find that:
         (1) The site requires a deviation from strict compliance to reduce
             parking; or
         (2) The site would requires a deviation from strict compliance to reduce
             parking in order to implement such landscaping; and
         (3) Constraints of the site would necessitate the elimination of required
             parking spaces or reduction of site boundary landscaping buffers in
             order to facilitate such landscaping.




      b. When tree diamonds are proposed, they shall be spaced no more than
      three (3) parking spaces apart and the area dedicated to the tree diamond
      shall be at least five by five feet (5 x 5') when square or at least five feet (5') in
      diameter when round or oval.
        Tree Diamonds
   3. Spacing Between Landscaping Islands: The maximum number of parking
      spaces in a row without separation by a landscaping island shall be fifteen
      (15).




Parking Area Landscaping Islands
   4. Amount Of Landscaping: Landscaping within parking areas shall be provided
      in a proportion determined in subsection 9-23-100A of this title. Landscaping
      eligible for consideration as parking area landscaping shall be as
      demonstrated in the diagram below. Parking area landscaping shall be
      calculated independently from site area landscaping, but may also count
      toward site area landscaping.
FIGURE 9-25-2
PARKING AREA LANDSCAPING
    5. Borders And Separation: All parking area landscaping and landscaping
       adjacent to parking areas shall be bordered and separated from the parking
       area by six inch (6") high back concrete curbing. Curbing may be reduced or
       eliminated if the entire site is being developed as a low impact development
       (LID) for storm drainage purposes and wheel stops are installed in all parking
       stalls to prevent vehicle intrusion into landscaped areas.
…



9-27-230: OUTDOOR STORAGE AND DISPLAY:
A. Permitted; Screening: All outdoor storage shall be in conjunction with and
   subordinate to a legally established business and shall be allowed only after
   approval of a conditional use permit by the planning commission. The following
   screening regulations shall apply to open storage areas:
   1. AAn opaque fence masonry wall or solid metal fencing shall be required to
      screen the view of all open storage areas from public streets.
      a. For screening views from public and private streets the fence shall be
         constructed of masonry, metal, or the same materials as the adjacent building.
      b. For screening views from neighboring properties along the side and rear
         property lines, inclusive of a gate, the fencing may be constructed of the same
         materials listed in subsection A(1)(a) of this section or chain-link with privacy
         slats.
   2. A chainlink fence with slats or other opaque fence or wall n shall be required
      along side and rear property lines to screen areas of open storage up to and
      including any gate. Outdoor storage areas shall not be located closer than
      twenty feet (20’) to a residential use or zone.
   3. Fences used to screen open storage shall be not less than six ten feet (610')
      high. Fences greater than six feet (6') high may be unless a lower height is
      approved by the planning commission as part of the conditional use permit.
      upon a In approving reduced fence height the planning commission may not
      approve a fence lower than six feet (6’) in height and must find finding that
      increased the reduced height for screening is necessary to will not create
      additional reduce impacts to surrounding properties.
   4. Materials within twenty feet (20') of the fence Materials may not be stored or
      stacked higher than the fence.
   5. The planning commission may condition or require that specific materials,
      colors, or design elements to be used in the construction and installation of
      the screening fence or wall, other than those proposed, upon finding that the
      specific material, color, or design element will better mitigate existing or
      potential impacts to surrounding properties.

B. Permanent Outdoor Display Areas: All outdoor display areas shall be in
   conjunction with and subordinate to a legally established commercial business
   in commercial zones. The in accordance with the following regulations shall
   apply to permanent outdoor display areas:
   1. New site plans must depict any All proposed outdoor display areas must be
       approved as part of a new or amended site plans pursuant to section 9-5-090
       of this title. Display Outdoor display areas may not be counted in the
       landscaping as or be part of the landscaped area required by chapter 23 of
       this title.
   2. Businesses desiring outdoor display areas in previously approved and
       constructed commercial sites shall have areas of outdoor display approved
       by the zoning administrator by means of a site plan amendment pursuant to
       section 9-5-090 of this title and in accordance with the following regulations:.
      a. The outdoor display area shall be directly related to a business occupying
         a permanent structure on the subject site.
      b. Merchandise displays shall not block sidewalks, walkways, building
         entrances or drive aisles and clear view areas.
      c. Businesses shall only display merchandise directly in front of their
         business area.
      The outdoor display area shall be directly related to a business occupying a
      permanent structure on the site.
   3. Displays and merchandise shall not block sidewalks, walkways, building
      entrances, drive aisles, or clear view areas.
   4. The location of outdoor displays shall directly correlate with the physical
      location of the business on the site, such as directly in front of their business
      area, and the physical functionality of the outdoor display area may not
      create impacts to other businesses on the site.


17-1-040: DEFINITIONS:
…
PARK STRIP: The area located between a street right of way line and the edge of asphalt or
curb, but not including driveways, sidewalks, or trails. See definition of park strip found in
section 9-3-040 of this code.

TREE, STREET TREE: An approved tree placed either within or adjacent to the City's public
right-of-way. Street trees are considered a public improvement. See definition of street tree
found in section 9-3-040 of this code.
…



17-4-075: IMPROVEMENT COMPLETION ASSURANCES:
A. An applicant may provide the city with an improvement completion assurance
   as defined below in Utah Code Ann. §10-9a-103 in an amount equal to one
   hundred ten percent (110100%) of the estimated completion costs in lieu of an
   obligation required by this title. For purposes of this and other sections of this
   title, an improvement completion assurance is defined as codified in Utah Code
   Ann. §10-9a-103 except that the acceptable Acceptable forms of an
   improvement completion assurance limited by this code are:
   1. A business check from a FDIC insured financial institution within 50 miles of
        Draper City hall with funds immediately available to the city;
   2. Cash;
   3. A cash bond;
   4. A cashier's check from a FDIC insured financial institution with offices within
      50 miles of Draper City Hall with and funds immediately available to the city
      upon default;
   5. An irrevocable letter of credit from a FDIC insured financial institution with
      offices within 50 miles of Draper City Hall with and funds immediately
      available to the city upon default; or
   6. Other method of security as agreed upon by applicant, the City Engineer, and
      the City Attorney.

B. Each person who provides an improvement completion assurance must also
   enter into an improvement completion assurance agreement with the city. An
   improvement completion assurance agreement may specify additional details
   for the completion of work contemplated by the agreement.

C. Procedures for processing completion assurance bonds, including improvement
   completion assurances for public landscaping or infrastructure are detailed
   below:
   1. The developer shall be required to provide to the city a bid detailing the cost to
      install public landscaping improvement and infrastructure improvements included
      in the approved plans that have not been installed and accepted by the city.
      Submitted bids must be on company letterhead. For landscaping the bid must come
      from a licensed and insured landscape company or landscape contractor, or for
      other infrastructure improvements, a licensed and insured contractor that can
      complete the work.
   2. Bid amounts for trees shall not be valued at less than three hundred dollars
      ($300.00) per tree.
   3. Funds from an improvement completion assurance will be held by the Draper City
      Community Development Department.
   4. After the improvements detailed in the bid are installed, the developer may request
      a refund of those portions of the improvement completion assurance that correlate
      with the installed improvements per the bid.
   5. Requests for a release of funds held as an improvement completion assurance shall
      be processed as per this code and department policies and shall not be released
      until the installation is acceptable to the city and in accordance with approved plans.



17-5-060: LANDSCAPING AND TREES:
A. Landscaping: A landscaping plan Landscaping and irrigation plans in compliance
with Chapter 9-23 of this code shall be required for all residential subdivisions
within the City detailing the landscaping in of all public areas and parkstrips strips
in the development and any other area required to be landscaped as a condition of
development approval. In addition, whenever the Planning Commission determines
there are areas within developments which warrant screening, buffering, or are of
sufficient size or visibility to warrant special treatment, the developer may be
required to provide a landscaping plan for such areas for review and approval by
the City. All landscaping plans shall indicate how maintenance of the landscaped
areas will be performed and by whom. All irrigation systems will conform to Draper
City standards and specifications. The plants or other landscaping materials that
best serve the intended functions shall be elected. Landscaping materials shall be
appropriate for the local environment, soil conditions, and availability of water.
When required by the Zoning Administrator or Planning Commission due to the
nature or size of the proposed landscaping, developers may be required to have
the landscaping plans prepared and stamped by a registered landscape architect.

A landscaping plan for all park strips is required to be submitted with the final plat
application for all subdivisions. This plan shall indicate the plan for ground cover
within park strips, and shall also include details on the irrigation system required to
support the designated ground cover and required street trees. Drip or similar
deep watering systems shall be indicated where street trees are present within the
landscaping plan.

B. Street Trees:
   1. Street Trees Required: All developers of residential subdivisions in Draper City shall
      provide a street trees plan in accordance with section 9-23-080 of this code as part
      of subdivision application and shall provide a copy of the street tree plan approved
      with the subdivision to the purchaser of each lot in the subdivision as part of the
      landscaping plan in order to reduce heat, dust, glare and the need for cooling and
      heating; to help clean and oxygenate the air; to reduce road noise; to prevent
      erosion and promote soil health; to mask undesirable views and enhance pleasing
      views; to develop continuity among developments; and to generally enhance the
      appearance of the City streets and promote a sense of civic pride and vitality. A
      street tree plan, which is in accordance with Draper City standards and the Draper
      City tree guide, shall be submitted with the final plat application for all subdivisions.
      The subdivider is responsible for ensuring the installation of the required number,
      species, and caliper of street trees, per the approved street tree plan, prior to the
      issuance of a certificate of occupancy for any dwelling.
      a. The following note shall be included on each subdivision plat where street tree
          installation is required:
           Notice to property owners: Individual property owners are required to plant and
          maintain street trees adjacent to or on their property in compliance with the
          approved street tree plan for the subdivision on file in the Community Development
          office of Draper City.
2. Improvement Completion Assurance: An improvement completion assurance and
   accompanying agreement as defined by DCMC 17-4-070 and DCMC 17-4-075 is
   required for street tree installation with all subdivision. The subdivider shall post an
   improvement completion assurance with the City prior to recording any subdivision
   or phase of each subdivision. The amount shall be set by the City and shall be
   sufficient to cover the cost of providing trees for the individual lot, but shall not be
   less than three hundred dollars ($300.00) per required tree. Funds from an
   improvement completion assurance will be held by the Draper City Community
   Development Department, and shall not be released until a site inspection has
   verified the proper tree installation has occurred, in accordance with the procedure
   outlined below:


   Total street tree and park strip landscaping amounts shall be calculated by
   multiplying the number of trees shown on the approved street tree and landscaping
   plan by three hundred dollars ($300.00), and additionally adding in an estimated
   landscaping and irrigation systems cost. This amount shall be posted with each
   subdivision or phase of a subdivision prior to the recording of any final or minor
   plat. During the construction and occupancy of homes within a subdivision,
   subdivider would have two (2) annual opportunities to reduce or refund a portion of
   the improvement completion assurance. These reductions shall be linked to the
   installation of the street trees as described on the street tree planting plan.


   Annual opportunities for reduction shall occur once in the spring, between April 1
   and May 31, and again in the fall after September 15 but prior to November 30.
   These dates are intended to avoid the planting of street trees during the hottest
   times of the year for a higher establishment success rate. Street trees selected for
   use within subdivision park strips shall meet the same diversity standards for trees
   found in subsection 9-23-050(H) of this code.


3. Street Tree Installation: All residential subdivisions shall have street trees and
   irrigation systems installed within the park strip between the sidewalk and curb. In
   areas where there is no sidewalk or no park strip between the sidewalk and curb,
   street trees shall be installed within fifteen feet (15') of the right-of-way. Street trees
   shall be installed in accordance with the standards and specifications developed by
   the City Tree Commission and adopted by the City Council. Irrigation systems shall
   be professionally installed by a licensed contractor, and shall include an automatic
   watering system appropriate to the approved tree and park strip planting plan. The
   developer shall prepare a street tree plan for each approved residential subdivision
   which shall be reviewed by the Draper City Community Development Department
       and forwarded to the Draper City Zoning Administrator or Planning Commission. A
       diversity of species is encouraged to minimize the danger of losing an entire
       monospecific planting to blight, insects or some other species specific condition.
       After installation by the subdivider, individual homeowners are responsible for the
       irrigation and maintenance of required park strip street trees. The developer or
       property owner shall install street trees including necessary irrigation, as detailed on
       approved plans, along the street frontage that abuts the property. Installation may
       not occur during the winter months of October through March, and shall be
       completed no later than May 31st of the calendar year following the commencement
       of the use or the first issuance of an occupancy certificate for the property. After
       installation, individual property owners shall irrigate and maintain street trees
       fronting their property in accordance with sections 9-23-080 and 9-23-140 of this
       code. Violations of this section shall be enforced per section 17-1-100.

C. Improvement Completion: The subdivision developer shall provide an improvement
   completion assurance as per section 17-4-075 of this title for all public landscaping
   improvements and infrastructure improvements within the subdivision, or install said
   improvements prior to commencement of any other development activity on the
   property and recording the of the plat. Subdivisions which are required to contain other
   landscaping improvements or amenities, with the exception of street trees, shall enter
   into a written agreement with the city regarding the completion of the other
   landscaping and amenities including provisions for the posting of improvement
   completion assurances as necessary, before the plat may be recorded.
