                                    Development Review Committee
                                        1020 East Pioneer Road
                                          Draper, UT 84020
                                                  April 12, 2023

To:               Draper City Planning Commission
                  Business Date: April 27, 2023

From:             Development Review Committee

Prepared By: Tevai Haunga, Planner I
             Planning Division
             Community Development Department
             801-576-6522, tevai.haunga@draperutah.gov

Re:      J Ellsworth – Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit Request
         Application No.: USE-005-2023
         Applicant:        Jared Ellsworth, applicant
         Project Location: 1048 E. 13590 S.
         Current Zoning: RA1 (Single Family Residential 40,000 ft2 minimum area)
         Acreage:          1.09 Acres (Approximately 47480 ft2)
         Request:          Request for approval of a Home Occupation in the RA1 zone for a
                           cottage business making arts and crafts to sell.



BACKGROUND AND SUMMARY
This application is a request for approval of a Home Occupation for approximately 1.09
acres located on the south side of 13590 S., at approximately 1408 E. 13590 S., (Exhibit C &
D). The property is currently zoned RA1. The applicant is requesting that a Home
Occupation Conditional Use Permit be approved for a cottage business. The applicant is
making various arts and crafts at home.

The property is part of the Potawatomi subdivision and the home was built in 1988.



ANALYSIS

General Plan and Zoning.




Jared Ellsworth Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit               App. # USE-005-2023
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit                   1
 Table 1                    General Plan and Zoning Designations                  Exhibit
 Existing Land Use          Residential Low/ Medium Density                       Exhibit E
 Current Zoning             RA1                                                   Exhibit F
 Proposed Use
 Adjacent Zoning
    East                    RA1
    West                    RA1
    North                   RA1
    South                   RA1

The Residential Low-Medium Density land use designation is characterized as follows:




According to Draper City Municipal Code (DCMC) Section 9-8-020 the purpose of the
purpose of the RA1 and RA2 zones is to “foster low density development with little impact
on its surroundings and municipal services; to generally preserve the character of the



Jared Ellsworth Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit                 App. # USE-005-2023
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit                   2
city' s semirural areas; and to promote and preserve conditions favorable to large lot
family life, including the keeping of limited numbers of animals and fowl. The predominant
use in these zones is intended to be detached single-family dwellings, protected from
encroachment by commercial and industrial uses.”

Home Occupation. The applicant is requesting a Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit
to make various arts and crafts at home with his children. These craft items include
wooden ornaments, paintings and jewelry. The applicant will be selling these items at
various craft fairs and other community events. The DCMC Section 9-34-040 outlines
development standards applicable to all home occupations. Those criteria, along with
information specific to the subject request, are as follows:

         A. Ownership: The home occupation shall be owned and operated by a person who
             resides in the dwelling where the home occupation is located. Such person shall
             be the primary provider of the labor, work, or service provided in the home
             occupation.

             -The applicant owns and lives in the home. He will be the primary provider of
             services.

         B. Business License: A business license for the home occupation shall be obtained
             from and continually maintained with the city pursuant to title 6, chapter 11 of
             this code.

             -The applicant must obtain this Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit before
             obtaining a business license.

         C. Employees: Members of the family of the owner who reside in the dwelling may
             be employed in the home occupation. Nonfamily or nonresident employees
             shall be limited to one person.

             -The other employees of this business reside in the home.

         D. Inspection: All facilities shall comply with fire, building, plumbing, electrical and
             all other city, county, state and federal codes. Inspections during reasonable
             hours by city officials may occur as necessary to assure compliance with
             regulations.

             -Facilities will comply with applicable codes

         E. Inventory: No stock in trade, inventory, or other merchandise to exceed two
             hundred fifty (250) square feet shall be kept on the premises. No outside storage
             is allowed.



Jared Ellsworth Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit                     App. # USE-005-2023
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit                   3
              -No inventory or outside storage is being used for this home business.

         F. Modification Of Structures Or Y ards: There shall be no visible evidence from the
              exterior of a dwelling that it is being used for any other purpose than that of a
              dwelling. No activities shall be carried on outside the dwelling in the yard for the
              benefit of or incidental to the home occupation. No front yard area shall be
              altered to provide parking required for a home occupation.

              -No yards or structures will be modified

         G. Nuisance: Tools, items, equipment, or activities conducted within the dwelling
              which is offensive or noxious by reason of the emission of odor, smoke, gas,
              vibration, magnetic interference, or noise shall be prohibited.

              -The home occupation will not present a nuisance.

         H. Secondary Use: The home occupation shall be clearly incidental and secondary
              to the primary use of the dwelling for residential purposes. The home
              occupation shall not disrupt the normal residential character of the
              neighborhood in which the residence is located. Not more than twenty five
              percent (25%) of the dwelling unit shall be used for the home occupation.

              -The home occupation is incidental and secondary to the building’s use as a
              residence. The space used will be less than 25% of the dwelling unit.

         I.   Signs: All signage in a residential area must comply with chapter 26, "Signs", of
              this title.

              -There are no signs used for this home occupation.

         J.   Traffic, Parking, And Access: No home occupation use shall generate pedestrian,
              parking, or vehicular traffic in excess of that customarily associated with the
              zone in which the use is located. All parking shall be provided and maintained on
              site with adequate provision for drop off traffic.

              -The home occupation will not generate traffic as there will not be any
              customers coming to the residence.

         K. Vehicles: Other than the business owner' s personal transportation, there shall
              be no vehicles or equipment on the property associated with the home
              occupation which would not normally be found at a residence. No signage for
              the home occupation shall be allowed on vehicles.



Jared Ellsworth Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit                     App. # USE-005-2023
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit                   4
             -The home occupation does not have any vehicles associated with it.

         L. Y ards: Y ards surrounding the dwelling and accessory buildings shall not be used
             for any activities or storage of any materials associated with the home
             occupation.

             -The yards will not be used for the home occupation.

         M. Customers: No customers allowed. Children accessing a limited daycare or
            limited preschool facility shall not be considered customers.

             -No customers are coming to the home as all products are sold at craft fairs and
             other community events.

         N. Utility Demand: The home occupation shall not cause a demand for public
             utilities in excess of that necessarily and customarily provided for residential
             uses.

             -The home occupation will not excessively demand public utilities.

         O. Main Structure: The home occupations shall be conducted, located, and
            contained within the primary structure on the property.

             -The home occupation will occur within the primary structure.

         P. Single-Family And Multiple-Family Dwellings: Home occupations listed as
             permitted or conditional within this title may be permitted in a single-family or a
             multiple-family dwelling, subject to the standards found within this section and
             section 9-34-060 of this chapter. Businesses within multiple-family dwellings
             shall provide an approval letter from the respective homeowners' association,
             or management company in the case of apartments, if the business proposes
             any employees, customers or business vehicles.

             -The home occupation is in a single-family dwelling

         Q. Licensure: Any home occupation involving childcare shall comply with all
             applicable state and local laws and regulations regarding residential childcare,
             including, but not limited to, provisions of the Utah child care licensing act, as set
             forth in Utah Code Annotated section 26-39-101 et seq., as amended, and the
             residential certificate childcare standards as set forth in the Utah administrative
             code section R430-50-1 et seq., as amended. In addition, cottage food
             production operations are regulated and inspected by the Utah department of



Jared Ellsworth Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit                     App. # USE-005-2023
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit                   5
             agriculture. Any food related home occupation under their jurisdiction must
             comply with these regulations.

             -Will comply

Criteria For Approval.

The criteria for review and potential approval of a conditional use permit request is found
in Section 9-5-080(E) of the DCMC. This section depicts the standard of review for such
requests as:

         E. Approval Standards: The standards of this subsection shall apply to the issuance
             of a conditional use permit:
          1. A conditional use permit may be issued for a use to be located within a zone
             where the particular conditional use is allowed by the use regulations of the
             zone.
          2. Reasonable conditions may be imposed as necessary to substantially mitigate
             reasonably anticipated detrimental effects of the proposed use. These
             conditions may include conditions concerning use, construction, character,
             location, landscaping, screening, parking, hours of operation, and other matters
             relating to the purposes and objectives of this section. Such conditions shall be
             expressly set forth in the motion authorizing the conditional use permit.
          3. If the reasonably anticipated detrimental effects of a proposed conditional use
             cannot be substantially mitigated by the imposition of reasonable conditions to
             achieve compliance with applicable standards, the conditional use may be
             denied.
          4. The following factors shall be reviewed and considered in determining whether a
             conditional use permit application should be approved, approved with
             conditions, or denied because reasonable conditions cannot be imposed to
             achieve compliance with applicable standards:
               a. The harmony and compliance of the proposed use with the objectives and
                  requirements of the city' s general plan and this title;
               b. The suitability of the specific property for the proposed use;
               c. Whether the proposed use or facility may be injurious to potential or existing
                  development in the vicinity;
               d. The economic impact of the proposed facility or use on the surrounding
                  area;
               e. The aesthetic impact of the proposed facility or use on the surrounding area;
               f. The safeguards proposed or provided to ensure adequate utilities,
                  transportation access, drainage, parking, loading space, lighting, screening,
                  landscaping, open space, fire protection, and pedestrian and vehicular
                  circulation;




Jared Ellsworth Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit                  App. # USE-005-2023
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit                   6
              g. The safeguards provided or proposed to prevent noxious or offensive
                 emissions such as noise, glare, dust, pollutants and odor from the proposed
                 facility or use; and
              h. The impact of the proposed facility or use on the health, safety, and welfare
                 of the city, the area, and persons owning or leasing property in the area.
          5. The planning commission may request additional information as may be
             reasonably needed to determine whether the requirements of this subsection E
             can be met.


REVIEWS

Planning Division Review. The Draper City Planning Division has completed their review of
the Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit submission. Comments from this division, if
any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Engineering and Public Works Divisions Review. The Draper City Engineering and Public
Works Divisions have completed their reviews of the «R Home Occupation Conditional Use
Permit submission. Comments from these divisions, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Building Division Review. The Draper City Building Division has completed their review of
the Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit submission. Comments from this division, if
any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Fire Division Review. The Draper City Fire Marshal has completed his review of the Home
Occupation Conditional Use Permit.



STAFF RECOMMENDATION
Staff recommends that the Planning Commission review the request based on the findings
listed below and the criteria for approval, or denial as listed within the staff report. The
Planning Commission should also review the request, hear from the applicant, and receive
public comment prior to making a decision.

If the Planning Commission decides to approve the request, staff recommends they include
the following conditions of approval:

         1.       That all business requirements of the Draper City Engineering, Public Works
                  Building, Business Licensing, Planning and Fire Divisions are satisfied
                  throughout the operation of the business.
         2.       A business license shall be maintained for the life of the business.
         3.       Customers are not allowed to come to the property.




Jared Ellsworth Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit                  App. # USE-005-2023
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit                   7
The findings for approval as are follows:

         1. Reasonable mitigation measures can be placed on the conditional use to
            alleviate anticipated detrimental effects.

The findings for denial as are follows:
       1. Reasonable mitigation measures cannot be placed on the conditional use to
          alleviate anticipated detrimental effects.



MODEL MOTIONS

Sample Motion for Approval – I move that we approve the Home Occupation Conditional
Use Permit, as requested by Jared Ellsworth representing application USE-005-2023 based
on the findings and subject to the conditions listed in the Staff Report dated April 12, 2023.

Sample Motion for Modified Approval– I move that we approve the Home Occupation
Conditional Use Permit ,as requested by Jared Ellsworth, application USE-005-2023, based
on the findings and subject to the conditions listed in the Staff Report dated April 12, 2023
and as modified by the findings and conditions below:

         1. List any additional findings and conditions…

Sample Motion for Denial – I move that we deny the Home Occupation Conditional Use
Permit as requested by Jared Ellsworth, application USE-005-2023, based on the findings
listed in the Staff Report dated April 12, 2023.




Jared Ellsworth Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit                 App. # USE-005-2023
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit                   8
                                       EXHIBIT A
                                  DEPARTMENT REVIEWS

REVIEWS ARE NOT MEANT TO BE AN ALL INCLUSIVE LIST OF POSSIBLE COMMENTS OR
CONDITIONS.

Planning Division Review.

       1. No additional comments provided.

Engineering and Public Works Divisions Review.

       1. The present and future requirements for transportation, traffic, water, sewer,
          and other utilities for the subject site do not appear to be detrimentally
          impacted as described. Given the location and proposed use, the use is not
          anticipated to generate a significant impact to water, sewer, or other potential
          utilities.
       2. The number of trips generated by the home owner/employees will not have a
          detrimental impact to traffic in the area due no employees and no customers
          visiting the house. The applicant has indicated product will be produced within
          the residence but will be sold at craft fairs or other points of sale locations. With
          the applicant’s no customers and no additional employees, no significant impact
          to traffic is anticipated with the proposed use.
       3. No additional parking is anticipated for employees where the applicant being the
          only employee. The applicant indicated no changes to the existing home use or
          parking. Materials will be brought to the house by the owner and delivered to
          the point of sale as part of the process, with no deliveries or truck traffic
          expected. Parking on 13590 South may impact traffic if it is during poor weather
          or if there are other cars parked on the opposite side of the street nearby.
          However, based on the information from the applicant, no significant impact to
          parking is anticipated with the proposed use.



Building Division Review.

       1. No additional comments provided.

Fire Division Review.

       1. 2A-10BC Fire Extinguishers required. The extinguisher needs to be a serviceable
          type meaning metal head and metal neck. Extinguishers need to located in a
          conspicuous location where the will be readily accessible and immediately
          available for use. Placed on every level of the home. If in cabinet or not the
   extinguisher or cabinet needs to be mounted so that the top is more than five(5)
   feet above the floor.

2. There shall be single station inter connected smoke detectors in good working
   condition on each level occupied by the clients. Battery operated smoke
   detectors shall be, permitted if the home demonstrates testing, maintenance,
   and battery replacement to insure continued operation of the smoke.

3. Visible Addressing Required. New and existing buildings shall have approved
   address numbers plainly legible and visible from the street fronting the
   property. These numbers shall contrast with their background.
 EXHIBIT C
VICINITY MAP
 EXHIBIT D
AERIAL MAP
  EXHIBIT E
LAND USE MAP
 EXHIBIT F
ZONING MAP
EXHIBIT G
SITE PLAN
                                        EXHIBIT H
                                  APPLICANT STATEMENTS

Overview of Proposed Use - Craft fair type art and craft items will be created in the home. There
are no anticipated changes to the use of the home, no parking, no business hours, no employees,
no patrons and no impacts to nearby homes.

Statement of Compliance - Craft items will be made in the home consistent with all approval
standards.

Analysis of Deviations Requested - Craft art and items are considered a cottage business that
require a conditional use permit. The definition found in the Draper code is - A business where
products are created in the home. The products are unique in nature, such as handicraft, art, and
jewelry. Limited food production can also be considered. Anything that uses a material, a
mixture of materials or a quantity of materials that could be classified by the fire marshal or
building official as dangerous or hazardous will not be allowed.
 EXHIBIT I
PRODCUTS
