                                       DRAPER CITY HALL
                      Community Development | 1020 E. Pioneer Rd. Draper, UT 84020




August 3, 2022


Ikon Development
Attn: John Wheatley
4103 Canyon View Place
Sandy, Utah 84092

RE:    Notice of Approval for the Trailside Townhomes Plat Amendment Request

Dear Mr. Wheatley,

On July 28, the Planning Commission approved your request for a plat amendment on the
property at approximately 2142-2318 E. Brookings Drive, application SUBD-111-2022, with
the following comments or conditions:

1.     That all requirements of the Draper City Engineering, Public Works, Building,
       Planning, and Fire Divisions are satisfied throughout the development of the site
       and the construction of all buildings on the site, including permitting.
2.     That all requirements of the geotechnical report are satisfied throughout the
       development of the site and the construction of all buildings on the site.
       a)      Prior to obtaining a Land Disturbance Permit addressing the following: TG
               recommendation No. 2, in the December 13, 2021, TG Geotechnical
               Engineering Review No. 2 (TG, 2021), is implemented by the City: “Before
               commencement of mass grading, the City requires a project meeting to
               review grading and earthwork requirements.”
       b)      Prior to obtaining a Building Permit: Summary of CMT Earthwork
               Recommendations and Summary of CMT Geotechnical Recommendations
               for Plan Review in the December 13, 2021, TG Geotechnical Engineering
               Review No. 2, (TG, 2021), are implemented during Plan Review by the City.
       c)      Prior to obtaining a Land Disturbance Permit address the following: On page
               2 of the June 27, 2022, CMT document, CMT states:
               - “We also understand that a storm brick system will be constructed at the
                   site to collect and convey stormwater. The storm brick system will
                   discharge water to a couple locations at the fill slope face and water will
                   not be allowed to drain into the ground below the system.”
               - Based on a review of Sheet C3.0, Grading and Drainage Plan, and Sheet
                   C7.3, Construction Details, Trailside Townhomes, prepared by Kimley
                   Horn, dated June 6, 2022, it appears the proposed “stormbrick” system
                   will allow water to drain into the ground below the stormwater system.


      801-576-6391    |   maryann.pickering @draperutah.gov         |   draperutah.gov
              -   If the “stormbrick” system is used as part of the development storm
                  drainage plan, before final permit approval by the City, TG recommends
                  the City REQUIRE CMT to update their global stability analyses of the
                  affected slopes to include seepage pressure derived from the drainage
                  water infiltrating the slope.
       d)     Prior to obtaining a Building Permit address the following: Under review
              comment (2) in the July 11, 2022, TG review letter, TG stated:
              - “Should CMT rely on the Geopier/stone column specialty contractor for
                  the design analysis of the Geopiers/stone columns, TG recommends the
                  City request the specialty contractor provide the design analysis for
                  review.”
              - In response to the comment, the July 12, 2022, CMT response letter
                  stated:
              - “We understand that a specialty contractor will provide settlement
                  analysis for Geopiers/stone columns.”
              - Before final building plan permit approval, TG recommends the City
                  REQUIRE CMT to provide the settlement and bearing design analysis for
                  the Geopiers/stone columns for review.
3.     Prior to Land Disturbance Permit issuance, address the outstanding Planning
       Division redlines listed in Exhibit A of the Planning Commission staff report, dated
       July 20, 2022.
4.     All hydrants and a form of acceptable temporary Fire Department Access to the site
       shall be installed and APPROVED by the Fire Department prior to the issuance of any
       Building Permits. If at any time during the building phase any of the hydrants or
       temporary Fire Department Access becomes non-compliant any and all permits
       could be revoked.
5.     No combustible construction shall be allowed prior to hydrant installation and
       testing by water purveyor. All hydrants must be operational prior to any
       combustible elements being received or delivered on building site.
6.     Fire sprinklers are required or an approved alternative shall be approved by the Fire
       Marshal prior to building permit issuance.
7.     Address the outstanding Engineering Division redlines listed in Exhibit A of the
       Planning Commission staff report, dated July 20, 2022 prior to issuance of a Land
       Disturbance permit, unless designated otherwise.

Please be aware that the approval by Draper City in no way exempts the property from
complying with other requirements that may be in effect on the property such as CC&R’s,
zoning, subdivision, site plan, land disturbance, and building permit regulations, as
applicable. It is the responsibility of the property owner to ensure compliance with these
regulations.

Section 17-9-070 of the Draper City Municipal Code specifies that the approval of a plat
amendment expires one year from the date of approval if the plat has not been recorded
or construction of the required landscaping and infrastructure has not commenced. As
such, the approval granted for the subject request will be rendered null and void if
recordation or commencement of construction has not taken place. The expiration of the
approval can also be avoided through an extension of the approval. A maximum of one
extension for a period of up to six months can be requested in writing to the Community
Development Department prior to the date of expiration.

As the applicant, this letter is intended as a courtesy to document the status of your
request. If you have questions, please contact me at maryann.pickering@draperutah.gov
or 801-576-6391.

Respectfully,




Maryann Pickering, AICP
Planner III
Community Development Department

Cc:    Fred Aegerter, Community Development Director
       Karen Burnett, GIS Manager
       Tevai Haunga, Planning Coordinator
       Kim Graham, Building Coordinator
       Danna Hyer, Office Manager, Public Works Division
