Coversheet
Item Coversheet MEMO To: Planning Commission
From: Jennifer Jastremsky, AICP
CC:  Date: May 25, 2023
Re: Big Willow Creek Phase 7 & 8 – Site Plan and Plat Amendment Request Comments: This application is a request for approval of a Site Plan and Plat Amendment for approximately 7.25 acres located on the south side of 11400 S and east of Englemann Dr., at approximately 491 W 11400 S. The property is currently zoned R4, RM2, and RA1 . The applicant is requesting that a Site Plan and Plat Amendment be approved to allow for the development of the currently vacant site with single-family and townhome lots. The findings are as follows: For approval:
1.   There is good cause for the vacation or amendment; and no public street, right-of-way, or easement has been vacated or amended.
2.   A phased development plan has been approved.
3.   The site plan conforms to applicable standards set forth in this title, including but not limited to, building heights, setbacks, access points, parking, landscaping, and building materials.
4.   The proposed development plans meet the intent, goals, and objectives of the general plan and the purpose of the zone district in which the site is located.
5.   The public facilities and services in the area are adequate to support the subject development, as required by engineering standards and specifications.
6.   The proposed development plans comply with the engineering standards found in Titles 7, 8, 11, 12, 16, and 18 of this code, including traffic, storm water drainage, and utilities concerns.
For denial:
1. There is not good cause for the vacation or amendment; and a public street, right-of-way, or easement has been vacated or amended.
2.   The site plan does not conform to applicable standards set forth in this title, including but not limited to, building heights, setbacks, access points, parking, landscaping, and building materials.
3.   The proposed development plans do not meet the intent, goals, and objectives of the general plan and the purpose of the zone district in which the site is located.
4.   The public facilities and services in the area are not adequate to support the subject development, as required by engineering standards and specifications.
5.   The proposed development plans do not comply with the engineering standards found in Titles 7, 8, 11, 12, 16, and 18 of this code, including traffic, storm water drainage, and utilities concerns. ATTACHMENTS: Description Upload Date Type PC Staff Report 5/19/2023 Cover Memo