Draper City 2023 Moderate Income Housing Report (outline)

General Information:

   1. Contact information and selection of correct report type.

Reporting on Strategies:

   1. Provide the following for each selected strategy:
          a. Description of each action taken (Reporting period Nov. 22, 2022 thru July 31, 2023)
          b. Land use regulations or land use decisions made that support implementation of the
              strategy.
          c. Barriers encountered in implementing the strategy.

Market Response to the implementation of the strategy:

   1. For each selected strategy provide the following:
          a. Number and type of new units permitted.
          b. Number and type of affordable units added.
          c. Number and type of affordable units rehabilitated.
          d. Number and type of units converted from other uses.
          e. Change in local rent amounts.
          f. Change in the number of persons displaced.
          g. Change in the number of households experiencing housing cost burden.
          h. Change in the share of household income spent on housing.
          i. Number of zoning map changes associated with the MIH strategy.
          j. Narrative describing the market response observed during the implementation of the
              strategies.

Accessory Dwelling Units:

   1. Provide the following data:
          a. How does the City count ADU’s? (A: Issued ADU permits)
          b. Total number of ADU’s in the City. (A: 26)
          c. Total number of new building permits for ADU’s. (A: 1)
          d. Total number of ADU Permits granted in the reporting period. (A: 13)
          e. Total number of other permits or licenses issued for ADU’s in reporting period. (A: n/a)

Feedback and Recommendations:

   1. What types of support would be helpful to the community in supporting the implementation of
      the moderate income housing strategies? (Select all that apply)
      • Housing supply data                                   • Staff Resources
      • Housing needs data                                    • Technical Assistance for reporting
      • Technical Planning Assistance                         • Guidebooks for planning and
      • Model Ordinances                                          reporting
      • Case Studies                                          • Other
   2. Provide recommendations to the State on how they can support the City in implementing our
      Moderate Income Housing plan strategies.
