    MINUTES OF THE DRAPER CITY PLANNING COMMISSION MEETING
     HELD ON THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 17, 2022 IN THE DRAPER CITY
                       COUNCIL CHAMBERS

PARTICIPATING:         Chairman Andrew Adams, Commissioners Craig Hawker, Lisa
                       Fowler, DeLaina Tonks, and Alternate Commissioners Tab
                       Bingham, Susan Nixon, and Kendra Shirey

ABSENT:                Commissioners Gary Ogden and Mary Squire

STAFF PRESENT:         Jennifer Jastremsky, Fred Aegerter, Maryann Pickering, Spencer
                       DuShane, Mike Barker, Tevai Haunga, Don Buckley, Reed
                       Reimschussel

Chairman Andrew Adams welcomed everyone for attending.

6:30 PM Business Meeting

1. Action Item: Approve Planning Commission Meeting Dates for 2023
(Administrative
Action)
Jennifer Jastremsky presented the proposed dates for 2023 Planning Commission Meetings.
She noted they would be on the second and fourth Thursday of each month. In November,
she proposed moving the meeting on the fourth Thursday to the third Thursday due to
Thanksgiving. Ms. Jennifer Jastremsky addressed the Commissioners and asked if they
would like to change the meeting that falls between Christmas and New Years to an earlier
date, or if they would like to make a note that it would be concealed on the fourth Thursday.

The Commissioners discussed the proposal to cancel the meeting or to change it to an earlier
date. The Commissioners decided to have two meetings in December of 2023, the seventh
and the fourteenth.

       Motion: Commissioner DeLaina Tonks motioned to approve the meeting dates
       with the meetings on December 7, 14, 2023.

       Second: Commissioner Lisa Fowler

       Vote: A roll call was taken with the Commissioners voting 5-0 in favor of the
       motion. Commissioners Tonks, Fowler, Hawker, Nixon, and Bingham voted,
       “Aye”.

2. Public hearing: Box N Lock Storage Zoning Text Amendment (Legislative Action)

On the request of Steve Tripp, representing TriCo Construction, for a Text Amendment to
Draper
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
Thursday, November 17, 2022
Page 2

City Municipal Code Section 9-13-080, Table 9-13-2 in order to modify the setback
standard for M1 and M2 zones. The application has citywide applicability. Application
TEXTMAP-198-2022. Staff contact is Jennifer Jastremsky, 801-576-6328,
jennifer.jastremsky@draperutah.gov.

Jennifer Jastremsky presented the project and explained the text amendment. The
amendment would change the building setback standard within the manufacturing zones.
Ms. Jastremsky stated the fifteen-foot setback currently in the code does not function well
and it would benefit to modify the front setback standard. She noted that ten feet setback is
appropriate for a rear and side setback in the M1 zone. Given the more intense uses allowed
in the M2 zone, the amendment would require additional setbacks in that zone based on
what zone a property is adjacent to. Ms. Jastremsky then stated that there was an error on
the legislative draft that was included in the staff report. Footnote number 3 was being
eliminated from the development standards table with the modification of the setbacks. Any
motion needs to include the recommendation that the footnote number 3 be removed from
the code section.

Applicant: Mr. Steve Tripp agreed with what was stated before. He presented a concept
layout of his property and proposed use. He is proposing storage units, but given the narrow
width of the property the existing setbacks make the land infeasible to develop.

Chairman Adams opened the public hearing.

No public comments were made.

Chairman Adams closed the public hearing.

       Motion: Commissioner Hawker motioned to make a positive recommendation
       to the city council for the text amendment requested by Steve Tripp
       representing Box N Lock Storage Zoning Text Amendment. Application
       TEXTMAP-198-2022. Based on the findings and subject to the condition listed
       in the staff report dated November 8, 2022 as modified by taking footnote
       number three out and deleting that from the DCMC table.

       Second: Commissioner Susan Nixon

       Vote: A roll call was taken with the Commissioners voting 5-0 in favor of the
       motion. Commissioners Hawker, Nixon, Fowler, Tonks, and Bingham voted,
       “Aye”.

3. Public Hearing: Trailside Townhomes Site Plan (Administrative Action)

On the request of John Wheatley, representing IKON Development, for approval of a Site
Plan on 19.37 acres of property located at approximately 2142 E. Brookings Drive. The
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
 Thursday, November 17, 2022
 Page 3
property is located in the RR-22, RR-43 and RM zones. Application SPR-058-2022. Staff
contact is Maryann Pickering at 801-576-6391, maryann.pickering@draperutah.gov.

Maryann Pickering, Planner III, presented this project. This site is in Utah County. The
development agreement was approved in 2015 with 160 units. The Planning Commission
previously denied the two deviations for sidewalks and building materials. The applicant
appealed for sidewalk deviation to the Hearing Officer and it was settled by the applicant
and the City. Mr. John Wheatley the applicant, updated the site plan to meet all minimum
code requirements and the outcome of the agreement for sidewalks between the applicant
and the City.

Ms. Pickering informed the Commissioners of the updated plan. The proposal now shows
a total of 149 units. The landscaping will remain the same as before and the issues that
were addressed with landscaping previously have been changed. The lighting plan had some
issues previously, those issues were addressed and the plan now complies with code
requirements.

Applicant John Wheatley with IKON Development, stated the change in units was to
accommodate all the needs of the sidewalk and comply with the standards for an approval.

Commissioner Susan Nixon asked if the sidewalks were ADA compliant for any residents
who were in a wheelchair, could they access the club house by sidewalk. Applicant James
Wheatley stated all sidewalks, pathways, ramps, etc. would be ADA compliant around the
units and clubhouse.

Chairman Adams opened the public hearing.

No comments were made.

Chairman Adams closed the public hearing.

       Motion: Commissioner Nixon made a motion to approve the site plan as
       requested by John Wheatley representing IKON Development for Trailside
       Townhomes. Application SPR-058-2022. Based on the findings and subject to
       the conditions listed in the staff report dated November 8, 2022.

       Second: Commissioner Tab Bingham

       Vote: A roll call was taken with the Commissioners voting 5-1 in favor of the
       motion. Commissioners Nixon, Bingham, Fowler, Hawker and Tonks voted,
       “Aye”


4. Public Hearing: Royale Estate & Cottages Development Agreement, Land use Map
Amendment, and Zoning Map Amendment (Legislative Action)
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
Thursday, November 17, 2022
Page 4

On the request of Bruce Bastian, representing J.B. Earl Company for a Development
Agreement, Land Use Map Amendment, and Zoning Map Amendment for 1.65 Acres of
property at 12430 S 700 E. Applications DA-156-2022, TEXTMAP-153-2022 and
TEXTMAP-155-2022. Staff contact is Jennifer Jastremsky, 801-576-6328,
jennifer.jastremsky@draperutah.gov.

Jennifer Jastremsky presented this project. The applicant has asked for a zoning map
amendment to put an assisted living facility and three single family homes on the properties.
Ms. Jastremsky stated that basically, the property would be split with the area that would
house the assisted living facility being in the CN zone and the Neighborhood Commercial
land use designation; and the three single-family homes remaining in the Medium Density
Residential land use designation and being rezoned to the R4 zoning district. The assisted
living facility would have twenty-nine units.

The Commissioners asked how tall the building would be. Ms. Jastremsky stated the
maximum height in the CN zone is thirty-five feet. She then explained that the height is
measured, from the average finished grade to the midpoint of the highest truss.

Applicant: Mr. Bruce Bastian showed his presentation to the commissioners stating this
proposed project is a better way to provide assisted and independent living by allowing
seniors to still be able to interact with their families and have the care they need in a home
like setting. There are some rooms that accommodate couples, but most of the rooms are
single rooms. The idea is to respect the seniors and their way of life but not to isolate them.
This project provides a place to gather for all ages, allowing seniors to interact with their
families as if they were able to be at home. This idea and project provide a safe place where
hosting, and entertaining could take place.

The Commissioners asked if the three separate buildings would be rentals or homes to be
purchased. Mr. Bastian stated that the single-family homes would be homes for sale and
not available for rent. The question was asked of how much the homes would be sold for.
Mr. Bastian responded that the sales price would be on the upper end of the market.

Chairman Adams opened the public hearing.

Caralyn Buehner (resident), expressed concern with the construction. She stated her home
is an old adobe building that has been affected with construction. Mrs. Buehner stated if
this building goes up the view outside her kitchen window will be blocked. She also
commented about traffic congestion that would occur on 7th East. Mrs. Buehner noted that
there are many other elderly home facilities within a mile of this location and wondered if
this is the best location for this facility.

Mark Buehner (resident), stated he shares some of the same concerns as his wife. One of
his concerns was regarding the balconies on the building and how low they would be and
the potential of cutting into neighboring privacy. Mr. Buehner also asked if it was good idea
to change the zone in the middle of a residential zone.
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
 Thursday, November 17, 2022
 Page 5
Seth Wright (resident), stated he had some of the same concerns as the others. He thought
it was a great concept and idea but may not the best place for it.

Kelsie Wright (resident), stated, stated she has worked in a nursing home facility and thinks
this is a wonderful idea but worried about the parking and the small space.

Helene Terry (resident), expressed concern about traffic and parking along 7th East.

John Wilkins (resident), stated he thought this was a great concept but the location was not
the best location.

Chairman Adams closed the public hearing.

Chairman Adams asked Mr. Bastian to address concerns and questions brought up by the
public. Mr. Bastian responded to the parking concerns. He stated there will be twenty-two
parking stalls along with three drop off short term parking stalls. If an issue arose with
parking, they could provide a shuttle taking people to and from the site.

Commissioner Hawker asked how many employees would be taking up some of the spaces
and what the shifts would be. Mr. Jason Giatras, applicant, stated the employees will work
in shifts rotating eight-to-twelve-hours including both part-time and full-time positions.

The question arose from the Commissioners if the residents will have cars parked at the
facility. Mr. Giatras stated the idea is not for residents to have cars, but they have had
situations at other locations where the elderly residents go to the facility with the cars and
eventually stop driving. It's a situation that involves the family of the resident.

Commissioner Hawker asked about the drivers in the area and if this would be a good idea
creating a high density in the area. He called it a commercial creep into the residential area
and once it happens it will continue to happen.

Commissioner Fowler addressed the concern that was stated from a resident about damage
with construction to their home. Commissioner Fowler asked if damage occurs could the
resident sue for damage done to their home. Mike Barker stated in any case there could be
recourse if the residential home was damaged but that it would be a matter between the
homeowners and the adjacent property owners.

       Motion: Commissioner Fowler made a motion for a positive recommendation
       to the city council for the Royale Estate & Cottages Development Agreement
       as requested by Bruce Bastian, representing J.B. Earl Company. Application
       DA-156-2022. Based on the findings and subject to the changes listed in the
       staff report dated October 17, 2022.

       Second: Commissioner Nixon
      Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
      Thursday, November 17, 2022
      Page 6
             Vote: A roll call was taken with the Commissioners voting 4-1 in favor of the
             motion. Commissioners Fowler, Nixon, Tonks and Bingham voted, “Aye”;
             Commissioner Hawker voted “Nay”.

            Motion: Commissioner Nixon made the motion to forward a positive
            recommendation to the city council for the Royale Estate & Cottages Land use
            amendment as requested by Bruce Bastian, representing J.B. Earl Company.
            Application TEXTMAP-153-2022. Based on the findings and subject to the
            changes listed in the staff report dated October 17, 2022.

            Second: Commissioner Fowler

            Vote: A roll call was taken with the Commissioners voting 4-1 in favor of the
            motion. Commissioners Nixon, Fowler, Tonks and Bingham voted, “Aye”;
            Commissioner Hawker voted “Nay”.

            Motion: Commissioner Fowler made motion to send a positive
            recommendation to the city council for the Royale Estate & Cottages Zoning
            Map Amendment as requested by Bruce Bastian, representing J.B. Earl
            Company. Application TEXTMAP-155-2022. Based on the findings and
            subject to the changes listed in the staff report dated October 17, 2022.

            Second: Commissioner Bingham

            Vote: A roll call was taken with the Commissioners voting 4-1 in favor of the
            motion. Commissioners Fowler, Bingham, Tonks, and Nixon voted, “Aye”;
            Commissioner Hawker voted “Nay”.

     Ms. Jastremsky asked the Commissioners if they would be available for a joint meeting
     with the City Council on January 10, 2023.

     Commissioner Fowler asked what the meeting would be for. Mr. Fred Aegerter informed
     the Commissioners the purpose of the meeting was to coordinate with the City Council what
     the future of the community will be.

      Chairman Adams stated this kind of meeting has gone on in years prior. It has been a good
      way to join together and see what the main goals are for the city and its future.

5. Adjournment

      Motion: Commissioner Hawker made the motion to adjourn at 8:18pm.
