Coversheet
Item Coversheet MEMO To: City Council Meeting
From: Jennifer Jastremsky, AICP
CC:  Date: May 16, 2023
Re: Ikea – Text Amendment Request Comments: This application is a request for approval of a Text Amendment for approximately 35.6 acres located on the west side of I-15, at approximately 67 West Ikea Way. The property is currently zoned CSD-DRC . The applicant is requesting that a Text Amendment be approved to modify parking standards for retail uses, wall sign standards, and update the concept plan.
The Planning Commission reviewed this request at their April 27, 2023 meeting and forwarded a positive recommendation on a 5-0 vote.  The findings are as follows: For approval:
1.   The proposed amendment is consistent with goals, objectives and policies of the city's general plan.
2.   The proposed amendment furthers the specific purpose statements of the zoning ordinance.
3.   The proposed amendment is appropriate given the context of the request and there is sufficient justification for a modification to the zoning ordinance.
4.   The proposed amendment will not create a conflict with any other section or part of this title or the general plan.
5.   The potential effects of the proposed amendment have been evaluated and determined not to be detrimental to public health, safety, or welfare and represents an overall community benefit.
6.   The proposed text amendment implements best current, professional practices of urban planning, design, and engineering practices.
For denial:
1.   The proposed amendment is not consistent with goals, objectives and policies of the city's general plan.
2.   The proposed amendment does not further the specific purpose statements of the zoning ordinance.
3.   The proposed amendment is not appropriate given the context of the request and there is not sufficient justification for a modification to the zoning ordinance.
4.   The proposed amendment will create a conflict with another section or part of this title or the general plan.
5.   The potential effects of the proposed amendment have been evaluated and determined to be detrimental to public health, safety, or welfare and represents an overall community benefit.
6.   The proposed text amendment does not implements best current, professional practices of urban planning, design, and engineering practices. ATTACHMENTS: Description Upload Date Type Ord 1581 5/11/2023 Cover Memo PC Staff Report 5/11/2023 Cover Memo