MEMO
To: Planning Commission
From: Tevai Haunga
Date: 2023-09-14
Re: Public Hearing: Draper Box N Lock Site Plan (Administrative Action)


Comments:

This application is a request for approval of a Site Plan and Deviation for approximately
3.88 acres located at 15037 S. Minuteman Drive. The property is currently zoned M1. The
applicant is asking for approval of a new storage facility.


The findings for approval as are follows:



  1. The site plan reflects the full development of the property.
  2. The site plan conforms to applicable standards set forth in this title, including but
     not limited to, building heights, setbacks, access points, parking, landscaping, and
     building materials.
  3. The proposed development plans meet the intent, goals, and objectives of the
     general plan and the purpose of the zone district in which the site is located.
  4. The public facilities and services in the area are adequate to support the subject
     development, as required by engineering standards and specifications.
  5. The proposed development plans comply with the engineering standards found in
     Titles 7, 8, 11, 12, 16, and 18 of this code, including traffic, storm water drainage, and
     utilities concerns.
  6. The proposal does meet the applicable criteria for a deviation from DCMC Section
     9-22-030.


The findings for denial as are follows:




  1. The site plan does not conform to applicable standards set forth in this title,
     including but not limited to, building heights, setbacks, access points, parking,
     landscaping, and building materials
  2. The proposed development plans do not meet the intent, goals, and objectives of
     the general plan and the purpose of the zone district in which the site is located.
  3. The public facilities and services in the area are not adequate to support the subject
     development, as required by engineering standards and specifications.
  4. The proposed development plans do not comply with engineering standards found
     in Titles 7, 8, 11, 12, 16, and 18 of this code, including traffic, storm water drainage,
     and utilities concerns.
  5. The proposal does not meet the applicable criteria for a deviation from DCMC
     Section 9-22-030.


ATTACHMENTS:

Box N Lock Staff Report Final Draft.pdf
