                                          DRAPER CITY HALL
                      Community Development | 1020 E. Pioneer Rd. Draper, UT 84020




May 6, 2022

Summerhays Landscaping & Maintenance LLC
Attn: Ryan Summerhays
PO Box 383
Draper, UT 84020

RE:    Notice of Approval for the Summerhays Landscaping Office Plat Amendment
       Request

Dear Mr. Summerhays,

On April 28, 2022, the Draper City Planning Commission approved your request for a Plat
Amendment on the property at approximately 134 E 12300 S, application SUBD-12-2022,
with the following conditions:

       1.     That all requirements of the Draper City Engineering, Public Works, Building,
              Planning, and Fire Divisions are satisfied throughout the development of the
              site and the construction of all buildings on the site, including permitting.
       2.     That all requirements of the geotechnical report are satisfied throughout the
              development of the site and the construction of all buildings on the site.
       3.     If the final plat is not recorded within one (1) year from the date of Planning
              Commission approval or construction of the required landscaping and
              infrastructure has not commenced, such approval shall be null and void. This
              time period may be extended by the Planning Commission for up to one
              additional six (6) month period for good cause shown. The subdivider must
              petition in writing for an extension prior to the expiration of the original one
              (1) year.

Please be aware that the approval of a Plat Amendment by Draper City in no way exempts
the property from complying with other requirements that may be in effect on the property
such as CC&R’s, zoning, subdivision, site plan, land disturbance, and building permit
regulations, as applicable. It is the responsibility of the property owner to ensure
compliance with these regulations.

Section 17-9-070 of the Draper City Municipal Code specifies that the approval of a Plat
Amendment expires one year from the date of approval if the plat has not been recorded
or construction of the required landscaping and infrastructure has not commenced. As




      801-576-6328    |   Jennifer.jastremsky@draperutah.gov        |   draperutah.gov
such, the approval granted for the subject request will be rendered null and void on April
28, 2023 if recordation or commencement of construction has not yet taken place. The
expiration of the approval can also be avoided through an extension of the approval. A
maximum of one extension for a period of up to six months can be requested in writing to
the Community Development Department prior to the date of expiration.

As the applicant, this letter is intended as a courtesy to document the status of your
request. If you have further questions, please contact me at
jennifer.jastremsky@draperutah.gov or 801-576-6328.

Respectfully,


Jennifer Jastremsky, AICP
Planning Manager / Zoning Administrator
Community Development Department

Cc     Karen Burnett, GIS Manager
       Tevai Haunga, Planning Coordinator
       Kim Graham, Building Inspection Coordinator
       Danna Hyer, Administrative Executive Assistant, Engineering Department
       File




     801-576-6328     |   Jennifer.jastremsky @draperutah.gov       |   draperutah.gov
