                                 Development Review Committee
                                      1020 East Pioneer Road
                                        Draper, Utah 84020



                                                 STAFF REPORT
                                                 January 31, 2023

To:                   Draper City Planning Commission
                      Business Date: February 9, 2023

From:                 Development Review Committee

Prepared By:          Maryann Pickering, AICP, Planner III
                      Planning Division
                      Community Development Department
                      (801) 576-6391 or maryann.pickering@draperutah.gov

Re:     Cola’s Little Treaterie — Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit Request
        Application No.:     USE-217-2022
        Applicant:           Alexis Ao
        Project Location:    Approximately 14118 S. Deer Arch Lane
        Current Zoning:      RM1 (Multi-Family Residential)
        Acreage:             Approximately 0.09 acres (approximately 3,920.4 square feet)
        Request:             Approval of a Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit in the
                             RM1 zone for a cottage business to make dehydrated dog
                             treats with online sales.



SUMMARY and BACKGROUND
This application is a request for 0.09 acres located on the west side of Deer Arch Lane
(Exhibits B and C). The property is currently zoned RM1. The applicant is requesting
approval a home based cottage business to make dehydrated dog treats with online sales.
The home was built in 2018 and is Lot 127 of Deer Run Preserve Phase 1.




Cola’s Little Treaterie                                             App. # USE-217-2022
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit Request          1
ANALYSIS
General Plan and Zoning.

 Table 1                   General Plan and Zoning Designations                 Exhibit
 Existing Land Use         Residential Medium High Density                      Exhibit D
 Current Zoning            RM1                                                  Exhibit E
 Existing Use              Single Family Residential
 Adjacent Zoning
    East                   RM1
    West                   RM
    North                  RM1
    South                  RM1

The Residential Medium High Density land use designation is characterized as follows:




According to Draper City Municipal Code (DCMC) Section 9-8-020 the purpose of the RM1
zone is to “permit well designed apartments, townhomes, twin homes, and condominiums
at relatively high densities that are appropriately buffered from and compatible with
surrounding land uses.”


Cola’s Little Treaterie                                             App. # USE-217-2022
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit Request   2
Site Plan Layout. The property is located within a platted subdivision. The applicant
intends to only use the kitchen in the residence for the cottage business. A food
dehydrator will be used to make the dog treats. The treats are made with fresh
refrigerated ingredients so there is no large dedicated storage or inventory area associated
with the home based business. All activates associated with the home based business will
be within the residence.

The applicant will be the only employee of the business and does all business activities
online. There are no customers and no outside employees. Orders are prepared and
packaged at the home and then shipped to customers.

The DCMC Section 9-34-040 outlines development standards applicable to all home
occupations. Those criteria, along with information specific to the subject request, are as
follows:

A.      Ownership: The home occupation shall be owned and operated by a person who
        resides in the dwelling where the home occupation is located. Such person shall be
        the primary provider of the labor, work, or service provided in the home occupation.
        -        The applicant lives in the home with her parents and is the primary provider
                 of services.

B.      Business License: A business license for the home occupation shall be obtained
        from and continually maintained with the city pursuant to Title 6, Chapter 11 of this
        code.
        -        The applicant must obtain this home occupation conditional use permit
                 before obtaining a business license.

C.      Employees: Members of the family of the owner who reside in the dwelling may be
        employed in the home occupation. Nonfamily or nonresident employees shall be
        limited to one person.
        -        Applicant is the sole employee and her parents may drop off packages at the
                 post office when needed. There will no outside employees.

D.      Inspection: All facilities shall comply with fire, building, plumbing, electrical and all
        other city, county, state and federal codes. Inspections during reasonable hours by
        city officials may occur as necessary to assure compliance with regulations.
        -        Facilities comply with applicable codes.

E.      Inventory: No stock in trade, inventory, or other merchandise to exceed two
        hundred fifty (250) square feet shall be kept on the premises. No outside storage is
        allowed.



Cola’s Little Treaterie                                                  App. # USE-217-2022
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit Request   3
        -        Any fresh food that is made into the dehydrated dog treats will be kept in a
                 refrigerator. Any storage areas will be less than 250 square feet.

F.      Modification Of Structures Or Yards: There shall be no visible evidence from the
        exterior of a dwelling that it is being used for any other purpose than that of a
        dwelling. No activities shall be carried on outside the dwelling in the yard for the
        benefit of or incidental to the home occupation. No front yard area shall be altered
        to provide parking required for a home occupation.
        -        No yards or structures will be modified.

G.      Nuisance: Tools, items, equipment, or activities conducted within the dwelling which
        is offensive or noxious by reason of the emission of odor, smoke, gas, vibration,
        magnetic interference, or noise shall be prohibited.
        -        The home occupation will not present a nuisance.

H.      Secondary Use: The home occupation shall be clearly incidental and secondary to
        the primary use of the dwelling for residential purposes. The home occupation shall
        not disrupt the normal residential character of the neighborhood in which the
        residence is located. Not more than twenty five percent (25%) of the dwelling unit
        shall be used for the home occupation.
        -        The home occupation is incidental and secondary to the building’s use as a
                 residence. The space used will be less than 25% of the dwelling unit.

I.      Signs: All signage in a residential area must comply with Chapter 26, "Signs", of this
        title.
        -        No signs exist or are proposed for the home occupation.

J.      Traffic, Parking, and Access: No home occupation use shall generate pedestrian,
        parking, or vehicular traffic in excess of that customarily associated with the zone in
        which the use is located. All parking shall be provided and maintained on site with
        adequate provision for drop off traffic.
        -        The home occupation will not generate traffic as there will not be any
                 customers coming to the residence.

K.      Vehicles: Other than the business owner’s personal transportation, there shall be no
        vehicles or equipment on the property associated with the home occupation which
        would not normally be found at a residence. No signage for the home occupation
        shall be allowed on vehicles.
        -        The home occupation does not have any vehicles associated with it.

L.      Yards: Yards surrounding the dwelling and accessory buildings shall not be used for
        any activities or storage of any materials associated with the home occupation.
        -        The yards will not be used for the home occupation.


Cola’s Little Treaterie                                                App. # USE-217-2022
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit Request   4
M.      Customers: No customers allowed. Children accessing a limited daycare or limited
        preschool facility shall not be considered customers.
        -        All products made are shipped to customers. There will be no customers
                 coming to the home.

N.      Utility Demand: The home occupation shall not cause a demand for public utilities in
        excess of that necessarily and customarily provided for residential uses.
        -        The home occupation will not excessively demand public utilities.

O.      Main Structure: The home occupations shall be conducted, located, and contained
        within the primary structure on the property.
        -        The home occupation will occur within the primary structure.

P.      Single-Family And Multiple-Family Dwellings: Home occupations listed as permitted
        or conditional within this title may be permitted in a single-family or a multiple-
        family dwelling, subject to the standards found within this section and Section 9-34-
        060 of this chapter. Businesses within multiple-family dwellings shall provide an
        approval letter from the respective homeowners' association, or management
        company in the case of apartments, if the business proposes any employees,
        customers or business vehicles.
        -        The home occupation is in a single-family dwelling.

Q.      Licensure: Any home occupation involving childcare shall comply with all applicable
        state and local laws and regulations regarding residential childcare, including, but
        not limited to, provisions of the Utah child care licensing act, as set forth in Utah
        Code Annotated section 26-39-101 et seq., as amended, and the residential
        certificate childcare standards as set forth in the Utah administrative code section
        R430-50-1 et seq., as amended. In addition, cottage food production operations are
        regulated and inspected by the Utah Department of Agriculture. Any food related
        home occupation under their jurisdiction must comply with these regulations.
        -        The applicant will be required to obtain applicable approval from the Utah
                 Department of Agriculture for food production.

Criteria For Approval.
The criteria for review and potential approval of a conditional use permit request is found
in Section 9-5-080(E) of the DCMC. This section depicts the standard of review for such
requests as:

E.      Approval Standards: The standards of this subsection shall apply to the issuance of
        a conditional use permit:




Cola’s Little Treaterie                                                App. # USE-217-2022
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit Request   5
        1.       A conditional use permit may be issued for a use to be located within a zone
                 where the particular conditional use is allowed by the use regulations of the
                 zone.
        2.       Reasonable conditions may be imposed as necessary to substantially
                 mitigate reasonably anticipated detrimental effects of the proposed use.
                 These conditions may include conditions concerning use, construction,
                 character, location, landscaping, screening, parking, hours of operation, and
                 other matters relating to the purposes and objectives of this section. Such
                 conditions shall be expressly set forth in the motion authorizing the
                 conditional use permit.
        3.       If the reasonably anticipated detrimental effects of a proposed conditional
                 use cannot be substantially mitigated by the imposition of reasonable
                 conditions to achieve compliance with applicable standards, the conditional
                 use may be denied.
        4.       The following factors shall be reviewed and considered in determining
                 whether a conditional use permit application should be approved, approved
                 with conditions, or denied because reasonable conditions cannot be
                 imposed to achieve compliance with applicable standards:
                 a.      The harmony and compliance of the proposed use with the objectives
                         and requirements of the city's general plan and this title;
                 b.      The suitability of the specific property for the proposed use;
                 c.      Whether the proposed use or facility may be injurious to potential or
                         existing development in the vicinity;
                 d.      The economic impact of the proposed facility or use on the
                         surrounding area;
                 e.      The aesthetic impact of the proposed facility or use on the
                         surrounding area;
                 f.      The safeguards proposed or provided to ensure adequate utilities,
                         transportation access, drainage, parking, loading space, lighting,
                         screening, landscaping, open space, fire protection, and pedestrian
                         and vehicular circulation;
                 g.      The safeguards provided or proposed to prevent noxious or offensive
                         emissions such as noise, glare, dust, pollutants and odor from the
                         proposed facility or use; and
                 h.      The impact of the proposed facility or use on the health, safety, and
                         welfare of the city, the area, and persons owning or leasing property
                         in the area.
        5.       The Planning Commission may request additional information as may be
                 reasonably needed to determine whether the requirements of this
                 subsection E can be met.




Cola’s Little Treaterie                                                App. # USE-217-2022
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit Request   6
REVIEWS
Planning Division Review. The Draper City Planning Division has completed their review of
the home occupation conditional use permit submission. Comments from the Division, if
any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Building Division Review. The Draper City Building Division has completed their review of
the home occupation conditional use permit submission. Comments from the Division, if
any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Engineering and Public Works Divisions Review. The Draper City Engineering and Public
Works Divisions has completed their review of the home occupation conditional use permit
submission. Comments from the Division, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Fire Division Review. The Draper City Fire has completed their review of the home
occupation conditional use permit submission. Comments from the Division, if any, can be
found in Exhibit A.

Legal Review. The Draper City Attorney has completed their review of the home
occupation conditional use permit submission. Comments from the Division, if any, can be
found in Exhibit A.

Noticing. Notice has been properly issued in the manner outlined in the City and State
Codes.



STAFF RECOMMENDATION
Staff recommends that the Planning Commission review the request, receive public
comment, and make a decision based on the findings listed below and the criteria for
approval, or denial, as listed within the staff report.

If the Planning Commission decides to approve the request, staff recommends they include
the following conditions of approval:

1.       All requirements of the Draper City Fire Department, Building Division, and Business
         License Division shall be satisfied throughout the operation of the home occupation
         on the property.
2.       The home occupation is required to maintain approval and adequate licensure from
         any and all necessary agencies.

The findings for approval as are follows:

1.       Reasonable mitigation measures can be placed on the conditional use to alleviate
         anticipated detrimental effects.


Cola’s Little Treaterie                                               App. # USE-217-2022
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit Request   7
The findings for denial as are follows:

1.      Reasonable mitigation measures cannot be placed on the conditional use to
        alleviate anticipated detrimental effects.



MODEL MOTIONS
Sample Motion for Approval – I move that we approve the home occupation conditional
use permit, as requested by Alexis Ao, application USE-217-2022, based on the findings and
subject to the conditions listed in the staff report dated January 31, 2023.

Sample Motion for Modified Approval – I move that we approve the home occupation
conditional use permit, as requested by Alexis Ao, application USE-217-2022, based on the
findings and subject to the conditions listed in the staff report dated January 31, 2023, and
as modified by the findings and conditions below:

1.      List any additional findings and conditions…

Sample Motion for Denial – I move that we deny the home occupation conditional use
permit, as requested by Alexis Ao, application USE-217-2022, based on the findings and
subject to the conditions listed in the staff report dated January 31, 2023.




Cola’s Little Treaterie                                               App. # USE-217-2022
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit Request   8
               DEVELOPMENT REVIEW COMMITTEE ACKNOWLEDGEMENT

We, the undersigned, as duly appointed members of the Draper City Development Review
Committee, do acknowledge that the application which provides the subject for this staff
report has been reviewed by the Committee and has been found to be appropriate for
review by the Draper City Planning Commission and/or City Council.



                   Digitally signed by Brien Maxfield
                   DN: C=US,
                                                                                 Digitally signed by Matthew T. Symes
                   E=brien.maxfield@draperutah.gov,
 Brien Maxfield    O=Draper, OU=Public Works -
                   Engineering, CN=Brien Maxfield
                                                              Matthew T. Symes
                                                                                 DN: C=US, E=matt.symes@draperutah.gov,
                                                                                 O=Draper City Building Department, CN=Matthew
                                                                                 T. Symes
                                                                                 Date: 2023.02.01 13:47:38-07'00'
                   Date: 2023.02.01 12:30:10-07'00'


Draper City Public Works Division                            Draper City Building Division


                    Digitally signed by Don Buckley
                    DN: C=US, E=don.buckley@draper.ut.us,                            Digitally signed by Jennifer Jastremsky


Don Buckley         O=Draper City Fire Department, OU=Fire
                    Marshal, CN=Don Buckley
                    Date: 2023.02.01 16:22:33-07'00'
                                                             Jennifer Jastremsky
                                                                                     DN: C=US, E=jennifer.jastremsky@draperutah.gov,
                                                                                     O=Planning Division, OU=Draper City, CN=Jennifer
                                                                                     Jastremsky
                                                                                     Date: 2023.02.01 13:22:45-07'00'


Draper City Fire Department                                  Draper City Planning Division


                                                                             Digitally signed by Mike Barker
                                                             Mike Barker     Date: 2023.02.01 11:57:39
                                                                             -07'00'

                                                             Draper City Legal Counsel
                                     EXHIBIT A
                                DEPARTMENT REVIEWS

REVIEWS ARE NOT MEANT TO BE AN ALL INCLUSIVE LIST OF POSSIBLE COMMENTS OR
CONDITIONS.

Planning Division Review.
No additional comments provided.

Building Division Review.
No additional comments provided.

Engineering and Public Works Divisions Review.
1.     No employees or customers to visit site.
2.     No on-street parking.
3.     No impact to utilities.

Fire Division Review.
No additional comments provided.
  EXHIBIT B
VICINITY MAP
 EXHIBIT C
AERIAL MAP
  EXHIBIT D
LAND USE MAP
 EXHIBIT E
ZONING MAP
        EXHIBIT F
APPLICANT’S INFORMAITON
A. I reside in the home where the home occupation is located. My mother owns the home
   and I reside in the dwelling. I am the only employee of the business.
B. I will obtain a license from Draper city and continually maintain it.
C. I will be the only employee of the business.
D. All facilities will comply with state/federal codes.
E. The kitchen fridge will be used to store inventory(meats and vegetables). However,
   inventory stock will never be high because I plan on getting the freshness ingredients and
   using them as soon as possible.
F. The business is purely online so no customers will be coming to the property, and only
   the kitchen is utilized, so there will be no visible evidence of dwelling being used for
   other purposes.
G. A single dehydrating machine will be utilized and will cause minimal odor. Overall, it
   will be a very minimal nuisance, which residents are alright with.
H. My parents and I live in the home. Only the kitchen will be used for the business which is
   surely under 25% of the property.
I. No signs will be used because it is purely an online business.
J. No customers will actually physically come to my property, products are dropped off at
   the post office and shipped to customers.
K. Only my car as well as my parent’s cars used for personal transportation will be at the
   property. They will not have any signage on them.
L. No outdoor space will be used for business.
M. Products are shipped to buyers, buyers will not come to the property.
N. Dehydrator being used is energy efficient so it shouldn’t cause a demand for public
   utilities in excess.
O. The kitchen of the home is where operations are conducted.
P. Business is operated in a single family home.
Q. I comply with the regulations by the department of food and agriculture.
Cola’s Little Treaterie, LLC focuses on homemade dehydrated/freeze-dried dog treats using all
natural ingredients. I, Alexis Ao, will be the only employee of Cola’s Little Treaterie, LLC. There
is no required parking because this is an online store. The business will not a have set hours of
operation because I work on it whenever I would like. There will not be any detrimental effects to
the neighbors/neighborhood.
Cola’s Little Treaterie, LLC
Alexis Ao
14118 S Deer Arch Ln, Draper, UT, 84020
Date of Drawing: NOV 30, 2022
Dimensions: ~2.794 m x ~4.064 m
