MEMO
To: City Council
From: Tevai Haunga
Date: 2023-10-17
Re: Public Hearing: Ordinances #1590 and 1591


Comments:

The application is a request for approval of a Land Use and Zoning Map Amendment for
approximately 3.89 acres located on the south side of 12300 S, and north of Galen Hills
Park. The property is currently zoned Community Commercial. The applicant is
requesting a Land Use Map Amendment from Neighborhood Commercial to Community
Commercial and a Zoning Map Amendment from Community Commercial to General
Commercial.

The Planning Commission unanimously voted to forward a positive recommendation on
both applications with a 5-0 vote at their September 28, 2023 meeting.

The findings are as follows:

For approval:

1. The proposed amendments are consistent with goals, objectives and policies of the
city’s general plan.
2. The proposed amendments are harmonious with the overall character of existing
development in the vicinity of the subject property.
3. The proposed amendments are consistent with the standards of any applicable overlay
zone.
4. The proposed amendments will not adversely affect adjacent property.
5. The facilities and services intended to serve the subject property are adequate
including, but not limited to, roadways, parks and recreation facilities, police and fire
protection, schools, storm water drainage systems, water supplies, and wastewater and
refuse
collection.
6. The land map amendment complies with standards found in DCMC Section 9-2-020(F),
DCMC Section 9-5-060(D), and Utah Code Annotated 10-9a-404.

For denial:

1. The proposed amendments are not consistent with goals, objectives and policies of the
city’s general plan.
2. The proposed amendments are not harmonious with the overall character of existing
development in the vicinity of the subject property.
3. The proposed amendments are not consistent with the standards of any applicable
overlay zone.
4. The proposed amendments will adversely affect adjacent property.
5. The facilities and services intended to serve the subject property are not adequate
including, but not limited to, roadways, parks and recreation facilities, police and fire
protection, schools, storm water drainage systems, water supplies, and wastewater and
refuse collection.
6. The land map amendment does not comply with one or more of the standards found
in
DCMC Section 9-2-020(F), DCMC Section 9-5-060(D), and Utah Code Annotated 10-9a-404.


ATTACHMENTS:

Ordinance 1590 Final.pdf
ATTACHMENTS:

Ordinance 1591 Final.pdf
ATTACHMENTS:

Specialized Manufacturing Staff Report Final.pdf
