Draft meeting minutes January 12, 2023


MINUTES OF THE DRAPER CITY PLANNING COMMISSION MEETING HELD ON
THURSDAY, JANUARY 12, 2023, IN THE DRAPER CITY COUNCIL CHAMBERS

PARTICIPATING:        Chairman Andrew Adams, Commissioners Lisa Fowler, Gary Ogden,
                      DeLaina Tonks, and Alternate Commissioners Susan Nixon, Kendra Shirey,
                      and Tab Bingham

ABSENT:               Commissioners Craig Hawker and Mary Squire

STAFF PRESENT:        Jennifer Jastremsky, Spencer DuShane, Todd Draper, Bret Millburn, Amie
                      Salazar, Reed Reimschussel, and Connor Mangelson

6:30 PM Business Meeting

Chair Adams called the meeting to order.

1.     Public Hearing:          Bagley Plat Amendment (Administrative Action).
       On the request of Robert D. and Trisha J. Bagley representing the RDTJB Family Living
       Trust for a Plat Amendment for 0.75 acres of land located at approximately 12471 South
       Draper Grove Ct. in the R3 zone. Application SUBD-196-2022. Staff contact is Conner
       Mangelson, 801-576-6328, conner.mangelson@draperutah.gov.

New Planning Coordinator, Conner Mangelson, was introduced and welcomed. He presented the
Staff report and stated that the property is located off 600 East west and south of Pioneer Road.
The property location was identified on an aerial map displayed. The designated land use is
Residential Medium Density with R3 single-family residential zoning. The minimum lot size is
13,000 square feet, with each lot being about 15,000 square feet. The original subdivision plat
was displayed and the two properties in question were identified. The applicant was requesting a
lot line adjustment for the relocation of the property line. The existing survey was presented
showing the location of the two primary dwelling units. Notable structures included a shed, an
inground trampoline, and a gazebo. The proposed subdivision plat showed the new proposed line
going down 45 feet and then going east approximately 10 ½ feet before continuing to the adjacent
property.

Commissioner Fowler asked about the reasoning behind the proposed adjustment. The applicant,
Rob Bagley, reported that he owns the two properties and when the subdivision was initially
developed, there was already a cinderblock fence on the east property line. There are now two
fences that are 10 feet apart, which created a lane that is wasted space. As a result, the line was
moved 10 feet to the east. The result was to enlarge his backyard. Mr. Bagley was considering
constructing a second structure such as a garage in the rear of the property. He reported that he
lives on Lot 6 and may want to construct a pool at some point and use the 10-foot section to store
pool equipment.
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
January 12, 2023
Page 2


Chair Adams opened the public hearing. There were no public comments. The public
hearing was closed.

Commissioner Fowler acknowledged that the proposal reduces the lot size slightly but asked if it
puts it under the threshold. Mr. Mangelson responded that it still complies with the 13,000-
squarefoot minimum.

Motion: Commissioner Fowler moved to APPROVE the Plat Amendment Application
SUBD-196-2022, as requested by Robert D. and Trisha J. Bagley representing the RDTJB
Family Living Trust for the Bagley Plat Amendment subject to the following:

Findings:

       1. There is good cause for the vacation or amendment; and no public street, right-of-
              way, or easement has been vacated or amended.

Conditions:

       1.     That all requirements of the Draper City Engineering, Public Works,
              Building, Planning, and Fire Divisions are satisfied throughout the
              development of the site and the construction of all buildings on the site,
              including permitting.

       2.     If the plat amendment is not recorded within one (1) year from the date of
              approval or construction of the required landscaping and infrastructure has
              not commenced, such approval shall be null and void. This time period may be
              extended by the Planning Commission for up to one additional six (6) month
              period for good cause shown. The subdivider must petition in writing for an
              extension prior to the expiration of the original one (1) year.

Second: Commissioner DeLaina Tonks.

Vote: A roll call was taken with the Commissioners voting 5-to-0 in favor of the motion.
Commissioners Ogden, Fowler, Tonks, Nixon, and Bingham voted, “Aye”.

2. Public Hearing: Draper TOD Fourth Amended Plat – Subdivision Plat Amendment
      (Administrative Action)
      On the request of Stephen Hopkins, representing ICO Multi-Family Holdings, LLC and
       Ivory Innovations, a Subdivision Plat Amendment to consolidate and reconfigure three
       (3) parcels into two (2) legal Lots, approximately 14.84 acres in size, located at
       approximately 663 W. Vista Station Blvd., Known as application SUBD-86-2022. Staff
       Contact: Todd A. Draper, (801) 576-6335, todd.draper@draperutah.gov.
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
January 12, 2023
Page 3



City Planner III, Todd Draper, presented the Staff Report and described the property location, and
identified it on vicinity and aerial maps displayed. The property is currently vacant with the land
use being Transit Station District on the General Plan Land Use Map. It is comprised of two legal
lots one of which had been further divided. The intent was to consolidate the parcels back into
two lots and readjust the lot line. The current Draper TOD Second Amended Subdivision Plat was
referenced and at one point the property was part of one large lot. The Draper TOD Second
Amended Plat divided the property into two lots. The proposal is to move the lot line and the
associated Public Utility Easement to the new location and create the two revised lots. Site photos
were presented showing where the line would run between the intersection to the north and into
the property.

Commissioner Nixon asked about the intent of the proposed change. Mr. Draper explained that
the property is zoned for multi-family residential and the change may be in anticipation of future
development. At the request of Commissioner Fowler, an additional aerial map was displayed to
better show the location of the property.

Johan Karlsson, from ICO Development, was present on behalf of his colleague Stephen Hopkins,
the applicant. Mr. Karlsson confirmed that the sideline adjustment is in anticipation of future site
plan approval and will fit better with their plans. It was confirmed that the plan is for multi-family
development similar to what is closer to Vista Station. Mr. Karlsson stated that approximately 560
units were envisioned.

Chair Adams opened the public hearing. There were no public comments. The public
hearing was closed.

Commissioner Nixon expressed support for the project since they are anticipating and preparing
for future development.

Motion: Commissioner Susan Nixon moved to APPROVE the Subdivision Plat Amendment
as requested by Stephen Hopkins representing ICO Multi-Family Holdings, LLC and Ivory
Innovations for the Draper TOD Fourth Amended Plat Application SUBD-86-2022, subject
to the following:

Findings:

       1. There is good cause for the vacation or amendment; and no public street, right-of-
              way, or easement has been vacated or amended.

Conditions:
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
January 12, 2023
Page 4


       1.      That all requirements of the Draper City Engineering, Public Works,
               Building, Planning, and Fire Divisions are satisfied throughout the
               development of the site and the construction of all buildings on the site,
               including permitting.

       2.      That all requirements of the geotechnical report are satisfied throughout the
               development of the site and the construction of all buildings on the site.

       3.      The access easements shown on the plat are deeded prior to recordation of the
               plat, and the book, page, and entry number of that recordings entered onto the
               plat.

       4.      That the owner’s dedication section on the plat be amended to include both
               lots 119 and 117.

Second: Commissioner Gary Ogden.

Vote: A roll call was taken with the Commissioners voting 5-to-0 in favor of the motion.
Commissioners Ogden, Fowler, Tonks, Nixon, and Bingham voted, “Aye”.

3. Public Hearing: City Initiated Oak Vista No. 2 at Suncrest Lot 60 2nd Amended Plat
      (Administrative Action)
      On the request of Draper City for a Plat Amendment to Oak Vista No.2 at Suncrest Lot
       60 located at approximately 14886 South Traverse Ridge Rd. in the C-2 (Neighborhood
       Commercial) zone. Application SUBD-214-2022. Staff Contact is Jennifer Jastremsky,
       801-576-6328, jennifer.jastremsky@draperutah.gov.

Planning Manager/Zoning Administrator, Jennifer Jastremsky, presented the Staff Report and
stated that the property is located in the Suncrest commercial core area. The property location was
identified on a map displayed. The property involves property owned by both the Suncrest HOA
and the City. The property is split in terms of land use designation, open space, low-density
residential, and commercial. All of the parcels are zoned C-2. The most recent plat amendment
created a non-disturbance area and parceled out the restaurant, the fire station, and the HOA
property. The proposal is to clean up the plat. With regard to the Ridge Restaurant property, half
of the parking lot in the rear is on HOA-owned property. The intent was to move the property line
so that the parking lot is entirely on the Ridge property. There are areas where the HOA encroaches
onto City property. That encroachment will be remedied by adjusting the property lines. A portion
of City property will be deeded to the HOA which will develop it for additional parking for their
clubhouse facility.
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
January 12, 2023
Page 5


Commissioner Tonks asked if the HOA would be purchasing the additional property. Assistant
City Manager, Bret Millburn, stated that the parcel will be deeded to the HOA. The intent was to
add approximately four additional parking stalls to be assigned specifically to the Ridge property.

Commissioner Nixon asked if the boundary line adjustment will be contiguous with the zoning.
Ms. Jastremsky responded that all of the property is zoned C-2. There will, however, be a slight
difference on the land use map with the result being that the property lines will match the existing
uses.

Commissioner Bingham asked why the City was donating the property. Mr. Millburn explained
that it is a complicated issue. He was not sure of the reasoning behind it other than to resolve a
long-standing issue and be a good neighbor. The City is also under contract to sell the Ridge
property and the proposed change makes the property more viable. The property is a sliver that is
non-developable and non-disturbable.

Ms. Jastremsky reported that the original Lot 60 included the commercial and townhomes. The
City parceled out the commercial properties and because the area was built as single-family, they
zoned the subject parcel as open space. It was noted that it was not originally master planned for
open space or deeded to the City as open space with the Suncrest Development. When the other
subdivisions came in, the developer deeded open space to the City as part of its overall open space
system.

Commissioner Bingham asked about the meaning of the non-developable/non-disturbable
designation. Ms. Jastremsky explained that it is not a Code designation. The Suncrest
Development Area Master Plan identified non-disturbed areas on plats to preserve wildlife
corridors, stands of vegetation, slope stability, and view corridors. The plats specify that they can
be modified based on approval by the Design Review Board. With the plat, they will take a small
portion from the non-disturbable area with the HOA being the authority on the original plat that
can grant approval to develop a non-buildable area.

Commissioner Tonks’ understanding was that they are truing up the property lines with what is
already occurring there. Ms. Jastremsky confirmed that that was the case and stated that there is
also parking in the area that the proposed change will address. The HOA will also be deeding
property back to the City in exchange. Mr. Millburn stated that although the same square footage
is not being exchanged, the HOA is donating its’ half of the existing parking lot to the City in
exchange for land that can be developed as a parking lot.

Chair Adams opened the public hearing. There were no public comments. The public
hearing was closed.

To Commissioner Tonks the proposal seemed to simply be adjusting property lines to reflect how
they have been used. Ultimately, she believed it benefits the City.
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
January 12, 2023
Page 6


Motion: Commissioner Tonks moved to APPROVE the Plat Amendment Application SUBD-214-2022,
as requested by Draper City for a City-Initiated Oak Vista No. 2 at Suncrest Lot 60 Second Amendment
Plat subject to the following:

Findings:

       1. There is good cause for the vacation or amendment; and no public street, right-of-
              way, or easement has been vacated or amended.

Conditions:

       1.     That all requirements of the Draper City Engineering, Public Works,
              Building, Planning, and Fire Divisions are satisfied throughout the
              development of the site and the construction of all buildings on the site,
              including permitting.

       2.     Address all outstanding redlines listed in Exhibit A of this staff report prior to
              plat recordation. Additional details on the outstanding redlines can be found
              in provided redlined drawings not included in this report, but available in the
              Draper Community Development Department for review.

       3.     If the plat amendment is not recorded within one (1) year from the date of
              approval such approval shall be null and void. This time period may be
              extended by the Planning Commission for up to one additional six (6) month
              period for good cause shown. The subdivider must petition in writing for an
              extension prior to the expiration of the original one (1) year.

Second: Commissioner Bingham.

Vote: A roll call was taken with the Commissioners voting 5-to-0 in favor of the motion.
Commissioners Ogden, Fowler, Tonks, Nixon, and Bingham voted, “Aye”.

       4.      Discussion Item: City Initiated Water Wise Landscaping and Site
               Amendments Ordinance (Work Session / Discussion Item)
       At the request of City Staff, the Draper City Planning Commission will hold a work session
       and discussion regarding the direction and expectations of the Planning Commission
       regarding potential changes to site development and design requirements including
       elements pertaining to water-wise landscaping.

Mr. Draper reported that in 2022, staff began to look at potential revisions to the ordinance to
incorporate water-wise landscaping elements based on changes that occurred in State Code and in
an effort to come into conformance with Jordan Valley Water Conservancy District (“JVWCD”)
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
January 12, 2023
Page 7


recommendations. He noted that there are landscaping regulations throughout the ordinance,
which is cumbersome. There are also various elements in the Landscape Ordinance that belong in
other chapters. The intent was to simplify and clarify the landscaping and site design provisions
because they are interrelated.

A draft was prepared by staff for Commission consideration. The intent was to move definitions
and terms out of individual chapters and into the Zoning Code Definitions Chapter. They would
like to add new definitions for additions to the ordinance to match the code that JVWCD provides.
They would also like to update some of the Landscape Plan submittal and site plan requirements
and move some building and site design standards that were listed in Chapter 23 into Chapter 22.
The desire was also to modify the formatting, update some of the graphics, remove some of the
provisions that were not enforceable, and reduce the time required to process an application.

Mr. Draper reviewed a series of policy questions:
   • How should the Landscape Ordinance treat the different development types? (i.e., residential,
       commercial, industrial, etc.) Should there be uniform standards for all?

With regard to perimeter landscaping and street trees, currently, the City requires street trees in
residential subdivisions but there is some ambiguity as to whether they are required for commercial
or industrial. Chair Adams commented that when dealing with commercial landscaping coverage
there seems to just be a percentage. Mr. Draper stated that the impetus behind the effort was to
conserve water. The City will soon be renegotiating its water rates with JVWCD. If the City has
not adopted certain portions of its standards, a higher rate will be charged. The push was a result
of the ordinance being geared toward commercial and industrial. Many on the commercial side
are seeking ease of maintenance and are not as concerned about cost. Some move to zeroscaping
or xeriscaping while others purchase less expensive plants.

Ms. Jastremsky commented that the Code for single-family currently requires only street trees.
The proposal would introduce a change. She noted that JVWCD’s model ordinance has limitations
on grass in front and back yards. There has been a push to eliminate grass in park strips. For
example, grass is not allowed in areas less than eight feet wide. For commercial, it was estimated
that 90% of developers would want to comply with Code.

The comment was made that commercial should have a completely different standard than
residential. There was agreement that grass should be prohibited in areas that are smaller than
eight feet wide. It was also suggested that some type of xeriscaping be incorporated into the plan.
The difference between zeroscaping and xeriscaping was discussed. Zeroscaping was described
as landscaping that consists only of rock. Xeriscaping is drought-tolerant landscaping that needs
very little water.

One Commissioner did not support verbiage granting zoning administrators limited exceptions and
felt that the Code should be clarified. Another question pertained to the blanket deviations
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
January 12, 2023
Page 8


currently permitted. Staff felt that should be tightened up and only allow for specific things. Ms.
Jastremsky explained that as the Zoning Administrator, she occasionally has public hearings. They
are held during the day but are properly noticed. She suggested that if there is a deviation in the
Code that it be very specific. Currently, the Landscape Chapter allows for a deviation request from
any standard. Commissioner Nixon did not like the flexibility of being able to ask for any
deviation, which could be perceived as arbitrary and capricious. She stressed the importance of
being specific.

   • What are your most important considerations for locating trash collection on a site?

Commissioner Nixon made a comment that in commercial areas, trash collection should take place
to the side or rear of a building. This was considered an important consideration in terms of
aesthetics. Mr. Draper stated that there are currently regulations on how trash collection areas
need to look but not much addressing where they are to be located. The consensus of the
Commission was that this was an important consideration.
    • Are there any specific uses or types of uses that you feel might need to be exempted from
        complying with landscaping?

Mr. Draper stated that currently, agricultural uses are exempt from this requirement. Agricultural
use could be construed to include agriculture-related businesses. The Commissioners were asked to
identify other uses that might need to be exempted. The various types of agricultural uses were
discussed.

   •   What expectations do you have with respect to preserving existing trees and vegetation on
       the site?

Trees were thought to be very beneficial. Chair Adams was of the opinion that the decision should
be left up to the developer. It was noted that a tree inventory could be taken and incorporated into
the site plan. Ms. Jastremsky commented that the Town Center Zone is strict in terms of what is
considered healthy. A property owner is expected to preserve the trees or replace them with trees
equaling the same number and with the same size caliper. She noted that it is difficult for most
developers to preserve trees. The City wants to keep good trees and the current Code encourages
the preservation of trees. That, however, is easier to accomplish on residential rather than
commercial properties.

Commissioner Nixon suggested that trees along frontages be non-fruit bearing to avoid fruit from
falling into the street and park strip. Ms. Jastremsky stated that the City has adopted a list from
the Tree Commission with approved street trees.

A question was raised as to whether there is a category on the tree list for higher-elevation trees.
Ms. Jastremsky confirmed that there was. She was unsure, however, if it took salt from snowplows
into account.
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
January 12, 2023
Page 9



   •     How much turf grass is enough and how much is too much? Should artificial turf be
         allowed?

Commissioner Tonks did not think artificial turf should be allowed. She stated that it does not last
forever and questioned at what point it needs to be replaced. Chairman Adams described a home
landscape he was familiar with that included artificial turf and sprinklers for washing it off. Water
conservation issues were discussed as well as artificial turf maintenance. If artificial turf were
allowed there would need to be specific regulations. Commissioner Nixon concurred.

   •     Should soil composition and nutrient testing be required?

Mr. Draper stated that the idea was that if the soil is tested before landscaping is installed the soil
can be amended with the correct nutrients to grow plants. The City could require the test and have
a landscape architect prepare a list of what soil amendments are needed. Some Commission
Members considered this to be micromanaging and overly stringent. The comment was made that
adding another requirement will not likely aid the homeowner. Mr. Draper stated that JVWCD’s
standards are not clear, and that removing the topsoil creates additional environmental impacts and
reduces the water-wise element. Amending the native soil is more environmentally beneficial and
water-wise.

   •     What amount of plant coverage in a landscape is acceptable? What amount of coverage
         by mulch or rock is acceptable?

Mr. Draper stated that most standards set this at 50% or 75% coverage. Support was expressed for
50% coverage at maturity. It was also recommended that clustering of landscaping be allowed.
Whether to allow for patterns with zeroscaping was discussed. Areas where it has and has not              Commented [SN1]: Is this supposed to be
worked were described. It was recommended that zeroscaping not be allowed due to potential                xeriscaping?
issues. Mr. Draper stated that in terms of how much properties should be landscaped, they                 Commented [SN2]: Is this suppoed to be
currently have a 20% minimum for commercial. Commissioner Nixon considered 20% to be high                 xeriscaping?

for commercial and preferred 10% to 15%.

   •     What expectations might you have for enforcement?

The comment was made that a commercial business will suffer financially if it is not aesthetically
pleasing. Currently, enforcement is done on a complaint basis. A review could also be conducted
at the time landscaping is installed to ensure that current Code requirements are met. An inspection
would also be done once the installation of landscaping is complete. Commissioner Nixon asked
if the City has the manpower to provide enforcement. Ms. Jastremsky explained that enforcement
City-wide is by complaint. The City inspects commercial, multi-family, and manufacturing
developments when the landscaping is first installed to ensure that it complies with the approved
plans. They do not verify that the plant species are the same as are shown on the plans and they
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
January 12, 2023
Page 10


do not check the irrigation when it goes in. The landscaping inspections are done up front and the
City has the manpower to perform them. Enforcement is difficult since they currently have only
one Code Enforcement Officer to serve the entire City. It was clarified that this individual provides
enforcement for not only landscaping but all Code violations.

Snow storage issues were discussed. It was noted that snow storage affects not only trees but
walkways and parking lots. Site and landscape designers should be cognizant of that when they
are planning projects. It may have an impact in cases where an area is to be used for both plants
and storage.

Commissioner Nixon suggested that a time limit be imposed on when snow must be cleared from
public sidewalks along commercial businesses. Ms. Jastremsky stated that there is likely a time
limit on public sidewalks but not walkways on the interior of a site.

     •   What requirements should apply to enclosures around mechanical equipment?

Currently, the Code specifies that the building colors and materials must match. This was
supported by a consensus of the Commission. The City requires masonry or concrete fencing.
Mr. Draper asked if those would be acceptable alternative materials. Commissioner Nixon
suggested that it be a solid fence. Other Commission Members agreed.

5.       Adjournment.

Motion: Commissioner Fowler moved to ADJOURN. The motion passed with the unanimous
consent of the Commission.

The meeting adjourned at 7:56 p.m.
