                              Development Review Committee
                                   1020 East Pioneer Road
                                     Draper, Utah 84020



                                      STAFF REPORT
                                       April 18, 2023

To:                 Draper City Planning Commission
                    Business Date: April 27, 2023

From:               Development Review Committee

Prepared By:        Maryann Pickering, AICP, Planner III
                    Planning Division
                    Community Development Department
                    (801) 576-6391 or maryann.pickering@draperutah.gov

Re:     Towne Storage Draper — Land Use and Zoning Map Amendments
        Application Nos.: TEXTMAP-008-2023 (Land Use) and TEXTMAP-001-2023
                          (Zoning)
        Applicant:        Gary Free, representing Via Digital Solutions
        Project Location: Approximately 11761 and 11757 S. 700 East
        Current Zoning:   CN (Neighborhood Commercial)
        Acreage:          Approximately 2.38 acres (approximately 103,672.8 sq ft)
        Request:          Amend the land use designation from Neighborhood Commercial
                          to Community Commercial and rezone the property from CN
                          (Neighborhood Commercial) to CG (General Commercial).



SUMMARY and BACKGROUND
This application is a request for approval for land use and zoning map amendments for
approximately 2.38 acres located on the east side of 700 East, at approximately 11761 and
11757 S. 700 East (Exhibits B and C). The property is currently zoned CN. The applicant is
requesting that the land use and zoning map amendments are approved to allow for a
personal self-storage facility on the two properties.




Towne Storage Draper                                        Apps. # TEXTMAP-008-2023 and
Land Use and Zoning Map Amendments           1                          TEXTMAP-001-2023
The property was rezoned in 2020 with the intent of building an office building on site. The
construction of the office building has not occurred and that applicant is planning to sell
the property. The current applicant, Gary Free, needs the site rezoned and the land use
changed in order to allow for a self-storage facility to be considered in the future. Self-
storage facilities are not a permitted or conditional use in the CN zone. They are a
conditional use in the CG zone. Both zones have a maximum height of 35 feet. Exhibit H
shows all permitted, conditional and not permitted uses for the current CN zone and the
proposed CG zone.



ANALYSIS
General Plan and Zoning.

 Table 1                 General Plan and Zoning Designations                     Exhibit
 Current Land Use        Neighborhood Commercial                                  Exhibit D
 Current Zoning          CN (Neighborhood Commercial)                             Exhibit E
 Proposed Use            Self-Storage Facility
 Adjacent Zoning
    East                 RA1 (Single Family Residential)
    West                 CN (across 700 East)
    North                RA1
    South                R3 (Single Family Residential)

The Neighborhood Commercial land use designation is characterized as follows:




Towne Storage Draper                                         Apps. # TEXTMAP-008-2023 and
Land Use and Zoning Map Amendments              2                        TEXTMAP-001-2023
According to Draper City Municipal Code (DCMC) Section 9-8-020 the purpose of the CN
zone is to “provide areas where convenience buying outlets, having small trade areas, may
be established to serve surrounding residential neighborhoods. This zone is intended to
promote a combination of retail and service facilities which, in character and scale, meet
day to day needs of nearby residents.”

The zoning and land use map amendments would change the current maps to allow the
self-storage facility to be built. The proposed land use for the property is Community
Commercial. The Community Commercial land use designation is characterized as follows:




Towne Storage Draper                                         Apps. # TEXTMAP-008-2023 and
Land Use and Zoning Map Amendments           3                           TEXTMAP-001-2023
The proposed zoning designation for the self-storage facility is CG. Per DCMC Section 9-8-
020, the purpose of the CG zone is to “provide areas to accommodate commercial uses
which are not within shopping centers of integrated design. This zone is intended to apply
to existing "strip commercial" developments. The zone should not be used for new
commercial development unless integrated shopping center development is not practical
or desirable because of difficult size, shape, topography, or similar problems related to
land otherwise deemed to be appropriate for commercial use. Typical uses in this zone
include offices, retail stores, personal services, heavy commercial, and institutional uses.”

Criteria For Approval.
A Zoning Map Amendment is a matter committed to the legislative discretion of the City
Council and is not controlled by any one standard. However, in making a recommendation
to the City Council, the Planning Commission should consider the following factors in
Section 9-5-060(E) of the DCMC:




Towne Storage Draper                                          Apps. # TEXTMAP-008-2023 and
Land Use and Zoning Map Amendments            4                           TEXTMAP-001-2023
1.      Map Amendments:
        a.   Whether the proposed amendment is consistent with goals, objectives and
             policies of the city's general plan;
        b.   Whether the proposed amendment is harmonious with the overall character
             of existing development in the vicinity of the subject property;
        c.   Whether the proposed amendment is consistent with the standards of any
             applicable overlay zone;
        d.   The extent to which the proposed amendment may adversely affect adjacent
             property; and
        e.   The adequacy of facilities and services intended to serve the subject
             property, including, but not limited to, roadways, parks and recreation
             facilities, police and fire protection, schools, stormwater drainage systems,
             water supplies, and wastewater and refuse collection.

The Land Use Map amendment request falls under DCMC Section 9-2-020(F) because the
Land Use Map is part of Draper City’s General Plan. That section lists the following criteria
for a General Plan amendment as:

        Plan Amendment: All plan amendments shall be in accordance with Utah Code
        Annotated 10-9a-404, as amended and, unless requested by the city's legislative
        body, shall follow the procedures as outlined in Draper City Municipal Code 9-5-
        060(D).” That section is noted as follows:

        D.      Procedure: Zoning text and map amendments shall be considered and
                processed as provided in this subsection:
                1.    A complete application shall be submitted to the office of the zoning
                      administrator in a form established by the administrator along with
                      any fee established by the city’s schedule of fees. The application
                      shall include at least the following information:
                      a.      The name, address and telephone number of the applicant
                              and the applicant’s agent, if any.
                      b.      The name and address of every person or company the
                              applicant represents.
                      c.      The requested amendment and reasons supporting the
                              request.
                      d.      If the proposed amendment requires a change in the zoning
                              map, the application shall include:
                              (1)     An accurate property map showing present and
                                      proposed zoning classifications;
                              (2)     All abutting properties showing present zoning
                                      classifications; and
                              (3)     An accurate legal description and an approximate
                                      common address of the area proposed to be rezoned.


Towne Storage Draper                                          Apps. # TEXTMAP-008-2023 and
Land Use and Zoning Map Amendments            5                           TEXTMAP-001-2023
                        e.      If the proposed amendment requires a change in the text of
                                this title, the application shall include chapter and section
                                references and a draft of the proposed text.
                2.      After the application is determined to be complete, the zoning
                        administrator shall prepare a staff report evaluating the application.
                3.      The planning commission shall schedule and hold a public hearing on
                        the application as provided in sections 9-5-040 and 9-5-045 of this
                        chapter. Following the public meeting, the planning commission shall
                        recommend approval, approval with modifications, or denial of the
                        proposed amendment and shall submit its recommendation to the
                        city council for review and decision.
                4.      The city council shall schedule and hold a public hearing on the
                        application as provided in sections 9-5-040 and 9-5-045 of this
                        chapter. Following the public hearing, the city council may approve,
                        approve with modifications, or deny the proposed amendment.


REVIEWS
Planning Division Review. The Draper City Planning Division has completed their review of
the zoning and land use map amendments submission. Comments from the Division, if
any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Building Division Review. The Draper City Building Division has completed their review of
the zoning and land use map amendments submission. Comments from the Division, if
any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Engineering and Public Works Divisions Review. The Draper City Engineering and Public
Works Divisions has completed their review of the zoning and land use map amendments
submission. Comments from the Division, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Fire Division Review. The Draper City Fire has completed their review of the zoning and
land use map amendments submission. Comments from the Division, if any, can be found
in Exhibit A.

Legal Review. The Draper City Attorney has completed their review of the zoning and land
use map amendments submission. Comments from the Division, if any, can be found in
Exhibit A.

Noticing. Notice has been properly issued in the manner outlined in the City and State
Codes.




Towne Storage Draper                                           Apps. # TEXTMAP-008-2023 and
Land Use and Zoning Map Amendments              6                          TEXTMAP-001-2023
STAFF RECOMMENDATION
Staff recommends that the Planning Commission review the request, receive public
comment, and make a decision based on the findings listed below and the criteria for
approval, or denial, as listed within the staff report.

The findings for approval are as follows:

1.      The proposed amendment is consistent with the goals, objectives and policies of the
        city's general plan;
2.      The proposed amendment is harmonious with the overall character of existing
        development in the vicinity of the subject property;
3.      The proposed amendment is consistent with the standards of any applicable overlay
        zone;
4.      The proposed amendment should not adversely affect adjacent property;
5.      The facilities and services intended to serve the subject property, including, but not
        limited to, roadways, parks and recreation facilities, police and fire protection,
        schools, stormwater drainage systems, water supplies, and wastewater and refuse
        collection, are adequate; and
6.      The proposed land use map amendment complies with DCMC Sections 9-2-020(F)
        and 9-5-060(D).

The findings for denial are as follows:

1.      The proposed amendment is not consistent with the goals, objectives and policies of
        the city's general plan;
2.      The proposed amendment is not harmonious with the overall character of existing
        development in the vicinity of the subject property;
3.      The proposed amendment is not consistent with the standards of any applicable
        overlay zone;
4.      The proposed amendment is likely to adversely affect adjacent property;
5.      The facilities and services intended to serve the subject property, including, but not
        limited to, roadways, parks and recreation facilities, police and fire protection,
        schools, stormwater drainage systems, water supplies, and wastewater and refuse
        collection, are inadequate; and
6.      The proposed land use map amendment does not comply with DCMC Sections 9-2-
        020(F) and 9-5-060(D).



MODEL MOTIONS
Land Use Map Amendment
Sample Motion for Approval – I move that we forward a positive recommendation to the
City Council for the Towne Storage Draper Land Use Map Amendment, as requested by



Towne Storage Draper                                          Apps. # TEXTMAP-008-2023 and
Land Use and Zoning Map Amendments            7                           TEXTMAP-001-2023
Gary Free, representing Via Digital Solutions, application TEXTMAP-008-2023 based on the
findings and subject to the conditions listed in the Staff Report dated April 18, 2023.

Sample Motion for Modified Approval – I move that we forward a positive recommendation
to the City Council for the Towne Storage Draper Land Use Map Amendment, as requested
by Gary Free, representing Via Digital Solutions, application TEXTMAP-008-2023 based on
the findings and subject to the conditions listed in the Staff Report dated April 18, 2023 and
as modified by the findings and conditions below:

        1.      List any additional findings and conditions . . .

Sample Motion for Denial – I move that we forward a negative recommendation to the City
Council for the Towne Storage Draper Land Use Map Amendment, as requested by Gary
Free, representing Via Digital Solutions, application TEXTMAP-008-2023 based on the
findings and subject to the conditions listed in the Staff Report dated April 18, 2023.

Zoning Map Amendment
Sample Motion for Approval – I move that we forward a positive recommendation to the
City Council for the Towne Storage Draper Land Use Map Amendment, as requested by
Gary Free, representing Via Digital Solutions, application TEXTMAP-001-2023 based on the
findings and subject to the conditions listed in the Staff Report dated April 18, 2023.

Sample Motion for Modified Approval – I move that we forward a positive recommendation
to the City Council for the Towne Storage Draper Land Use Map Amendment, as requested
by Gary Free, representing Via Digital Solutions, application TEXTMAP-001-2023 based on
the findings and subject to the conditions listed in the Staff Report dated April 18, 2023 and
as modified by the findings and conditions below:

        1.      List any additional findings and conditions . . .

Sample Motion for Denial – I move that we forward a negative recommendation to the City
Council for the Towne Storage Draper Land Use Map Amendment, as requested by Gary
Free, representing Via Digital Solutions, application TEXTMAP-001-2023 based on the
findings and subject to the conditions listed in the Staff Report dated April 18, 2023.




Towne Storage Draper                                                Apps. # TEXTMAP-008-2023 and
Land Use and Zoning Map Amendments               8                              TEXTMAP-001-2023
               DEVELOPMENT REVIEW COMMITTEE ACKNOWLEDGEMENT

We, the undersigned, as duly appointed members of the Draper City Development Review
Committee, do acknowledge that the application which provides the subject for this staff
report has been reviewed by the Committee and has been found to be appropriate for
review by the Draper City Planning Commission and/or City Council.



                    Digitally signed by Brien Maxfield
                    DN: C=US,                                                                    Digitally signed by Keith Collier
                    E=brien.maxfield@draperutah.gov,
   Brien Maxfield   O=Draper, OU=Public Works -
                    Engineering, CN=Brien Maxfield                         Keith Collier
                                                                                                 DN: C=US, E=keith.collier@draperutah.gov,
                                                                                                 O=Draper City, OU=Building Official,
                                                                                                 CN=Keith Collier
                    Date: 2023.04.18 16:48:54-06'00'                                             Date: 2023.04.18 10:10:55-06'00'


Draper City Public Works Division                                         Draper City Building Division


                                                                                                 Digitally signed by Jennifer Jastremsky
                    Digitally signed by Don Buckley                                              DN: C=US, E=jennifer.jastremsky@draperutah.gov,


Don Buckley         DN: C=US, E=don.buckley@draper.ut.us, O=Draper City
                    Fire Department, OU=Fire Marshal, CN=Don Buckley      Jennifer Jastremsky    O=Planning Division, OU=Draper City, CN=Jennifer
                                                                                                 Jastremsky
                    Date: 2023.04.18 10:37:08-06'00'                                             Date: 2023.04.18 09:56:47-06'00'



Draper City Fire Department                                               Draper City Planning Division



                                                                          Mike Barker      Digitally signed by Mike Barker
                                                                                           Date: 2023.04.18 09:32:07 -06'00'


                                                                          Draper City Legal Counsel
                                    EXHIBIT A
                               DEPARTMENT REVIEWS

REVIEWS ARE NOT MEANT TO BE AN ALL INCLUSIVE LIST OF POSSIBLE COMMENTS OR
CONDITIONS.

Planning Division Review.
No additional comments provided.

Building Division Review.
No additional comments provided.

Engineering and Public Works Divisions Review.
No additional comments provided.

Fire Division Review.
No additional comments provided.
  EXHIBIT B
VICINITY MAP
 EXHIBIT C
AERIAL MAP
  EXHIBIT D
LAND USE MAP
 EXHIBIT E
ZONING MAP
    EXHIBIT F
PUBLIC COMMENTS
Maryann Pickering

From:                            D A BOUTCHYARD <lildogs1@msn.com>
Sent:                            Monday, April 17, 2023 6:59 PM
To:                              Maryann Pickering
Subject:                         Towne Storage Draper




I am writing to you concerning the proposed storage unit's going in at a 11761 S. 700 E .

This is a terrible idea for our area. I live in the Sunset Ponds subdivision and this would bring a bad element
into our neighborhood .

Please reconsider the use for this property.

I'm sure there are many more positive uses this area would welcome.

Sincerely
Deb Boutchyard


Sent from my Galaxy




                                                         1
       EXHIBIT G
APPLICANT’S INFORMAITON
Draper City planning and zoning

RE: Application for General Plan Amendment by Towne Storage



Zoning Map Amendment

1. What is the requested General Plan Amendment designation? NC to CC

2. Please explain the reason for the request and the justification for approval. The desired two-level
building design, site are configuration and architectural appeal Towne Storage is planning, is best
accomplished in the CG zone and the land use CC.

3. How is the requested land use designation harmonious with the overall character of existing
development in the vicinity of the subject property? Explain. The proposed zoning allows for two level
low intensity commercial. Very similar professional office buildings are located directly across the street.
The proposed Self Storage Facility will one of the best uses for this neighborhood considering 1) it is an
appealing architectural designed structure. 2) of all the possible uses in the CG zone, this two-level
storage design has a remarkably a low traffic volume. Typically, traffic counts are a small fraction of
other uses allowed in the zone. Daily traffic counts can be Three to 15 visits per day. This provides an
excellent buffer for area which are residential.

4. Is the proposed land use designation consistent with the goals, objectives, and policies of the City’s
General Plan? Explain. The proposed land use designation CC by bring a two-level architecture class A
Self Storage structure to this neighborhood. This will facilitate a compatible use in the following ways. 1)
one limited access point 2) extremely low traffic visits and traffic impact to the neighborhood. 3) Self
Storage is primarily used by residential neighborhoods which are growing in demand with the trend of
multi family development within a three-mile radius. 4) provides an excellent buffer and transition
between existing and future residential and commercial uses.
Draper City planning and zoning

RE: Application for zoning change from CN to CG by Towne Storage



Zoning Map Amendment

1. What is the requested zoning designation? CN to CG

2. Please explain the reason for the request and the justification for approval. The desired two-level
building design, site are configuration and architectural appeal Towne Storage is planning is best
accomplished in the CG zone.

3. How is the requested zoning designation harmonious with the overall character of existing
development in the vicinity of the subject property? Explain. The proposed zoning allows for two level
low intensity commercial. Very similar professional office buildings are located directly across the street.
The proposed Self Storage Facility will one of the best uses for this neighborhood considering 1) it is an
appealing architectural designed structure. 2) of all the possible uses in the CG zone, this two-level
storage design has a remarkably a low traffic volume. Typically, traffic counts are a small fraction of
other uses allowed in the zone. Daily traffic counts can be Three to 15 visits per day. This provides an
excellent buffer for area which are residential.

4. Are facilities and services, such as roadways and utilities, sufficient to serve the property under the
proposed zoning? Explain. There is a storm drainage system in the rear of the property and other
utilities are available at 700 East Street. The exceptional low traffic generated by self-storage will be a
welcome use for this neighborhood.

5. Is the proposed zoning designation consistent with the goals, objectives, and policies of the City’s
General Plan? Explain. We are proposing a general land use Amendment which is addressed in the
separate application.
           EXHIBIT H
USE TABLE FOR CN AND CG ZONES
9-11-110: USE AND DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS TABLES:
TABLE 9-11-1
PERMITTED AND CONDITIONAL USES ALLOWED IN COMMERCIAL ZONES
(Except CSD Zones)

                                   Uses                           Zones
                                                             CN           CG
Residential uses:
   Assisted living facility                                  P            P
   Dwelling, multiple- family                                NP           NP
   Dwelling, single- family                                  NP           NP
                                                             See Chapter 34
   Home occupations
                                                               of this Title
   Residential facility for elderly persons                  NP           NP
   Residential facility for persons with a disability        P            P
Public and civic uses:
   Auditorium, major                                         NP           NP
   Auditorium, minor                                         NP           NP
   Charter schools                                           P            P
   Church or place of worship                                P            P
   Club or service organization                              P            NP
   Cultural service                                          P            P
   Government service                                        P            P
   Higher education facility, private                        NP           C
   Higher education facility, public                         P            P
   Hospital                                                  NP           NP
   Private school                                            C            C
   Protective service                                        P            P
   Public school                                             P            P
                                                             See Chapter 36
   Public utility substation
                                                               of this Title
   Reception center                                          NP           P
   Trade/vocational school                                   NP           C
   Utility, minor                                            P            P
Municipal uses:
   Franchise Municipal uses                                  P            P
   Municipal uses                                            P            P
Commercial uses:
   Auto, truck, RV, and equipment storage                    NP           C
   Bank or financial institution                             P            P
Bar establishment4                                P    P
Bed and breakfast inns                            P    NP
Business equipment rental and supplies            NP   P
Business service                                  NP   P
Car wash                                          NP   NP
Cashing services                                  NP   NP
Cattery                                           NP   C
Commercial vehicle and equipment rental or sale   NP   P
Commercial vehicle and equipment repair           NP   C
Construction sales and service                    NP   C
Convenience store                                 P    P
Daycare, general                                  P    P
Farmers' market                                   P    P
Funeral home                                      P    P
Garage, public                                    NP   P
Gas and fuel, storage and sales                   NP   P
Gasoline service station                          P    P
Grooming service                                  P    P
Hotel                                             NP   P
Kennel                                            NP   C
Laundry and dry cleaning, limited                 P    P
Laundry service                                   P    P
Media service                                     NP   P
Medical cannabis pharmacy                         P    P
Medical or dental laboratory                      NP   P
Medical service                                   P    P
Motel or motor lodge                              NP   P
Nursery                                           NP   P
Office, general                                   P    P
Office, warehouse                                 NP   P
Parking, commercial                               NP   P
Personal care service                             P    P
Personal instruction service                      P    P
Precious metals and gems dealer                   NP   P
Preschool, general                                P    P
Printing and photocopying, limited                P    P
Printing, general                                 NP   P
Recreation and entertainment, indoor              NP   P
     Recreation and entertainment, outdoor                                            NP             C
     Recycling collection station                                                      P             P
     Repair service                                                                   NP             P
     Research service                                                                 NP             P
     Restaurant                                                                        P             P
     Retail, general                                                                   P             P
     Secondhand or thrift store, large, with no outside storage and no
                                                                                      NP             P
     drop off of items during hours the business is closed
     Secondhand or thrift store, small                                                 P             P
     Tattoo establishment                                                             NP             P
     Transportation service                                                           NP             C
     Vehicle rental                                                                   NP             P
     Vehicle repair, general                                                          NP             C
     Vehicle repair, limited                                                          NP             C
     Vehicle sales                                                                    NP             P
     Veterinary service                                                                P   7
                                                                                                     P
     Warehouse, self- service storage                                                 NP             C
                                                                                       See Chapter 41
     Wireless telecommunication facility
                                                                                         of this Title
 Manufacturing uses:
     Manufacturing, limited                                                           NP             C
     Wholesale and warehousing, limited                                               NP             C
P = Permitted
C = Conditional Use
NP = Not Permitted

Notes:
    1.   Subject to the provisions of Section 9-11-090 of this chapter.
    2.   Limited to no more than 1 drive-through lane.
    3.   In existing historic structures only.
    4.   Subject to the alcohol provisions per title 6, chapter 4 of this Code.
    5.   Without gasoline sales.
    6.   Only on the corner of Bangerter Highway.
    7.   With no kennel services.
    8.   No outdoor kennels or catteries.
    9.   Limited to no more than 15 students.

(Ord. 1345, 9-18-2018; amd. Ord. 1394, 6-18-2019; Ord. 1419, 1-14-2020; Ord. 1418, 1-21-2020; Ord. 1438, 5-19-2020; Ord. 1447,
8-4-2020; Ord. 1464, 11-17-2020; Ord. 1516, 12-14-2021)
