NovusAGENDA
CITY COUNCIL AGENDA June 20, 2023 at 6:00 PM
1020 E. Pioneer Rd. Draper, UT 84020 Council Chambers 6:00 PM STUDY MEETING 1. Jenson Farm Park Final Plan - Rhett Ogden a 2. Council/Manager Reports a 3. Closed Session: By Motion The Draper City Council may temporarily recess the regular meeting and convene in a closed session to discuss the character, professional competence, or physical or mental health of an individual, pending or reasonably imminent litigation, or the purchase, exchange, or lease of real property, as provided by UCA 52-4-205. a 7:00 PM    BUSINESS MEETING 1. Call to Order 2. Thought/Prayer and Pledge of Allegiance 3. Recognition: Miss Draper Rodeo Queens a 4. Public Comments To be considerate of everyone attending the meeting, public comments will be restricted to items that are not listed on this or a future agenda and limited to three minutes per person. Comments which cannot be made within these limits should be submitted in writing to the City Recorder prior to noon the day before the meeting. Comments pertaining to an item on the agenda should not be given at this time but should be held until that item is called. 5. Consent Items a. Approval of June 6, 2023 City Council Meeting Minutes. b. Approval of Resolution #23-28 A Resolution approving an Interlocal Agreement with Salt Lake County and Other Cities Regarding Grant Programs Administered by U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD).  Staff: David Dobbins c. Approval of Resolution #23-29 A Resolution reappointing Craig Hawker and Mary Squire as a member of the Draper City Planning Commission. d. Approval of Resolution #23-30 A Resolution reappointing Doug Vawdrey and Walt Roseman to the Draper City Special Event Arena Committee.  e. Approval of Resolution #23-31 A Resolution adopting the 2023 Fraud Risk Assessment for the City of Draper. Staff: John Vuyk f. Approval of Resolution #23-32 A Resolution reappointing Brad Gilson to the Board of Trustees of the South Salt Lake Valley Mosquito Abatement District.  6. Public Hearing: Ordinance #1583 An Ordinance approving a text amendment to Titles 9 and 17 of Draper City Municipal Code in order to amend regulations regarding definitions, site plan review, site design, landscaping including water-wise landscaping, screening, parking area design, outdoor storage and display, improvement completion assurances, and related subdivision requirements, otherwise known as the City Initiated Water-Wise Landscaping and Site Amendments Text Amendment. Staff report by Todd Draper. a 7. Action Item: Resolution #23-33 A Resolution of the Draper City Council acting as the governing body of the Traverse Ridge Special Service District adopting and certifying a tax rate for the 2024 taxable year. Staff report by John Vuyk. a 8. Public Hearing: Ordinance #1585 An Ordinance adopting the Budget including Compensation Schedules and adopting the Certified Tax Rate for Fiscal Year 2023-2024.  Staff report by John Vuyk. a 9. Recess to a Draper City Community Reinvestment Agency Meeting a 10. Adjournment SALT LAKE COUNTY AND UTAH COUNTY, STATE OF UTAH I, the City Recorder of Draper City, certify that copies of the agenda for the Draper City Council meeting to be held June 20, 2023 , were posted at Draper City Hall, Draper City website www.draperutah.gov , and the Utah Public Notice website at www.utah.gov/pmn . Date Posted: June 16, 2023 Laura Oscarson, CMC, City Recorder  Draper City, State of Utah   In compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act, any individuals needing special accommodations or services during this meeting shall notify Laura Oscarson, City Recorder at (801) 576-6502 or laura.oscarson@draperutah.gov , at least 24 hours prior to the meeting.