                                   Development Review Committee
                                        1020 East Pioneer Road
                                          Draper, UT 84020
                                            August 15, 2023

To:               Draper City Planning Commission
                  Business Date: August 24, 2023

From:             Development Review Committee

Prepared By: Tevai Haunga, Planner I
             Planning Division
             Community Development Department
             801-576-6522, tevai.haunga@draperutah.gov

Re:      G Mobile Auto Repair – Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit Request
         Application No.:  USE-062-2023
         Applicant:        Grant Pollock
         Project Location: 13454 S. Lone Peak Lane
         Current Zoning:   RA1 (Single Family Residential 40,000 ft2 minimum area)
         Acreage:          1.0 Acres (Approximately 43,560 ft2)
         Request:          Request for approval of a Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit
                           in the RA1 zone for an office conducting mobile auto repair.


BACKGROUND AND SUMMARY
This application is a request for approval of a Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit for
approximately 1.0 acres located on the south side 13400 S. at approximately 13545 S. Lone
Peak Lane (Exhibit B & C). The property is currently zoned RA1. The applicant is requesting that
a Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit be approved for a home office to conduct a mobile
business. This mobile business will do automotive repairs at customer’s homes or place of work.

The property is part of the Corner Creek Estates subdivision and the home was built in 1990.


ANALYSIS

General Plan and Zoning.

 Table 1                     General Plan and Zoning Designations                    Exhibit
 Existing Land Use           Residential Low/ Medium Density                         Exhibit D
 Current Zoning              RA1                                                     Exhibit E
 Proposed Use                Single-family Home with a Home Based Business
 Adjacent Zoning
     East                    RA1



G Mobile Auto Repair                                                     App. # USE-062-2023
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit             1
     West                    RA1
     North                   RA1
     South                   RA1

The Residential Low-Medium Density land use designation is characterized as follows:




According to Draper City Municipal Code (DCMC) Section 9-8-020 the purpose of the purpose of
the R3 zone is to “provide incentives to foster residential development with little impact on
its surroundings and on municipal services, and to generally preserve the semirural
character called for in the density element of the general plan. ”

Home Occupation. The applicant is requesting a Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit to
have a home office for a mobile business. The business will operate as a mobile auto mechanic
business. The van is equipped with tools to perform mechanical repairs like oil changes, brakes,



G Mobile Auto Repair                                                    App. # USE-062-2023
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit         2
belts and other various engine repairs. The DCMC Section 9-34-040 outlines development
standards applicable to all home occupations. Those criteria, along with information specific to
the subject request, are as follows:

         A. Ownership: The home occupation shall be owned and operated by a person who
              resides in the dwelling where the home occupation is located. Such person shall be
              the primary provider of the labor, work, or service provided in the home occupation.

              -The applicant resides in the home and will be the primary provider of all duties
              associated with the business.

         B. Business License: A business license for the home occupation shall be obtained from
            and continually maintained with the city pursuant to title 6, chapter 11 of this code.

              -A current business license will be maintained with the City of Draper.

         C. Employees: Members of the family of the owner who reside in the dwelling may be
              employed in the home occupation. Nonfamily or nonresident employees shall be
              limited to one person.

              -The applicant will be the only person involved in the business and understands that
              going forward he may only employ one non family member or non-resident if the
              need arises.

         D. Inspection: All facilities shall comply with fire, building, plumbing, electrical and all
              other city, county, state and federal codes. Inspections during reasonable hours by
              city officials may occur as necessary to assure compliance with regulations.

              -The applicant will perform only office duties from the home and will comply with all
              appropriate codes and safety needs.

         E. Inventory: No stock in trade, inventory, or other merchandise to exceed two
              hundred fifty (250) square feet shall be kept on the premises. No outside storage is
              allowed.

              -The applicant agrees to store any inventory and merchandise inside and can take
              no more than 250 sq ft. to do so and outside storage is not allowed.

         F. Modification Of Structures Or Yards: There shall be no visible evidence from the
              exterior of a dwelling that it is being used for any other purpose than that of a
              dwelling. No activities shall be carried on outside the dwelling in the yard for the
              benefit of or incidental to the home occupation. No front yard area shall be altered
              to provide parking required for a home occupation.

              -The applicant will not make any modifications to the property to benefit the
              business. The applicant understands that no business activities are to be carried
              outside of the dwelling.




G Mobile Auto Repair                                                          App. # USE-062-2023
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit              3
         G. Nuisance: Tools, items, equipment, or activities conducted within the dwelling which
              is offensive or noxious by reason of the emission of odor, smoke, gas, vibration,
              magnetic interference, or noise shall be prohibited.

              -The applicant will be doing office work in the home and performing duties at other
              locations other than the home. The applicant will not be causing any nuisances.

         H. Secondary Use: The home occupation shall be clearly incidental and secondary to
              the primary use of the dwelling for residential purposes. The home occupation shall
              not disrupt the normal residential character of the neighborhood in which the
              residence is located. Not more than twenty five percent (25%) of the dwelling unit
              shall be used for the home occupation.

              -The primary purpose of this dwelling is and will be for residential purposes.

         I. Signs: All signage in a residential area must comply with chapter 26, "Signs", of this
            title.

              -The applicant is requesting signage for their work vehicle.

         J. Traffic, Parking, And Access: No home occupation use shall generate pedestrian,
              parking, or vehicular traffic in excess of that customarily associated with the zone in
              which the use is located. All parking shall be provided and maintained on site with
              adequate provision for drop off traffic.

              -The applicant will not be generating any additional traffic and will be parking the
              work van in the driveway of the home. Besides office work, all services will be
              performed outside of the residence.

         K. Vehicles: Other than the business owner's personal transportation, there shall be no
              vehicles or equipment on the property associated with the home occupation which
              would not normally be found at a residence. No signage for the home occupation
              shall be allowed on vehicles.

              -No additional vehicles will be at the property other than those that would be
              normally found on the property. The applicant will comply with signage rules.

         L. Yards: Yards surrounding the dwelling and accessory buildings shall not be used for
            any activities or storage of any materials associated with the home occupation.

              -The applicant understands that accessory buildings and yard area to store any
              business related materials or used for business activities is not allowed. He will
              comply.

         M. Customers: No customers allowed. Children accessing a limited daycare or limited
            preschool facility shall not be considered customers.

              -The applicant will not have any customers come to property.




G Mobile Auto Repair                                                         App. # USE-062-2023
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit             4
         N. Utility Demand: The home occupation shall not cause a demand for public utilities in
            excess of that necessarily and customarily provided for residential uses.

              -The home occupation will not excessively demand public utilities.

         O. Main Structure: The home occupations shall be conducted, located, and contained
            within the primary structure on the property.

              -Since this is a mobile business, this only pertains to storage of supplies and
              business vehicle, which will all be properly contained on the property.

         P. Single-Family And Multiple-Family Dwellings: Home occupations listed as permitted
              or conditional within this title may be permitted in a single-family or a multiple-family
              dwelling, subject to the standards found within this section and section 9-34-060 of
              this chapter. Businesses within multiple-family dwellings shall provide an approval
              letter from the respective homeowners' association, or management company in the
              case of apartments, if the business proposes any employees, customers or business
              vehicles.

              -The home occupation is in a single-family dwelling

         Q. Licensure: Any home occupation involving childcare shall comply with all applicable
              state and local laws and regulations regarding residential childcare, including, but
              not limited to, provisions of the Utah child care licensing act, as set forth in Utah
              Code Annotated section 26-39-101 et seq., as amended, and the residential
              certificate childcare standards as set forth in the Utah administrative code section
              R430-50-1 et seq., as amended. In addition, cottage food production operations are
              regulated and inspected by the Utah department of agriculture. Any food related
              home occupation under their jurisdiction must comply with these regulations.

              -This home business does not include childcare or food handling.

Criteria For Approval.

The criteria for review and potential approval of a conditional use permit request is found in
Section 9-5-080(E) of the DCMC. This section depicts the standard of review for such requests
as:

         E. Approval Standards: The standards of this subsection shall apply to the issuance of a
             conditional use permit:
          1. A conditional use permit may be issued for a use to be located within a zone where
             the particular conditional use is allowed by the use regulations of the zone.
          2. Reasonable conditions may be imposed as necessary to substantially mitigate
             reasonably anticipated detrimental effects of the proposed use. These conditions
             may include conditions concerning use, construction, character, location,
             landscaping, screening, parking, hours of operation, and other matters relating to




G Mobile Auto Repair                                                         App. # USE-062-2023
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit              5
             the purposes and objectives of this section. Such conditions shall be expressly set
             forth in the motion authorizing the conditional use permit.
          3. If the reasonably anticipated detrimental effects of a proposed conditional use
             cannot be substantially mitigated by the imposition of reasonable conditions to
             achieve compliance with applicable standards, the conditional use may be denied.
          4. The following factors shall be reviewed and considered in determining whether a
             conditional use permit application should be approved, approved with conditions, or
             denied because reasonable conditions cannot be imposed to achieve compliance
             with applicable standards:
              a. The harmony and compliance of the proposed use with the objectives and
                 requirements of the city's general plan and this title;
              b. The suitability of the specific property for the proposed use;
              c. Whether the proposed use or facility may be injurious to potential or existing
                 development in the vicinity;
              d. The economic impact of the proposed facility or use on the surrounding area;
              e. The aesthetic impact of the proposed facility or use on the surrounding area;
              f. The safeguards proposed or provided to ensure adequate utilities, transportation
                 access, drainage, parking, loading space, lighting, screening, landscaping, open
                 space, fire protection, and pedestrian and vehicular circulation;
              g. The safeguards provided or proposed to prevent noxious or offensive emissions
                 such as noise, glare, dust, pollutants and odor from the proposed facility or use;
                 and
              h. The impact of the proposed facility or use on the health, safety, and welfare of
                 the city, the area, and persons owning or leasing property in the area.
          5. The planning commission may request additional information as may be reasonably
             needed to determine whether the requirements of this subsection E can be met.


REVIEWS

Planning Division Review. The Draper City Planning Division has completed their review of the
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit submission. Comments from this division, if any, can
be found in Exhibit A.

Engineering and Public Works Divisions Review. The Draper City Engineering and Public Works
Divisions have completed their reviews of the Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit
submission. Comments from these divisions, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Building Division Review. The Draper City Building Division has completed their review of the
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit submission. Comments from this division, if any, can
be found in Exhibit A.

Fire Division Review. The Draper City Fire Marshal has completed his review of the Home
Occupation Conditional Use Permit.


STAFF RECOMMENDATION
Staff recommends that the Planning Commission review the request based on the findings listed




G Mobile Auto Repair                                                       App. # USE-062-2023
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit            6
below and the criteria for approval, or denial as listed within the staff report. The Planning
Commission should also review the request, hear from the applicant, and receive public
comment prior to making a decision.

If the Planning Commission decides to approve the request, staff recommends they include the
following conditions of approval:

         1.       That all business requirements of the Draper City Engineering, Public Works
                  Building, Business Licensing, Planning and Fire Divisions are satisfied throughout
                  the operation of the business.
         2.       A business license shall be maintained for the life of the business.
         3.       Customers are not allowed to come to the property.
         4.       Only one business vehicle is allowed to be stored on the property.

The findings for approval as are follows:

         1. Reasonable mitigation measures can be placed on the conditional use to alleviate
            anticipated detrimental effects.

The findings for denial as are follows:
       1. Reasonable mitigation measures cannot be placed on the conditional use to alleviate
           anticipated detrimental effects.


MODEL MOTIONS

Sample Motion for Approval – I move that we approve the Home Occupation Conditional Use
Permit, as requested by Grant Pollock, representing application USE-062-2023 based on the
findings and subject to the conditions listed in the Staff Report dated August 15, 2023.

Sample Motion for Modified Approval– I move that we approve the Home Occupation
Conditional Use Permit ,as requested by Grant Pollock, application USE-062-2023, based on the
findings and subject to the conditions listed in the Staff Report dated August 15, 2023 and as
modified by the findings and conditions below:

         1. List any additional findings and conditions…

Sample Motion for Denial – I move that we deny the Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit
as requested by Grant Pollock, application USE-062-2023, based on the findings listed in the
Staff Report dated August 15, 2023.




G Mobile Auto Repair                                                        App. # USE-062-2023
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit             7
                                      EXHIBIT A
                                 DEPARTMENT REVIEWS

REVIEWS ARE NOT MEANT TO BE AN ALL INCLUSIVE LIST OF POSSIBLE COMMENTS OR
CONDITIONS.

Planning Division Review.

       1. No additional comments provided.

Engineering and Public Works Divisions Review.

       1. The present and future requirements for transportation, traffic, water, sewer, and
          other utilities for the subject site do not appear to be detrimentally impacted as
          described. Given the location and proposed use, the use is not anticipated to
          generate a significant impact to water, sewer, or other potential utilities.
       2. The number of trips generated by the home owner/employees will not have a
          detrimental impact to traffic in the area due no employees and no customers visiting
          the house. The applicant has indicated that all services will be provided offsite, i.e.
          mobile services, and will not have any activity within the residence. With the
          applicant’s anticipation that there will be no customers and no additional employees,
          no significant impact to traffic is anticipated with the proposed use.
       3. No additional parking is anticipated for employees or customers with this proposed
          home occupation use. The applicant indicates he will be providing his services as a
          mobile business, at the customers’ locations, and therefore will only have parking of
          business vehicle(s) in the driveway during the evening and off work times. No
          parking will occur along the fronting public street during the day according to the
          information provided by the applicant. There will be no clients or materials delivered
          to the house by the proposed use. Based on the information from the applicant, no
          significant impact to parking is anticipated with the propose use. Presently, there are
          no parking restrictions on Lone Peak Lane.
       4. The proposed use does not appear detrimental to the health, safety, or general
          welfare of persons residing or working in the vicinity, or injurious to the property or
          improvements in the vicinity.


Building Division Review.

       1. No additional comments provided.

Fire Division Review.

       1. No additional comments provided.
  EXHIBIT B
VICINITY MAP
 EXHIBIT C
AERIAL MAP
  EXHIBIT D
LAND USE MAP
 EXHIBIT E
ZONING MAP
