MEMO
To: Planning Commission
From: Todd Taylor
Date: 2023-12-07
Re: Public Hearing: City Initiated Public Works Accessory Building Site Plan Amendment and
Deviations Request (Administrative Action)



Comments:


This application is a request for approval of a site plan amendment and deviations for the
construction of an accessory building. The overall property is approximately 10.56 acres in size and
is located on the east side of Minuteman Drive, at 72 E. Sivogah Court. The property is currently
zoned M1 (Light Manufacturing) and is developed with several buildings housing operations for the
City’s Public Works Department.



Deviations from exterior colors, materials, and building orientation

Findings for approval:
   1. The requested deviations are consistent with the purpose and intent of the development
      standards of the applicable zoning district or land use category.
   2. The proposed development satisfies at least three (3) of the criteria listed in DCMC 9-22-
      030(B).

Findings for denial:
   1. The requested deviations are not consistent with the purpose and intent of the development
      standards of the applicable zoning district or land use category.
   2. The proposed development does not satisfy at least three (3) of the criteria listed in DCMC 9-
      22-030(B).

Site Plan Amendment

Findings for approval:
   1. The site plan reflects the full development of the property.
  2. The site plan with approval of the deviation requests conforms to applicable standards set
      forth in ordinance, including but not limited to, building heights, setbacks, access points,
      parking, landscaping, and building materials.
  3. The proposed development plans meet the intent, goals, and objectives of the general plan
     and the purpose of the M1 zoning district in which the site is located.
  4. The public facilities and services in the area are adequate to support the subject
     development, as required by engineering standards and specifications.
  5. The proposed development plans will comply with the engineering standards found in Titles
     7, 8, 11, 12, 16, and 18 of the Draper City Municipal Code, including traffic, storm water
     drainage, and utilities concerns.

Findings for denial:
   1. The one or more of the deviation requests were denied and the site plan does not conform to
     applicable standards set forth in ordinance without approval of the deviation requests.
  2. The proposed development plans do not meet the intent, goals, and objectives of the general
     plan and the purpose of the M1 zoning district in which the site is located.



ATTACHMENTS:

PC Staff Report
