                 REQUEST FOR COUNCIL ACTION

To:                        Mayor & City Council
From:                      Jared Zacharias, Act-in
                           Finance Director
Date:                      February 7th 2023
Subject:                   Refunding Sales Tax Revenue Bond Series 2012C (Aquarium)
Applicant Presentation: None

Staff Presentation:        Jared Zacharias, Act-in Finance Director

RECOMMENDATION:

Approve Resolution #23-10 authorizing the issuance and sale of not more than $9,000,000 aggregate
principal amount of Sales Tax Revenue Refunding Bonds Series 2023; and related matters.




BACKGROUND AND FINDINGS:
Draper City has an outstanding bond that was issued in 2012. Sales Tax Revenue Bonds – Series
2012C has an approximate outstanding balance of $8,105,000 with the final payment due May 2023.
With the current bond rates, a refunding at this time would have an estimated Net PV cash benefit of
between $400,000 and $800,000. Staff recommends refunding Sales Tax Revenue Bond Series
2012C.


PREVIOUS LEGISLATIVE ACTION:

None


FISCAL IMPACT: Finance Review: ________



SUPPORTING DOCUMENTS:
   Resolution #23-10
                                                                               Draper, Utah

                                                                           February 7, 2023

       The City Council (the “Council”) of the City of Draper, Utah (the “Issuer”), met in
regular public session at the regular meeting place of the Council in Draper, Utah, on
Tuesday, February 7, 2023, at the hour of 7:00 p.m., with the following members of the
Council being present:

                 Troy Walker                Mayor
                 Mike Green                 Councilmember
                 Tasha Lowery               Councilmember
                 Fred Lowry                 Councilmember
                 Cal Roberts                Councilmember
                 Marsha Vawdrey             Councilmember

       Also present:

                 Laura Oscarson             City Recorder
                 David Dobbins              City Manager
                 Jared Zacharias            Acting Finance Director
                 Mike Barker                City Attorney

       Absent:



        After the meeting had been duly called to order and after other matters not pertinent
to this resolution had been discussed, there was presented to the Council a Certificate of
Compliance with Open Meeting Law with respect to this February 7, 2023 meeting, a copy
of which is attached hereto as Exhibit A.

       The following resolution was then considered, fully discussed, and pursuant to
motion duly made by ____________________ and seconded by ____________________,
was adopted by the following vote:

AYE:



NAY:



        The resolution was then signed by the Mayor and recorded in the official records
of the City Council. The resolution is as follows:
                                RESOLUTION NO. 23-10

         A RESOLUTION OF THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF DRAPER,
         UTAH (THE “CITY”), AUTHORIZING THE ISSUANCE AND SALE
         OF NOT MORE THAN $9,000,000 AGGREGATE PRINCIPAL
         AMOUNT OF SALES TAX REVENUE REFUNDING BONDS, SERIES
         2023 (THE “SERIES 2023 BONDS”); FIXING THE MAXIMUM
         AGGREGATE PRINCIPAL AMOUNT OF THE SERIES 2023 BONDS,
         THE MAXIMUM NUMBER OF YEARS OVER WHICH THE SERIES
         2023 BONDS MAY MATURE, THE MAXIMUM INTEREST RATE
         WHICH THE SERIES 2023 BONDS MAY BEAR, AND THE
         MAXIMUM DISCOUNT FROM PAR AT WHICH THE SERIES 2023
         BONDS MAY BE SOLD; DELEGATING TO CERTAIN OFFICERS OF
         THE CITY THE AUTHORITY TO APPROVE THE FINAL TERMS
         AND PROVISIONS OF THE SERIES 2023 BONDS WITHIN THE
         PARAMETERS SET FORTH HEREIN; RATIFYING THE
         PUBLICATION OF A NOTICE OF BONDS TO BE ISSUED;
         AUTHORIZING AND APPROVING A GENERAL INDENTURE,
         SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURE, A BOND PURCHASE CONTRACT
         AND OTHER DOCUMENTS REQUIRED IN CONNECTION
         THEREWITH; AUTHORIZING AND APPROVING THE USE AND
         DISTRIBUTION OF A PRELIMINARY OFFICIAL STATEMENT AND
         AN OFFICIAL STATEMENT; AUTHORIZING THE TAKING OF ALL
         OTHER ACTIONS NECESSARY TO THE CONSUMMATION OF THE
         TRANSACTIONS CONTEMPLATED BY THIS RESOLUTION; AND
         RELATED MATTERS.

        WHEREAS, the City Council (the “Council”) of the Issuer desires to (a) refund all
or a portion of the Issuer’s outstanding Sales Tax Revenue Bonds, Series 2012C (the
“Refunded Bonds”), (b) fund any necessary debt service reserve funds, and (c) pay costs
of issuance with respect to the Series 2023 Bonds herein described; and

        WHEREAS, to accomplish the purposes set forth in the preceding recital, and
subject to the limitations set forth herein, the City desires to issue the Series 2023 Bonds,
to be issued from time to time as one or more series and with such other series or title
designation(s) as may be determined by the City, pursuant to (a) the Utah Refunding Bond
Act, Title 11, Chapter 27, Utah Code Annotated 1953, as amended (the “Act”), (b) this
Resolution, and (c) a General Indenture of Trust (the “General Indenture”), and a
Supplemental Indenture of Trust to be entered into in connection with the Series 2023
Bonds (the “Supplemental Indenture” and together with the General Indenture, the
“Indenture”), with such Indenture in substantially the form attached hereto as Exhibit B;
and

       WHEREAS, the Act provides that prior to issuing bonds, an issuing entity must
give notice of its intent to issue such bonds; and

      WHEREAS, there has been presented to the Council at this meeting a form of a
Bond Purchase Contract (the “Bond Purchase Contract”) to be entered into between the

                                             2
4884-9418-2734, v. 2
City, and the underwriter/purchaser selected by the Authority for the Series 2023 Bonds
(the “Underwriter/Purchaser”), in substantially the form attached hereto as Exhibit C; and

        WHEREAS, the City desires to authorize the use and distribution of a Preliminary
Official Statement (the “Preliminary Official Statement”), and to approve a final Official
Statement (the “Official Statement”) in substantially the form attached hereto as Exhibit
D, and other documents relating thereto; and

        WHEREAS, in order to allow the City, in consultation with the City’s Municipal
Advisor, Lewis Young Robertson & Burningham, Inc., flexibility in setting the pricing date
of the Series 2023 Bonds, the Council desires to grant to any one of the Mayor (including
his designee or any Mayor pro tem) or in the absence or unavailability of the Mayor, the
City Manager of the City (the “Designated Officer”) the authority to select the
Underwriter/Purchaser, to determine whether the Refunded Bonds should be refunded, to
approve the method of sale, principal amounts, interest rates, terms, pledged revenues,
maturities, redemption features, and purchase price at which the Series 2023 Bonds shall
be sold and make any changes with respect thereto from those terms which were before the
Council at the time of adoption of this Resolution, provided such terms do not exceed the
parameters set forth for such terms in this Resolution (the “Parameters”);

       NOW, THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED by the City Council of City of Draper,
Utah, as follows:

        Section 1.     For the purpose of (a) refunding the Refunded Bonds, (b) funding a
deposit to a debt service reserve fund, if desirable and (c) paying costs of issuance of the
Series 2023 Bonds, the City hereby authorizes the issuance of a series of bonds which shall
be designated “City of Draper, Utah Sales Tax Revenue Refunding Bonds, Series 2023”
(to be issued from time to time as one or more series and with such other series or title
designation(s) as may be determined by the City) in the aggregate principal amount of not
to exceed $9,000,000. The Series 2023 Bonds shall mature in not more than twelve (12)
years from their date or dates, shall be sold at a price not less than ninety-seven percent
(97%) of the total principal amount thereof, shall bear interest at a rate or rates of not to
exceed five and one-half percent (5.50%) per annum, as shall be approved by the
Designated Officer in consultation with the Municipal Advisor, all within the Parameters
set forth herein.

        Section 2.     The Indenture and the Bond Purchase Contract, in substantially the
forms presented to this meeting and attached hereto as Exhibits B and C, respectively, are
hereby authorized, approved, and confirmed. The Mayor and City Recorder are hereby
authorized to execute and deliver the Indenture and the Bond Purchase Contract in
substantially the forms and with substantially the content as the forms presented at this
meeting for and on behalf of the City, with final terms as may be established by the
Designated Officer within the Parameters set forth herein, and with such alterations,
changes or additions as may be necessary or as may be authorized by Section 5 hereof.
The Designated Officer is hereby authorized to select the Purchaser, to specify and agree
as to the final principal amounts, terms, discounts, maturities, interest rates, redemption
features, and purchase price with respect to the Series 2023 Bonds for and on behalf of the
City, provided that such terms are within the Parameters set by this Resolution.

                                             3
4884-9418-2734, v. 2
        Section 3.     The Designated Officer or other appropriate officials of the City are
authorized to make any alterations, changes or additions to the Indenture, the Series 2023
Bonds, the Bond Purchase Contract or any other document herein authorized and approved
which may be necessary to conform the same to the final terms of the Series 2023 Bonds
(within the Parameters), to correct errors or omissions therein, to complete the same, to
remove ambiguities therefrom, or to conform the same to other provisions of said
instruments, to the provisions of this Resolution or any resolution adopted by the Council
or the provisions of the laws of the State of Utah or the United States. The execution
thereof by the Mayor or Designated Officer on behalf of the City of the documents
approved hereby shall conclusively establish such necessity, appropriateness, and approval
with respect to all such additions, modifications, deletions, and changes incorporated
therein.

       Section 4. The City hereby authorizes the utilization of the Preliminary Official
Statement, in the form attached hereto as Exhibit D in the marketing of the Series 2023
Bonds and hereby approves the Official Statement in substantially the same form as the
Preliminary Official Statement

       Section 5.     The form, terms, and provisions of the Series 2023 Bonds and the
provisions for the signatures, authentication, payment, registration, transfer, exchange,
redemption, and number shall be as set forth in the Indenture. The Mayor and the City
Recorder (or any deputy City Recorder, collectively, the “City Recorder”) are hereby
authorized and directed to execute and seal the Series 2023 Bonds and to deliver said Series
2023 Bonds to the trustee for authentication. The signatures of the Mayor and the City
Recorder may be by facsimile or manual execution.

       Section 6.      The Designated Officer or other appropriate officials of the City are
hereby authorized and directed to execute and deliver to the trustee the written order of the
City for authentication and delivery of the Series 2023 Bonds in accordance with the
provisions of the Indenture.

         Section 7.     Upon their issuance, the Series 2023 Bonds will constitute special
limited obligations of the City payable solely from and to the extent of the sources set forth
in the Series 2023 Bonds and the Indenture. No provision of this Resolution, the Indenture,
the Series 2023 Bonds, or any other instrument, shall be construed as creating a general
obligation of the City, or of creating a general obligation of the State of Utah or any political
subdivision thereof, or as incurring or creating a charge upon the general credit of the City
or its taxing powers.

        Section 8.     The Designated Officer and other appropriate officials of the City,
and each of them, are hereby authorized and directed to execute and deliver for and on
behalf of the City any or all additional certificates, documents and other papers (including,
but not limited to, an Escrow Agreement) and to perform all other acts they may deem
necessary or appropriate in order to implement and carry out the matters authorized in this
Resolution and the documents authorized and approved herein.

       Section 9.   After the Series 2023 Bonds are delivered by the trustee to the
Purchaser and upon receipt of payment therefor, this Resolution shall be and remain

                                               4
4884-9418-2734, v. 2
irrepealable until the principal of, premium, if any, and interest on the Series 2023 Bonds
are deemed to have been duly discharged in accordance with the terms and provisions of
the Indenture.

        Section 10.      In accordance with the provisions of the Act, the Issuer will cause
to be published the following “Notice of Bonds to be Issued” to be (i) published one (1)
time in the Deseret News, a newspaper of general circulation in the Issuer, (ii) posted on
the Utah Public Notice Website (http://pmn.utah.gov) and (iii) posted on the Utah Legal
Notices website (www.utahlegals.com) created under Section 45-1-101, Utah Code
Annotated 1953, as amended, and has caused a copy of this Resolution and the Indenture
to be kept on file in the Issuer’s offices, for public examination during the regular business
hours of the Issuer until at least thirty (30) days from and after the date of such publication.
The Issuer hereby authorizes the publication by its officers and staff of a “Notice of Bonds
to be Issued” in substantially the following form:




                                               5
4884-9418-2734, v. 2
                               NOTICE OF BONDS TO BE ISSUED

        NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN pursuant to the provisions of the Utah Refunding Bond Act,
Title 11, Chapter 27, Utah Code Annotated 1953, as amended, that on February 7, 2023, the City
Council (the “Council”) of the City of Draper, Utah (the “Issuer”), adopted a resolution (the
“Resolution”) authorizing the issuance of the Issuer’s Sales Tax Revenue Refunding Bonds, Series
2023 (the “Bonds”), to be issued in one or more series and with such other series or title
designation(s) as may be determined by the Issuer.

                                 PURPOSES FOR ISSUING THE BONDS
        The Bonds will be issued for the purposes of (a) refunding all or a part of the Issuer’s
outstanding sales tax revenue bonds in order to achieve a debt service savings, (b) funding a deposit
to a debt service reserve fund, if necessary, and (c) paying costs of issuance of the Bonds.

                                 PARAMETERS OF THE BONDS
         The Issuer intends to issue the Bonds in the aggregate principal amount of not more than
Nine Million Dollars ($9,000,000), to mature in not more than twelve (12) years from their date or
dates, to be sold at a price of not less than ninety-seven percent (97%) of the total principal amount
thereof, and to bear interest at a rate or rates not to exceed five and one-half percent (5.50%) per
annum. The Bonds are to be issued and sold by the Issuer pursuant to the Resolution, including as
part of said Resolution a General Indenture of Trust and a Supplemental Indenture of Trust
(together, the “Indenture”), which will be before the Council in substantially final form at the time
of the adoption of the Resolution.

                         EXCISE TAXES PROPOSED TO BE PLEDGED
         The Issuer proposes to pledge toward the payment of the Bonds 100% of all the revenues
produced by the local sales and use taxes levied by the Issuer under the Local Sales and Use Tax
Act, Title 59, Chapter 12, Part 2, Utah Code Annotated 1953, as amended.

         A copy of the Resolution and the Indenture will be on file in the office of the City Recorder,
1020 E. Pioneer Road, Draper, Utah, where they may be examined during regular business hours
of the City Recorder from 8:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. Monday through Friday, for a period of at least
thirty (30) days from and after the date of publication of this notice.

         NOTICE IS FURTHER GIVEN that a period of thirty (30) days from and after the date of
the publication of this notice is provided by law during which any person in interest shall have the
right to contest the legality of the Resolution, the Indenture (but only as it relates to the Bonds), or
the Bonds, or any provision made for the security and payment of the Bonds, and that after such
time, no one shall have any cause of action to contest the regularity, formality, or legality thereof
for any cause whatsoever.

         DATED this February 7, 2023.
                                                                   /s/ Laura Oscarson
                                                                  City Recorder




                                                   6
4884-9418-2734, v. 2
       Section 11.    The City hereby reserves the right to opt not to issue the Series 2023
Bonds for any reason.

       Section 12.    All resolutions or parts thereof in conflict herewith are, to the extent
of such conflict, hereby repealed and this Resolution shall be in full force and effect
immediately upon its approval and adoption.

        Section 13.    Upon the issuance of the Series 2023 Bonds, this Resolution shall
be and remain irrepealable until the principal of, premium, if any, and interest on the Series
2023 Bonds are deemed to have been duly discharged in accordance with the terms and
provisions of the Indenture.




                                              7
4884-9418-2734, v. 2
                  APPROVED AND ADOPTED this February 7, 2023.


(SEAL)

                                         By:_________________________________
                                                        Mayor


ATTEST:



By:
                   City Recorder




                                         8
4884-9418-2734, v. 2
       (Other business not pertinent to the foregoing appears in the minutes of the
meeting.)

         Upon the conclusion of all business on the Agenda, the meeting was adjourned.


(SEAL)

                                             By:_________________________________
                                                            Mayor


ATTEST:



By:
                   City Recorder




                                            9
4884-9418-2734, v. 2
STATE OF UTAH                          )
                                       : ss.
COUNTY OF SALT LAKE                    )

       I, Laura Oscarson, the undersigned City Recorder of the City of Draper, Utah (the
“City”), do hereby certify according to the records of the City Council of the City (the
“City Council”) in my official possession that the foregoing constitutes a true and correct
excerpt of the minutes of the meeting of the City Council held on February 7, 2023,
including a resolution (the “Resolution”) adopted at said meeting as said minutes and
Resolution are officially of record in my possession.

        I further certify that the Resolution, with all exhibits attached, was deposited in my
office on February 7, 2023.

       IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto subscribed my signature and impressed
hereon the official seal of said City, this February 7, 2023.


(SEAL)

                                                By:
                                                               City Recorder




                                               10
4884-9418-2734, v. 2
                                        EXHIBIT A

                       CERTIFICATE OF COMPLIANCE WITH
                              OPEN MEETING LAW

       I, Laura Oscarson, the undersigned City Recorder of the City of Draper, Utah (the
“City”), do hereby certify, according to the records of the City in my official possession,
and upon my own knowledge and belief, that in accordance with the requirements of
Section 52-4-202, Utah Code Annotated, 1953, as amended, I gave not less than twenty-
four (24) hours public notice of the agenda, date, time and place of the February 7, 2023,
public meeting held by the City Council of the City (the “City Council”) as follows:

              (a) By causing a Notice, in the form attached hereto as Schedule 1, to be
       posted at the principal offices of the City at least twenty-four (24) hours prior to the
       convening of the meeting, said Notice having continuously remained so posted and
       available for public inspection until the completion of the meeting;

               (b)     By causing a copy of such Notice, in the form attached hereto as
       Schedule 1, to be delivered to the Deseret News at least twenty-four (24) hours
       prior to the convening of the meeting; and

                (c)    By causing a copy of such Notice, in the form attached hereto as
       Schedule 1, to be posted on the Utah Public Notice Website (http://pmn.utah.gov)
       at least twenty-four (24) hours prior to the convening of the meeting.

        In addition, the Notice of 2023 Annual Meeting Schedule for the City Council
(attached hereto as Schedule 2) was given specifying the date, time, and place of the regular
meetings of the City Council to be held during the year, by causing said Notice to be (a)
posted on _______________, at the principal office of the City Council, (b) provided to at
least one newspaper of general circulation within the City on _______________, and (c)
published on the Utah Public Notice Website (http://pmn.utah.gov) during the current
calendar year.

       IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto subscribed my official signature this
February 7, 2023.


(SEAL)

                                               By:
                                                               City Recorder




                                            A-1
                          SCHEDULE 1

                       NOTICE OF MEETING




                              A-2
4884-9418-2734, v. 2
                             SCHEDULE 2

                       ANNUAL MEETING SCHEDULE




                                 A-3
4884-9418-2734, v. 2
                       (attach Proof of Publication of
                       Notice of Bonds to be Issued)




                                    A-4
4884-9418-2734, v. 2
    EXHIBIT B

FORM OF INDENTURE




       B-1
           EXHIBIT C

FORM OF BOND PURCHASE CONTRACT




              C-1
              EXHIBIT D

FORM OF PRELIMINARY OFFICIAL STATEMENT




                 D-1
