                                 Development Review Committee
                                      1020 East Pioneer Road
                                        Draper, UT 84020
                                               January 19, 2023

To:               Draper City Planning Commission
                  Business Date: January 26, 2023

From:            Development Review Committee

Prepared By: Todd A. Draper, AICP, Planner III
             Planning Division
             Community Development Department
             801-576-6335, todd.draper@draperutah.gov

Re:      City Initiated Water-Wise Landscaping and Site Amendments – Text
         Amendment Request
         Application No.: TEXTMAP-187-2022
         Applicant:        Draper City
         Project Location: City Wide
         Current Zoning: City Wide
         Acreage:          City Wide
         Request:          Request for approval of a Text Amendment regarding amending
                           and/or enacting multiple sections within Title 9 and Title 17 of
                           Draper City Municipal Code regarding definitions, site plan
                           review, site design, landscaping including water-wise landscaping,
                           screening, parking area design, outdoor storage and display, and
                           related subdivision requirements.



BACKGROUND AND SUMMARY
This application is a request for approval of a Text Amendment to amend landscaping, site
development, and subdivision regulations within the Draper City Municipal Code (DCMC)
primarily pertaining to the incorporation of water-wise landscaping practices and principals
into the ordinance and the published water efficiency standards of the Jordan Valley Water
Conservancy District (JVWCD).

ANALYSIS
Text Amendments. This report will review the modifications being proposed. The legislative
copy of the changes can be found in Exhibit C of this report. Additions to the text are



City Initiated Water-Wise Landscaping and Site Amendments         App. # TEXTMAP-187-2022
Text Amendment Request                                    1
indicated in blue, deletions in red, and unchanged text in black. A copy of the published
JVWCD standards is provided as Exhibit D, and detailed comparison between the published
JVWCD standards and the proposed changes to the DCMC is provided as Exhibit E. General
comments and suggestions provided from a sub-committee of the Draper City Tree
Committee are provided as Exhibit B.

A major concern of staff is the lack of cohesive or enforceable standards within the JVWCD
standards document. Another major concern is the over-reliance within that document on
the nebulous and ill-defined term Localscapes®, which is registered as a wordmark and
trademark of JVWCD, describing a series of educational programs and downloadable
electronic newsletters. Furthermore, the definition contained within the JVWCD standards
document seeks to re-define the term as a five (5) step approach to landscaping design and
to recognize it as the only permitted design style or layout for all developments.

Recognizing the shortcomings of the JVWCD standards document, planning staff
incorporated many of the recommendations from the JVWCD standards document and a
separate model ordinance produced by the district into the proposed DCMC text. The
following is an analysis of each section of the proposed text.

DCMC Section 9-3-040: Definitions: Proposed definitions for the landscaping terms Caliper,
Bubbler, Drip Emitter, Grass, Ornamental Grass, Ground Cover, Hardscape, Landscape Architect,
Landscape Designer, Landscape Edging, Landscape Grading Plan, Landscape Irrigation Plan,
Landscape Planting Plan, Mulch, Open Space, Annual Plant, Biennial Plant, Perennial Plant,
Planting Bed, Shrub, Evergreen Shrub, Sod, Street Tree, Turf, Artificial Turf, and Water-Conserving
Plant are all proposed to be added to the definitions section.

Minor modifications to the definitions are proposed for the terms Deciduous Tree and
Evergreen Tree, and they are also proposed to be relocated within the list of definitions to
appear next to one another.

The proposed text would move the definition of Street Tree from Title 17, the Draper City
Subdivision Ordinance to Title 9, the Land Use and Development Code.

The definition of Landscaping is proposed to be replaced with a new expanded definition
that more aptly describes the use of the term throughout the DCMC.

Definitions for Ornamental Trees and Shade Trees are proposed for removal as they are not
utilized within the new proposed ordinance text.

DCMC Section 9-5-090: Site Plan Review: Changes to this section include the additional
requirement to submit a landscape plan package as part of the application for site plan
approval. Details of the submittal requirements of a landscape plan package are added
which include: project data, details, and specifications; a landscape planting plan; a



City Initiated Water-Wise Landscaping and Site Amendments             App. # TEXTMAP-187-2022
Text Amendment Request                                    2
landscape irrigation plan, and a landscape grading plan. An additional option is also
included to permit the site grading plan to count as the landscape grading plan if additional
details are included on the site grading plan.

The requirement to submit floor plans for review is proposed to be added to this section
also to address issues and conflicts that have arisen when Site plan and Amended Site Plan
applications have been reviewed and data regarding the total square footage of the
building necessary for verifying parking counts is missing, inaccurate, or incomplete.

DCMC Section 9-22-050: Site Design: The proposed amendments to subsection A would
simplify the intent to bring buildings up to the street, and orient buildings and main
entrances to the street, and add additional clarification regarding the intent to have equal
architectural treatment of each façade for buildings on corner lots. Additional regulations
pertaining to building placement currently found in DCMC Chapter 9-23 are proposed to be
added to this subsection.

Subsections B: Context and C: Miscellaneous Site Considerations as currently written are
proposed to be stricken from this section. New regulations are introduced as subsection B:
Service Areas, Outdoor Storage and Screening that address the location and screening of site
elements previously contained in the stricken subsection C. New expanded regulations
previously located in subsection D for the provision of site amenities is proposed to replace
the former subsection C.

Subsection D is proposed to be substantially stricken out and the landscaping requirements
of this subsection were included with the proposed additions to DCMC Chapter 9-23. The
amenity requirements of this section were incorporated into the proposed changes to the
previous subsection C.

DCMC 9-23-010: Purpose: The purpose statement for Chapter 9-23 Landscaping and Screening
is proposed to be revised for additional clarity. Additional refinement of the chapter
objectives is also proposed. Additional focus is placed on water conservation, water-wise
landscape designs, and environmental conditions within the landscape. The unenforceable
and subjective objective tied to aesthetical appearance is proposed to be removed.

DCMC 9-23-020: Scope; Exemptions: Exemptions for agricultural uses are proposed to be
more narrowly defined so as to apply more strictly to farming and to require sites
containing agricultural industry, processing, and sales operations to meet the landscaping
requirements.

DCMC 9-23-030: Deviations: The ability to request deviations from anything in the landscape
chapter, and the process for reviewing and approving the same is proposed to be stricken
in its entirety. Specific conditions for modifications to or exemptions from specific
regulations have been added to other proposed sections of the ordinance.



City Initiated Water-Wise Landscaping and Site Amendments         App. # TEXTMAP-187-2022
Text Amendment Request                                    3
DCMC 9-23-040: Landscape Plans: The proposed ordinance would allow for a landscape
designer as licensed or permitted by the State of Utah to seal and submit landscape plans.
This would permit Engineers and Land Surveyors to also create and stamp landscape plans
for commercial sites, and other qualified individuals such as nurserymen and
horticulturalists to create non-commercial/residential plans.

DCMC 9-23-050: Site Design Criteria: This section is proposed to be retitled as Landscape
Design Criteria, and the criteria pertaining to site design were moved to the proposed site
design section of DCMC 9-22-050.

Subsection A is proposed to be retitled as Plant Selection and Arrangement: and new
proposed regulations from the existing ordinance, JVWCD standards, JVWCD model
ordinance, and others are proposed to be added. The new proposed subsection includes
regulations for the selection of plants and trees and includes prohibitions and restrictions
on the amount and location of turf in the landscape plans.

Subsections B and C are proposed to be stricken from the section, and subsequent sections
renumbered.

Subsection D is proposed to be renumbered as Subsection B and be re-worded to clarity the
intent that the layout of the planting plan actively seek to mitigate negative effects of
climate and weather conditions.

Subsection E is proposed to be renumbered as Subsection C and proposed changes clarify
that the site grading shall be designed to implement the required retention of existing
trees and vegetation located in required perimeter planting areas, land use buffers and
yards.

Subsection F is proposed to be removed as it is redundant, and subsequent sections
renumbered.

Subsection G is proposed to be renumbered as Subsection D. Proposed changes to this
subsection clarify that water-wise landscaping practices are required. Additional revisions
and clarification proposed for the existing requirement to test the soil in order to
determine the necessary amendments has also been added for non-residential properties.

Subsection H is proposed to be renumbered as Subsection E. The superfluous description of
low impact development is proposed to be stricken.

New subsections are proposed to be added as Subsections F, G, H and I . The new proposed
Subsection F is the location in the ordinance proposed to move the minimum requirement
that non-residential and mixed use developments provide a minimum of twenty percent



City Initiated Water-Wise Landscaping and Site Amendments         App. # TEXTMAP-187-2022
Text Amendment Request                                    4
(20%) of the gross area of the site as landscaping. Subsection G sets a minimum plant
coverage of fifty percent (50%) within two growing seasons, and seventy-five percent (75%)
overall coverage within ten years. The new proposed subsection H details requirements for
a diversity of plant and tree species. Limits a single plant species from covering more than
twenty percent (20%) of the total coverage area of all plants and shrubs and limits a single
tree species to no more than twenty-five percent (25%) of all provided trees with
exceptions build in for sites with fewer than ten (10) trees.

DCMC 9-23-055: Irrigation Design Standards: This is a new section proposed to be added to
the ordinance. This section details the design standards required for the irrigation plan.
The standards for the most part come directly from the JVWCD model ordinance, but also
correlate with standards and elements found in the JVWCD standards document. The
regulations are primarily technical in nature. The irrigation system is required to tie in
directly with the water needs of the selected plants in the planting plan, provide regulation
of water pressure, limit sprinklers to turf areas and require drip irrigation for all other
areas, with the exception of trees that may utilize bubblers. Requirements pertaining to
irrigation system controls, including programed watering schedules and systems that can
make automatic adjustments to the watering schedule based on changing weather
conditions are also included.

DCMC 9-23-070: Tree and Vegetation Protection: The current language is proposed to be
stricken in its entirety and be replaced with more detailed and specific regulations
pertaining to the protection of existing trees and vegetation. Decisions on allowing for the
removal of existing trees and vegetation otherwise required to be protected is proposed to
be delegated to the Zoning Administrator and specific conditions are listed where the
Zoning Administrator may permit removal.

DCMC 9-23-080: Park Strip Landscaping: The specific requirements for landscaping in park
strips is proposed to be remove from the subdivision code and to be added into the
landscaping chapter. Additional regulations regarding street trees; their location, minimum
caliper of two inches (2”), minimum quantity of one per forty feet (40’) of frontage, and
replacement have also been added to the proposed language. New regulations pertaining
to the inclusion of additional landscaping in park strips that are wider than five feet (5’) and
a prohibition on turf within park strips eight feet (8’) or less in width are proposed.

DCMC 9-23-090: Perimeter Landscaping: The provisions of this section are proposed to be re-
formatted and in some instances re-worded to help clarify the individual requirements. A
new subsection allowing the zoning administrator to accept alternative landscape plans in
situations where the distance between a building and the property line is less than ten feet
(10’) which still meet the intent of the perimeter landscaping requirements is also included
in the proposed changes.

DCMC 9-23-100: Parking lot Landscaping: The proposed changes to this section include



City Initiated Water-Wise Landscaping and Site Amendments           App. # TEXTMAP-187-2022
Text Amendment Request                                    5
incorporation of all landscape and design standards currently located in Chapter 9-25:
Parking including their associated images and graphics, and in some instances revised
graphics are proposed. Subsection A is proposed to be revised to incorporate the required
percentages of parking lot landscaping for each type of use. Parking lot landscape design
elements in Subsection B are proposed to be moved to Subsection C and the section
repurposed for additional instructions for calculating and determining compliance with the
required percentages listed in the proposed Subsection A alongside Figure 9-23-1 which is
the graphical depiction of the same landscape calculations currently found in Chapter 9-25
Parking as Figure 9-25-2. Subsection C is proposed to be retitled as Location and Design and
adds additional clarification to the required locations of parking lot landscaping. The
proposal incorporates the design elements from Subsection B together with design criteria
being proposed for relocation from DCMC Subsection 9-25-080(H) and adds Figure 9-23-2
Parking Area Landscaping Islands and Figure 9-23-3 Parking Row Dividing Landscaping
proposed to be relocated from the same subsection of the parking chapter.

DCMC 9-23-110: Land Use Buffers: The ability for an applicant to request additional
deviations to the landscape buffer requirements is proposed to be removed from
Subsection C. The allowance to permit reductions to the width down to ten feet (10’) by the
Zoning Administrator would remain.

Subsection E is proposed to be rewritten to better clarify the requirements for retention of
existing trees and plants within the land use buffer area, and includes the ability of the
zoning administrator to permit removal of existing vegetation of poor quality or health, or
that is unsuitable for meeting the objectives of the land use buffer, specifically that of visual
screening.

In Subsection G a small addition to the ordinance is proposed to included generators and
trash receptacle enclosures in the list of things that may not be placed within a land use
buffer.

DCMC 9-23-120: Site Feature Buffering and Screening: This section is proposed to be rewritten
to provided landscaping standards that correlate with the proposed changes to Section 9-
22-050 regarding screening of trash receptacles, service and loading areas, utility meters
and the like. Minimum standards regarding plant quantities and screening coverage are
also proposed to be set.

DCMC 9-23-130: Tree and Landscape Material Standards: The proposed ordinance changes to
this section provide updates to the type and quality standards applicable to trees, shrubs,
and other plants.

Subsection C which prohibits artificial plants and vegetation is proposed to be renamed and
reworded to allow for Artificial Turf in the landscape.




City Initiated Water-Wise Landscaping and Site Amendments           App. # TEXTMAP-187-2022
Text Amendment Request                                    6
In Subsection D the method for measuring caliper is proposed to be eliminated as it is
redundant and already covered under the requirements of Subsection B. Standards for
deciduous and evergreen trees are clarified in the proposed changes and ornamental trees
and their standards are proposed to be removed from Subsection D also.

In Subsection E new standards are proposed for shrubs, requiring them to be at least a
three (3) gallon size at the time of planting. Additional height requirements for shrubs in
land use buffers and surrounding parking lots are also proposed in Subsection E.

New regulations for ground treatments and general appearance are included in Subsection
F. Additional details and limits for the use of rock mulch are incorporated into the proposed
ground treatment subsection, including a ten percent (10%) limit on placing rock mulch
without accompanying plants when within ten feet (10’) of buildings.

DCMC 9-23-140: Installation, Irrigation, Maintenance and Replacement: This section is
proposed to be retitled and reconfigured to remove irrigation regulations proposed to be
replaced by the new proposed Section 9-23-055 and insert regulations regarding inspection.
All of the current language in Subsection B and Subsection C is proposed to be stricken and
replaced.

The new proposed Subsection B requires that designers and installers of commercial,
industrial, institutional, civic, and mixed use sites to hold applicable licenses and be bonded
and insured. Additionally a requirement is proposed requiring that the landscape architect
or designer first inspect the commercial landscape installation and issue their certificate of
substantial completion prior to the final City inspection of the landscaping. The intent of
this requirement is to reduce the number of requests made to the City for inspection of
incomplete landscape installations.

The new proposed Subsection C spells out general property owner responsibilities for
maintenance and replacement of landscaping, including landscaping in the park strip as
well as maintenance of landscape features and the removal of weeds and other
undesirable tree and plant species.

DCMC 9-23-160: Temporary Suspension of Landscaping Installation: Proposed changes to this
section are meant to clarify the time period between October 1st and March 31st, in addition
to other periods of adverse weather conditions declared by the Zoning Administrator,
when landscape installation may be suspended. The proposal also strengthens the
agreement with the developer to require that a guarantee completion assurance be posted
for incomplete landscaping work, and provides a set time period tied to the upcoming
growing season for completion of the work.

DCMC 9-23-170: Tables: Changes to the tables are proposed to clarify and strengthen the
planting requirements. In Table 9-23-1, the proposed addition of the definition of Planting



City Initiated Water-Wise Landscaping and Site Amendments          App. # TEXTMAP-187-2022
Text Amendment Request                                    7
Bed to Section 9-3-040 eliminates the need for notation 1, and subsequent notations are
proposed to be renumbered. The proposed notation 1 provides increased detail regarding
landscape hedge height and maintenance and requires that when decorative walls or
fencing is utilized in lieu of plantings that it match the architectural design and materials of
the building or the site fencing. Screening per the new proposed changes for notation 2
would set a five (5) year time period for achieving the screening percentages n listed in the
table, acknowledging that smaller plants are initially planted and that the coverage
increases over time with plant growth.

For Table 9-23-2, proposed changes include requiring deciduous trees as replacing the
previous more ambiguous requirement of shade trees and making additional distinctions
regarding the use of evergreen shrubs. The proposed changes to the notations to the table
provide for modifications and reductions to the requirements under certain circumstances
where buildings are located closer than ten feet (10’) to a property line, or where the
selected species of plant is able to provide a sufficient level of screening with fewer plants.

DCMC 9-25-080: Parking Area Design and Construction: Subsection H of this section is
proposed to be eliminated as the text and drawings are proposed to be added into Chapter
9-23 Landscaping and Screening, primarily into Section 9-23-100. Subsequent subsections are
proposed to be renumbered.

DCMC 9-27-230: Outdoor Storage and Display: This section is proposed to be revised to
provide additional detail and clarity regarding the requirements for screening of outdoor
storage and display areas. The general intent of the current ordinance is maintained.
Additional clarification regarding the need for Planning Commission approval of a
Conditional Use Permit for fences or walls over six feet (6’) in height and up to ten feet (10’)
in height is proposed to be added for consistency with other provisions within the DCMC.
Additional discretion is also proposed to be given to the Planning Commission to require
mitigation of existing or potential negative impacts of open storage areas and their
required enclosures.

DCMC 17-1-040: Definitions: Changes to the included definitions of Park Strip and Street Tree
are proposed to point to the same definitions proposed for DCMC Section 9-3-040.

DCMC 17-5-060: Landscaping and Trees: This section is proposed to be amended to apply to
all subdivisions. Landscaping and irrigation plans for all park strips and public areas are to
be submitted with the final plat applications. Street trees are also proposed to be required
of all subdivisions. The proposal includes the requirement that all landscape and irrigation
plans meet the applicable requirements of DCMC Chapter 9-23, and specifically Section 9-23-
080 regarding park strips, Subsection 9-23-050(J) regarding species diversity, and Section 9-
23-140 regarding property owner maintenance. Additional details and element currently
contained in Subsection B and Subsection C are proposed for removal as they are proposed
for addition into applicable Sections within DCMC Chapter 9-23: Landscaping and Screening.



City Initiated Water-Wise Landscaping and Site Amendments           App. # TEXTMAP-187-2022
Text Amendment Request                                    8
Details from Subsection B regarding Improvement Completion Assurances are proposed to
be updated and included in the Section as a new Subsection C.

Criteria For Approval.
A Text and Map Amendment is a matter committed to the legislative discretion of the City
Council and is not controlled by any one standard. However, in making a recommendation
to the City Council, the Planning Commission should consider the following factors in
Section 9-5-060(E) of the DCMC:

         2. Text Amendments:
              a. Whether the proposed amendment is consistent with goals, objectives and policies
                  of the city's general plan;
              b. Whether a proposed amendment furthers the specific purpose statements of the
                  zoning ordinance;
              c. Whether the proposed amendment is appropriate given the context of the request
                  and there is sufficient justification for a modification to the zoning ordinance;
              d. The proposed amendment will not create a conflict with any other section or part
                  of this title or the general plan;
              e. Whether the potential effects of the proposed amendment have been evaluated
                  and determined not to be detrimental to public health, safety, or welfare and
                  represents an overall community benefit; and
              f. The extent to which a proposed text amendment implements best current,
                  professional practices of urban planning, design, and engineering practices



REVIEWS
Planning Division Review. The Draper City Planning Division has completed their review of
the Text Amendment submission. Comments from this division, if any, can be found in
Exhibit A.

Engineering and Public Works Divisions Review. The Draper City Engineering and Public
Works Divisions have completed their reviews of the Text Amendment submission.
Comments from these divisions, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Fire Division Review. The Draper City Fire Marshal has completed his review of the Text
Amendment submission. Comments from this division, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Legal Division Review. The Draper City Attorney has completed his review of the Text
Amendment submission. Comments from this division, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Noticing. Notice has been properly issued in the manner outlined in the City and State
Codes.




City Initiated Water-Wise Landscaping and Site Amendments             App. # TEXTMAP-187-2022
Text Amendment Request                                    9
STAFF RECOMMENDATION
Staff recommends that the Planning Commission review the request, receive public
comment, and make a recommendation to the City Council based on the findings listed
below and the criteria for approval, or denial, as listed within the staff report.

The findings for a positive recommendation are as follows:

    1. The proposed amendment is consistent with goals, objectives and policies of the
       city's general plan;
    2. The proposed amendment furthers the specific purpose statements of the zoning
       ordinance;
    3. The proposed amendment is appropriate given the context of the request and there
       is sufficient justification for a modification to the zoning ordinance;
    4. The proposed amendment will not create a conflict with any other section or part of
       this title or the general plan;
    5. The potential effects of the proposed amendment have been evaluated and are
       determined not to be detrimental to public health, safety, or welfare and represent
       an overall community benefit; and
    6. The proposed text amendment implements best current, professional practices of
       urban planning, design, and engineering.

The findings for a negative recommendation are as follows:

    1. The proposed amendment is not consistent with goals, objectives and policies of
       the city's general plan;
    2. The proposed amendment does not further the specific purpose statements of the
       zoning ordinance;
    3. The proposed amendment is not appropriate given the context of the request and
       there is not sufficient justification for a modification to the zoning ordinance;
    4. The proposed amendment could create a conflict with another section or part of
       this title or the general plan;
    5. The potential effects of the proposed amendment have been determined to be
       detrimental to public health, safety, or welfare or do not represent an overall
       community benefit; and
    6. The proposed text amendment is not consistent with current best practices of
       urban planning, design, and engineering.



MODEL MOTIONS
Sample Motion for Approval – I move that we forward a positive recommendation to the
City Council for the City Initiated Water-Wise Landscaping and Site Amendments Text



City Initiated Water-Wise Landscaping and Site Amendments      App. # TEXTMAP-187-2022
Text Amendment Request                                    10
Amendment, as requested by Draper City, application TEXTMAP-187-2022, based on the
findings listed in the Staff Report dated January 19, 2023.

Sample Motion for Modified Approval– I move that we forward a positive recommendation
to the City Council for the City Initiated Water-Wise Landscaping and Site Amendments Text
Amendment, as requested by Draper City, application TEXTMAP-187-2022, based on the
findings listed in the Staff Report dated January 19, 2023, and as modified by the findings
and conditions below:

         1. List any additional findings and conditions…

Sample Motion for Denial – I move that we forward a negative recommendation to the City
Council for the City Initiated Water-Wise Landscaping and Site Amendments Text
Amendment, as requested by Draper City, application TEXTMAP-187-2022, based on the
findings listed in the Staff Report dated January 19, 2023.




City Initiated Water-Wise Landscaping and Site Amendments       App. # TEXTMAP-187-2022
Text Amendment Request                                    11
                                      EXHIBIT A
                                 DEPARTMENT REVIEWS

REVIEWS ARE NOT MEANT TO BE AN ALL INCLUSIVE LIST OF POSSIBLE COMMENTS OR
CONDITIONS.



Planning Division Review.

       1. No additional comments.

Engineering and Public Works Divisions Review.

       1. No additional comments provided.

Fire Division Review.

       1. No additional comments provided.

Legal Division Review.

       1.   No additional comments provided.
                                  EXHIBIT B
                         DRAPER CITY TREE COMMITTEE
                    SUB-COMMITTEE INITIAL RECOMENDATIONS



Here are our general recommendations:

We expect these to apply to all three categories, but city would only enforce for commercial
and residential developers:

Individual Residential
Residential development
Commercial


   1. Parkstrips:
         1. For all new parkstrips: Follow the Flip the strip/Localscapes guidelines - at
             least 50% plant material; can't do just 100% rock in the public view.
         2. No sprays and only drip irrigation etc.
         3. No grass
         4. Follow Draper Street Tree guide for tree selection
         5. Street tree caliper requirement of 2"
   2. Tree planting spec - use the spec that Steve Glover will use for city projects - AWPA
      spec that will be regularly updated.
   3. Front yard - Follow localscapes guidelines - not allowed to do just 100% rock
   4. No parking diamonds with trees- instead pull the landscaping area to the
      perimeters
   5. Responsibilities clearly defined for responsibilities for park strip tree and
      landscaping between city and owner/resident
         1. Planting
         2. Care and maintenance
         3. Pruning
       EXHIBIT C
PROPOSED LEGISLATIVE TEXT
City Initiated 2022 Legislative Text Amendments
TEXTMAP-187-2022

9-3-040: DEFINITIONS:
…
CALIPER: A trunk diameter measurement consistent with the American Standard for
Nursery Stock ANXI Z60.1 standard (as amended). Generally, for trees the measurement is
taken six inches (6") above the ground or soil line up to and including four inch (4") caliper
size interval. If the caliper measurement when taken at six inches (6") above the ground
meet or exceeds four and one-half inches (4-1/2"), the caliper size is instead measured at
twelve inches (12") above the ground.

DECIDUOUS TREE: A plant species which sheds leaves at the end of the growing season,
has a dormant period without leaves, and regrows the leaves at the beginning of the next
growing season. Most deciduous plants bear flowers and have woody stems and broad
leaves rather than needlelike leaves.

…
EVERGREEN TREE: A plant species with needles or leaves which remain alive and on the
tree through the winter months and into the next growing season.
…
BUBBLER: An irrigation head that delivers water to the root zone by “flooding” the planted
area, usually measured in gallons per minute. Bubblers exhibit a trickle, umbrella or short
stream pattern.
…

DRIP EMITTER: Drip irrigation fittings that deliver water slowly at the root zone of the plant,
usually measured in gallons per hour.
…

GRASS: Monocotyledonous plants from the botanical family Poaceae or Gramineae having
narrow leaves, hollow stems, and clusters of very small flowers.


GRASS, ORNAMENTAL: Varieties of grass including grass-like perennial plants (sedges and
rushes) that serve no purpose other than decoration. Characteristic foliage includes thick
reed-like blades attached to stems topped by an inflorescence or seed head grown in
bunches or clumps. As used in this title, ornamental grass does not include grass varieties
used as Turf, Lawn or Sod.
…
GROUND COVER: Live plantings, not including lawn or turf that form a continuous cover
over the ground that can be maintained at a height not exceeding twelve inches (12”) from
the surface.
…
HARDSCAPE: Patios, decks, walls, paths and similar man-made features that are part of an
integrated landscape design. This definition does not include driveways, sidewalks, parking
areas, or other paved walkways required for pedestrian access.
…

LANDSCAPING OR LANDSCAPE: The area within a site or lot which consists of living plants,
such as trees, shrubs, vines, ground covers, flowers or grass. This area can also include
natural features, such as rocks, stones, bark chips and structural features, such as
fountains, ponds, artwork and benches. Landscaping can be used to soften the impacts of
the built environment or provide recreational opportunities. The area of a development
consisting of natural and/or introduced live vegetation together with accompanying
earthwork and mulch that provide visual enhancement to the development. Landscaping
can also include related outdoor features placed together with the vegetation such as
decorative boulders, fountains, ponds, artwork, and benches. Also includes the act of
installing the foregoing.


LANDSCAPE ARCHITECT: A person who holds a professional license to practice landscape
architecture in the state of Utah.


LANDSCAPE DESIGNER: An individual that does not hold a professional license for
landscape architecture but can otherwise demonstrate the necessary qualifications and
competency in landscape design such as possession of an undergraduate degree in
landscape architecture or horticulture from a regionally accredited educational institution,
or certification as a Utah Certified Nursery Professional. Also includes individuals who
possess a Utah professional license as an architect, engineer, or land surveyor and are
permitted by the State to stamp plans that fall under the practice of landscape
architecture.


LANDSCAPE EDGING: Metal, concrete, plastic, or other similar durable, weather, and rot
resistant material that is used to separate different elements of a landscape from one
another.


LANDSCAPE GRADING PLAN: Schematic, scaled drawing(s) showing finish grades, spot
elevations as necessary and existing and new contours with the developed landscaped
area.
LANDSCAPE IRRIGATION PLAN: Schematic, scaled drawing(s) showing the layout and
components of the system for providing water to the landscaped areas of a site.


LANDSCAPE PLANTING PLAN: Schematic, scaled drawing(s) of a site or property showing
the general layout of all landscaped areas.
…

MULCH: Materials such as rock, bark, wood chips or similar materials left loose and applied
over the soil for the purposes of water conservation, reducing weed growth, and enhancing
the visual appeal of an area.
…

NATURAL SURVEILLANCE: A Crime Prevention Through Environmental Design (CEPTED)
design principal and concept directed primarily at keeping intruders under observation and
limiting the opportunity for crime by increasing the perception that people can be seen.

…

OPEN SPACE: An area of land, inclusive of any wetlands or watercourses, open to the sky
and not occupied by buildings, structures, parking areas, driveways, streets, alleys, or the
like, which is set aside, dedicated, designated, retained, or reserved for use as passive or
active recreation or for resource protection. The area is intended to remain in an
undeveloped, natural, or naturalized state by design, but this definition also extends to
include other intentionally landscaped areas of a site serving the same purposes in
instances where an undeveloped or natural state is not specified by the ordinance.
…



ORNAMENTAL TREES: Either deciduous or evergreen trees which provide decoration within
a landscape setting due to a defining feature, such as flowers, foliage, texture, form, shape
or other aesthetic characteristics.
…

PARK STRIP: The area located along each side of a street between a street right of way line
and the edge of asphalt or curb, but not including driveways, sidewalks, or trails. Does not
include approved and permitted sidewalks, driveway approaches, curbs, or trails. The
definition is also inclusive of the term city tree planting strips.

…

PLANT, ANNUAL: A plant species that completes its entire life cycle within a single growing
season in which all roots, stems, and leaves of the plant die at the end of growing season.
PLANT, BIENNIAL: A plant species that requires two growing seasons to complete its life
cycle in which all roots, stems, and leaves of the plant die at the end of the second season.

PLANT, PERENNIAL: A plant which persists for many growing seasons, usually with new
herbaceous growth from a part of the plant that survives from growing season to growing
season. As used in this title it includes ornamental grasses but not turf, lawn, or sod.


PLANTING BED: A well-defined and physically separate area from other adjacent
landscaped areas utilized for planting annual, biennial, and perennial plants, small shrubs,
and non-turf ground covers.
…

SHADE TREES: A tree grown specifically to provide shade within a landscaped area. While
they can be either deciduous or evergreen, these trees are typically tall with spreading
canopies.
…

SHRUB: A woody, multi-stemmed, perennial plant species. As used in this title the term
refers collectively to deciduous and evergreen varieties, except where the specific term
evergreen shrub is used

SHRUB, EVERGREEN: A woody, multi-stemmed, perennial plant species with needles or
leaves that remain alive and on the plant through the winter months and into the next
growing season.

…
SOD: Cultivated turf that has been cut into sections and harvested in rectangular slabs or
rolls, to facilitate transportation to and installation at another site. Installation is referred to
as sodding, and the practice reduces the time it takes to make turf areas within a landscape
design functional, typically within thirty (30) days.

…
STREET TREE: An approved tree placed within a park strip, the landscaped portion of a
right-of-way, or within fifteen feet (15’) of the nearest edge of the right-of-way line. Street
trees along public streets are considered public improvements.

…
TREE, DECIDUOUS: A tree species which sheds leaves at the end of each growing season.

TREE, EVERGREEN: A tree species with needles or leaves that remain alive and on the tree
through the winter months and into the next growing season.
…

TURF: A surface layer of earth containing mowed grass with its roots. Includes the terms
lawn and sod.


TURF, ARTIFICIAL: Any of various synthetic, carpet like materials made to resemble turf.


…

WATER-CONSERVING PLANT: A plant that can generally survive with available rainfall once
established although supplemental irrigation may be needed or desirable during times of
limited rainfall. Synonymous with the terms water-wise plantings, drought tolerant plant
and xeriscape landscaping.
….

9-5-090: SITE PLAN REVIEW:
…
     D. Procedure: An application for site plan approval shall be considered and processed
        as provided in this subsection.
        1. A complete application shall be submitted to the office of the zoning
           administrator in a form established by the administrator, along with any fee
           established by the city's consolidated fee schedule. The application shall include
           the following information:
           a. The name, address and telephone number of the applicant and the
              applicant's agent, if any.
           b. The uses for which site plan approval is requested.
           c. A certified occupancy survey at a scale no smaller than one inch equals one
              hundred feet (1" = 100') showing the deed boundary, all deed boundaries of
              adjacent parcels, and all existing natural and manmade features, such as
              fences, ditches, buildings, etc., within fifty feet (50') of the property line.
           d. A single electronic set of development plans showing the information
              required in subsections D(1)(d)(1) to D(1)(d)(6) of this section. The information
              required by each subsection shall be shown on separate sheets. Plans shall
              be drawn at a scale no smaller than one inch equals one hundred feet (1" =
              100'). Plan sets shall be prepared, stamped and signed by the professional,
              licensed with the state of Utah, who prepared the drawings or is
              professionally responsible for the drawings content, including the
              engineering, landscaping and architectural drawings. The development plans
              shall include:
               (1) Site plan showing the following:
   (A) All facilities related to the project located within two hundred fifty feet
       (250') of the site boundary.
   (B) Layout, dimensions, and names of existing and future road rights of
       way. (New street names must be cleared through the county.)
   (C) Project name, north arrow, legend and tie to a section monument.
   (D) The boundary lines of the project site with bearings and distances.
   (E) Layout and dimensions of existing and proposed streets, buildings,
       parking areas, driveways, easements, setbacks, overhangs for
       setbacks, and landscape areas.
   (F) Location, dimensions, and labeling of other features such as bicycle
       racks, dumpsters, trash cans, fences, retaining walls, nearest fire
       hydrant, signage, mechanical equipment, etc.
   (G) Location of manmade features, including irrigation facilities, bridges,
       railroad tracks, and buildings.
   (H) A tabulation table, showing total gross acreage, square footage of
       street rights of way, square footage of building footprint, square
       footage of total building floor area, square footage of landscaping,
       number of parking spaces, and square footage of impervious
       surfaces.
   (I) Identification of property, if any, not proposed for development.
   (J) Defensible space provisions and elevations, if required by the Utah
       Wildland Urban Interface Code adopted under Utah Code Section
       15A-2-103.
(2) Grading and drainage plan showing the following:
   (A) North arrow, scale, legend and site plan underlay.
   (B) Topography at one foot (1') intervals.
   (C) Areas of substantial earthmoving with an erosion control plan.
   (D) Location of existing watercourses, canals, ditches, springs, wells,
       culverts, and storm drains, and proposed method of dealing with all
       irrigation and wastewater.
   (E) Location of any designated floodplain and/or wetland boundaries.
   (F) Direction of stormwater flows, catch basins, inlets, outlets, waterways,
       culverts, detention basins, orifice plates, outlets to off- site facilities,
       and off site drainage facilities when necessary.
   (G) The grading and drainage plan may also include the elements listed in
       subsection 19-5-090(D)(1)(d)(4)(D) below in lieu of providing a separate
       landscape grading plan as specified in that subsection.
(3) Utility plan showing the following:
   (A) North arrow, scale, legend and site plan underlay.
   (B) All existing and proposed utilities, including, but not limited to: sewer,
       culinary water, secondary water, fire hydrants, storm drains,
       subsurface drains, gas lines, power lines, communications lines, cable
       television lines, and streetlights.
   (C) Location and dimensions of all utility easements.
   (D) A letter from sewer and water providers, addressing the feasibility
       and their requirements to serve the project.
(4) Landscaping plan A landscape plan package, consistent with the
    requirements of chapter 23 of this title, showing inclusive of the
    following:
   (A) North arrow, scale, legend and site plan underlay.
   (B) Sprinkler system layout and type of heads.
   (C) Flow rate assumed for sprinkler system.
   (D) Plant materials and location, including species and size.
   (E) Any other information required by chapter 23 of this title.
   (A) Project data, details, and specifications:
       (i) Project name and property address;
       (ii) Name of the property owner;
       (ii) Names, business addresses, phone numbers and email addresses
             of the applicant, landscape architect, and landscaping contractor;
       (iii) The scale of each drawing in both graphical and written formats;
       (iv) The date of the design, and dates of any revisions;
       (v) A north arrow; and
       (vi) Additional details and specifications from the Landscape Architect
             or Landscape Designer for tree staking, soil preparation, irrigation
             component installation, and other similar landscape work.
   (B) A detailed landscape planting plan showing:
       (i) A legend listing each symbol and line type used in the drawing;
       (ii) The location of existing and proposed buildings, walls, fences,
             utilities, amenities, property lines, sidewalks, streets, pavement,
             impervious areas, and other similar site improvements;
       (iii) The location of all existing and proposed trees two inch (2”) caliper
             and greater, plants, and landscaping materials, including the
             caliper size of each tree;
       (iv) An indication as to which existing trees, plants, and landscaping
             materials will remain and which will be removed, and the specific
             measures that will be taken to protect those that will remain
             during construction;
       (v) The botanical and common names of all trees and plants used
             within the plan; and
       (vi) The sizes and quantities of each type of tree, plant, or landscape
             material to be installed.
    (C) A detailed landscape irrigation plan, drawn at the same scale as the
        planting plan, containing the following:
        (i) Layout of the irrigation system and a legend summarizing the type
              and size of all components of the system;
        (ii) A table detailing the flow rate in gallons per minute (gpm) and
              design operating pressure in pounds per square inch (psi) for each
              irrigation valve, including a calculation of the application rate
              measured in inches of water per hour for each valve with
              sprinklers; and
        (iii) The static water pressure in psi at the point of connection to the
              public water supply.
        (iv) The location of pressure regulators within the system and the
              water pressure they will be set to.
        (v) The location of backflow prevention devices for systems utilizing
              culinary or potable water.

    (D) A landscape grading plan, drawn at the same scale as the planting
        plan, containing the following:
        (i) Property lines and street names, existing and proposed buildings,
             walls, fences, utilities, paved areas and other site improvements;
             and
        (ii) Existing and new elevation contour lines, finish grades, spot
             elevations, and the direction of storm water drainage within the
             landscaped area.
(5) Lighting plan, consistent with the requirements of chapter 20 of this title.
(6) Architectural renderings (building elevations) for all buildings showing the
    following:
   (A) Accurate front, rear, and side elevations drawn to scale.
   (B) Exterior surfacing materials and colors, including roofing material and
       color.
   (C) Outdoor lighting, furnishings and architectural accents.
   (D) Location and dimensions of all signage proposed to be attached to
       the building or structure.
(7) Floor plans for each floor of the building, including any unroofed
    balconies or patios, and any rooftop patios or landscaped space, showing
    the following:
   (A) A scaled, dimensioned, and labeled layout of the building interior,
   including the location of all walls, doors, windows, stairwells, and fixed
   furnishings.
   (B) The intended use and individual square footage of each room or area.
   (C) The calculated square footage of each floor attributable to the total
   floor area of the building and a separate calculation of the square footage
                  of any unroofed balconies or patios excluded from the total floor area
                  calculation of the building.
          e. Soils report, geotechnical reports, and geologic hazard reports as required
             elsewhere in this Title.
          f.   Drainage report including hydraulic and hydrologic storm drainage
               calculations. 100-year events may need to be accommodated in certain
               locations in the path of major drainages. See the Drainage Design Criteria for
               calculation requirements. Drainage plans shall facilitate a 10-year storm
               event. A maximum stormwater controlled release rate of 0.1 cubic feet per
               second per acre shall be the maximum permitted discharge in the Salt Lake
               County portion of Draper City. In the Utah County area of Draper City, no
               discharge shall exceed demonstrated historical flows from any drainage or
               sum of drainages. Further reductions in release rates may be required in
               situations of insufficient stormwater system capacity.
          g. Any necessary agreements with adjacent property owners regarding storm
             drainage or other pertinent matters.
          h. When the project is located within the sensitive lands overlay zone,
             additional reports as required by chapter 16 of this title.
          i.   Evidence of compliance with all applicable federal, state, and local laws and
               regulations as may be requested by the zoning administrator.
          j.   Traffic impact analysis, if requested by the city engineer or the planning
               commission.
          k. Preliminary title report or ALTA survey.
          l.   Wastewater discharge approval from South Valley water reclamation facility,
               if required by the South Valley water reclamation facility.
          m. For site plans that include new proposed streets, a letter from the Salt Lake
             County Addressing department indicating that the proposed name is both
             available and has been reserved for use by the development. Availability or
             reservation of a proposed street name with Salt Lake County does not
             constitute approval of the proposed street name or addressing from Draper
             City.
…




9-22-050: SITE DESIGN:
A. Building Placement: Building placement is integral to the site design and the overall
effect any development has on surrounding properties. Building placement shall be
carefully considered as part of the overall development review.
    1. All buildings shall be located with the main facade and main entrance facing the
        principal street to which it has frontage.
   2. Buildings located on corner lots shall orient main facades to each street and give
       equal architectural treatment to each.
   3. Buildings located on corner lots should include a prominent architectural feature of
       greater height or emphasis at the corner where the two (2) public streets meet.
   43. Buildings should shall be located as close to the front property line as possible
       considering site, use, and other constraints or requirements of this title or service
       providers.
   54. Main entrances shall be oriented toward the street rather than parking in cases
       where buildings can be located adjacent to the public right of way. Building
       placement on a site shall account for the provision of required open space,
       landscaping, facilities, services, and amenities as specified elsewhere in this title and
       be situated to take advantage of existing site characteristics that provide for privacy,
       and the beneficial exposure of the building interior to natural light and air
       circulation.

B. Context: New development shall consider the site design and building placement of
surrounding development in order to create a site which relates to its surroundings and
adds positively to the overall built environment in the site area. Additionally, all
developments shall consider natural features, such as view corridors, water channels,
topography, and vegetation, as integral features to be preserved, enhanced, and which will
contribute to the site.

C. Miscellaneous Site Considerations: The small details that sometimes become
afterthoughts of site planning and design are important factors for making aesthetically
attractive sites. The following shall be implemented during initial site planning:
   1. Landscaped areas and walls shall be used to decrease noise levels and separate
      loading and service bays from customer parking where possible. Service and
      loading bays (automotive, service, tire, etc.) should be oriented away from
      neighboring residential areas and major public streets. The general public should
      be restricted from accessing such areas when possible.
   2. Approved outdoor storage areas shall be fully screened from view using the same
      materials as the building or approved masonry fencing. Enclosures shall also be
      surrounded by landscaping to further soften their visual impact. The general public
      shall be restricted from accessing such areas.
   3. Outdoor refuse and garbage collection containers shall be fully screened from
      view using the same materials as the building or approved masonry fencing.
      Enclosures shall also be surrounded by landscaping to further soften their visual
      impact. The general public shall be restricted from accessing such areas.
   4. Shopping cart corrals are highly visible and needed to keep development sites
      safe and orderly. Corrals shall be located in fixed positions and be made of the
      same material as the building. Shopping corrals shall also contain some similar
      architectural or design features as the building.
   5. Generators and other large auxiliary equipment shall be placed at locations where
      they will be least intrusive in terms of noise, appearance, and odors, particularly
      for occupants of neighboring properties. Site plans should also consider public
      utilities equipment placement and communicate early in the planning process with
      the various public utility providers about potential utility equipment placement on
      the site.
       a. Equipment should be kept low to the ground.
       b. Exhaust systems shall not protrude above the equipment.
       c. Walls, landscaping, and other screening shall be used.
B. Service Areas, Outdoor Storage, and Screening: Screening and separation of service
   areas, utility equipment, mechanical equipment, outdoor storage areas, and other
   similar areas within a development is required. To accomplish the necessary screening
   and separation, the design of these areas shall comply with the following:
   1. Loading and service bays:
           a. Landscaped areas or walls shall be used to separate loading and service bays
               from customer parking.
           b. Loading and service bays shall be oriented away from adjacent residential
               areas and major public streets.
           c. The design and layout of loading and service bays shall be designed to
               prevent public access to them.
   2. Outdoor Storage:
           a. Outdoor storage areas shall comply with the provisions of section 9-27-030
               of this title and be screened from view in accordance with the same.
           b. The area immediately surrounding an outdoor storage enclosure shall be
               landscaped in accordance with chapter 9-23 of this title, except in locations
               necessary for vehicular access to the storage area.
           c. Outdoor storage areas shall be designed to restrict public access to them.
   3. Trash, refuse and garbage collection:
           a. The provision of outdoor containers for trash, refuse and garbage collection
               is required for all development sites.
           b. Containers for recycling collection are recommended, and if provided shall
               be subject to the same standards as trash, refuse, and garbage collection.
           c. Containers provided for trash, refuse and garbage collection shall be
               screened from view on all sides by an opaque enclosure, a minimum of six
               feet (6’) in height, built using the same materials and colors as the building,
               or the same masonry or concrete fencing utilized for the property fencing.
           d. Gates that facilitate access for trash collection trucks shall be required on
               one side of the enclosure. Gates may be constructed predominantly or
               exclusively of metal components, but must be designed and painted so as to
               be architecturally compatible with the design of the principal building(s) on
               the site, or the masonry or concrete fencing used for the enclosure.
       e. Gates that facilitate access for trash collection trucks shall not be oriented
            towards or parallel to major public streets, except where the enclosure is
            located behind or at the rear or the principal building, or more than one-
            hundred and twenty feet (120’) from the street.
       f. Gates shall remain closed, except during active collection and disposal of
            accumulated wastes. The gate and enclosure design shall incorporate
            features capable of fixing the gate in both the closed and open position.
       g. Except for the area in front of a gate, the area immediately surrounding the
            enclosure shall be landscaped in accordance with chapter 9-23 of this title.
       h. The enclosure shall be designed to prevent illegal dumping and restrict
            access by pests and nuisance animals.
       i. Enclosures for trash, refuse, and garbage collection shall not be located
            closer than ten feet (10’) to a property line.
       j. The zoning administrator may approve, or require, that a taller enclosure, be
            built up to a maximum of ten feet (10’) in height, upon finding that the
            additional height is needed to mitigate existing or potential negative impacts
            to neighboring properties, or visitors or employees.
4. Shopping cart corrals:
       a. Corrals shall be anchored to the ground at fixed locations within the parking
            areas of commercial and retail establishments that provide such carts for the
            convenience of customers.
       b. Corrals may not be located within required landscape planter islands.
5. Utilities, generators, auxiliary equipment, and mechanical systems:
       a. The location of all utility boxes, meters, generators, large auxiliary
            equipment, ground mounted building mechanical systems and the like shall
            be shown on the site plan and on the landscape planting plan.
       b. The location and placement of such equipment within a site shall provide
            mitigation of the negative impacts of noise, appearance, or odors that the
            equipment may create, particularly for occupants of neighboring properties.
       c. Equipment shall be kept low to the ground.
       d. Exhaust systems shall not protrude above the equipment.
       e. Utility boxes, utility meters, generators, other large auxiliary equipment,
            ground mounted building mechanical systems and the like shall be screened
            from public view. A combination of walls, fences, and landscaping may be
            utilized.
       f. Where walls or fences are used as screening the zoning administrator may
            approve, or require, that a taller screen or enclosure, be built up to a
            maximum of ten feet (10’) in height, upon finding that the additional height is
            needed to mitigate existing or potential negative impacts to neighboring
            properties, or visitors or employees.
       g. The proposed location, size, and operational needs of public utilities and
            utility equipment located on a development site shall be coordinated by the
            property owner or applicant together with the applicant’s architect, civil
             engineer, landscape architect or designer, and the various public utility
             providers prior to the submission of a site plan and/or landscaping plans to
             the City.
          h. Once a site plan and landscape plan have been approved by the City, any
             changes made or proposed to the location, number, or the physical size of
             above ground utility boxes, meters, generators, and other auxiliary
             equipment shall require submittal of an updated plan detailing the proposed
             changes, and must be approved in writing by the city prior to installation of
             the appurtenance(s) and/or occupancy of the building as applicable.
C. Amenities: Amenities shall be used to enhance and beautify the site and provided
   recreational areas and conveniences for patrons, visitors, residents, and employees.
   1. With the exception of developments subject to the Multiple-Family Dwelling
      Development Standards found in Chapter 32 of this title, Outdoor amenities are
      required for every development on a site with a combined building total floor area
      of twenty-thousand square feet (20,000 ft²) or greater.
   2. Outdoor amenities shall be conveniently located near entrances or other focal
      points within the development.
   3. Outdoor amenities include:
      a. Seating areas, including patios, decks, porches, benches, tables, and pergolas;
      b. Water features;
      c. Garden areas designed for active use;
      d. Pedestrian plazas;
      e. Natural open space; or
      f. Other areas designed and designated for recreational use or convenience of
          those utilizing them.
   4. Outdoor amenities shall be integrated into the overall landscape plan design.
   5. Property owners and managers shall not permit landscaping to overgrow or impede
      pedestrian paths or areas.
   6. Each development subject to the requirements of this subsection shall provide a
      minimum of two (2) amenities from the list in 9-22-050(C)(3) above and additional
      amenities as follows:
      a. Public, Civic, Municipal and Institutional uses:
             (1) One (1) additional outdoor amenity for each additional twenty thousand
                 (20,000) square feet of floor area.
      b. Commercial uses:
             (1) One (1) additional outdoor amenity for each additional thirty thousand
                 (30,000) square feet of floor area.
      c. Industrial/manufacturing uses:
             (1) One (1) additional outdoor amenity for each additional forty thousand
                 (40,000) square feet of floor area.
      d. Agricultural business, industry, or processing uses
             (1) One (1) additional outdoor amenity for each additional forty thousand
                 (40,000) square feet of floor area.
D. Landscaping: Landscaping shall be used as a tool to enhance and beautify the site, and
   the building's architecture and design comply with the site design requirements of this
   section and the landscaping requirements found in chapter 9-23.
   1. At least twenty percent (20%) of any development site shall be devoted to
      landscaping, exclusive of park strips and walkways. Additional landscaping should
      be provided as needed to achieve compatibility between differing, adjacent land
      uses, such as residential and commercial.
   2. Outdoor amenities are required for every development on a site with a combined
      building floor area totaling twenty thousand (20,000) square feet or greater.
      Outdoor amenities are designed for pedestrians and create plazas or other focal
      points that are inviting to site patrons. These amenities shall be located near
      entrances or other focal points within the development where they will be
      convenient and comfortable for users. Restaurants and other similar uses are
      encouraged to provide additional outdoor seating areas for their patrons, but shall
      not include these areas as an outdoor amenity if restricted to only paying
      customers. Outdoor amenities may include the following:
      a. Seating areas, including patios, decks, porches, benches, tables, and pergolas;
      b. Water features;
      c. Garden areas designed for active use.
   3. Landscaping shall be integrated into the design, placement, and enhancement of
      pedestrian plazas, sitting areas, walkways, flagpoles, and signs. This may be
      accomplished by giving special attention to any plantings immediately adjacent to
      pedestrian areas and walkways. This landscaping shall not overgrow or impede
      pedestrian areas but rather allow for detail and aesthetics more amenable to
      pedestrians.
   4. Vegetative ground cover should be utilized for at least eighty percent (80%) of a
      development site's frontage along any public right of way and in required landscape
      areas between a building and the park strip, not including sidewalks, trails, and
      entry points.
   5. Drought resistant shrubs and trees should be used wherever possible in
      conjunction with efficient low water use irrigation systems. A list of low water use
      plants is available from the community development department.




….
9-23-010: PURPOSE:

The purpose of this chapter is to promote the health, safety and welfare of city residents by
establishing establish minimum standards for the preservation, installation and continued
maintenance of landscaping and buffering. This chapter is intended to achieve the
following The objectives of this chapter are:
   A. To protect existing desirable and significant vegetation and trees.

   B. To promote water conservation by encouraging requiring the use of water-wise
      landscape design principles and water-conserving plantsdrought tolerant landscape
      material.

   C. To enhance the value and appearance of property by buffering land uses.

   D. To buffer and mitigate impacts between conflicting land uses. To reduce air and
      noise pollution.

   E. To maintain and improve environmental conditions by providing through mitigations
       in air, water, soil, and, noise pollution as well as reductions in solar glare, urban heat
       effect, air purification, oxygen regeneration, groundwater recharge and decreased
       stormwater runoff, noise and glare.

   F. To improve the aesthetic appearance of all development by establishing minimum
      landscaping, buffering, and site design standards that will blend with and enhance
      the natural and built environment.


9-23-020: SCOPE; EXEMPTIONS:
   A. Except as may be specifically otherwise provided elsewhere in this title, the
       standards of this chapter shall apply to all new development and to expansions and
       modifications of existing development. All landscaping, buffering and site design
       features required by this chapter and previous regulations shall be continuously
       maintained according to the approved development plans and the standards
       contained herein.
   B. Single-family dwellings and development Bona-fide agricultural uses within
       agricultural zones and Residential Agricultural zones, shall be exempt from the
       standards of this chapter. Properties and areas of a property engaged in agricultural
       industry, agricultural processing, and agricultural sales and service uses as defined
       in section 9-3-040, are not included in this exemption.
   C. Landscaping for properties containing a detached single-family or two-family
       dwellings are exempt from the standards found in sections 9-23-090, 9-23-100, 9-23-
       110, 9-23-120, 9-23-160, and the tables found in section 9-23-170, but shall comply
       with all other requirements pertaining to water wise landscaping, including the
       maintenance of street trees and park strips.



9-23-030: DEVIATIONS FROM STRICT COMPLIANCE:

   A. Deviations Authorized: Since site conditions and development constraints vary
      greatly among sites, the planning commission is authorized to approve
      landscape plans that deviate from strict compliance with the provisions of this
      chapter if it makes the findings required in subsection B of this section.
       1. Such a deviation may include the use of water wise materials in lieu of
          otherwise required materials.
       2. Any proposed deviation from the requirements of this chapter shall be:
          a. Clearly identified on the proposed landscape plan; and
          b. Accompanied by a written description of the proposed deviation showing
             how the purpose and intent of this chapter will be met by the proposed
             plan.
   B. Findings Required: The planning commission may authorize a landscape plan
      deviation only if it finds the deviation:
       1. Is consistent with the purpose of this chapter and any applicable master plan
          or ordinance;
       2. Reflects a design that conforms to the requirements of this chapter to the
          greatest extent possible and offers alternative methods for addressing the
          landscape requirement for which a deviation is being requested. Alternative
          methods may include additional fencing, berming and plant material than
          what would otherwise be required;
       3. Will not adversely affect neighboring property owners or residents;
       4. Will not adversely affect sight distance or otherwise diminish public safety;
       5. Is justified by site constraints; and
       6. Is of high quality and integrates aesthetically with the design of the primary
          buildings on site and established streetscape.


9-23-040: LANDSCAPE PLANS:

Wherever landscape Landscape plans are required by this title, such plans shall:

A. Demonstrate compliance with the provisions of this chapter;

B. Be submitted in accordance with the administrative and development review
procedures of as provided in chapter 5 of this title; and

C. Be sealed by a landscape architect licensed to practice in the state of Utah or a
landscape designer as licensed and/or permitted by the state of Utah.


9-23-050: SITE LANDSCAPE DESIGN CRITERIA:
Proposed landscape Landscape plans shall be reviewed for compliance comply with the
standards of this chapter and the following design requirements:

   A. Plant Selection and Arrangement: All elements of site development shall be
      arranged to create a safe, functional, convenient, healthful, durable and attractive
living environment for residents, tenants, workers and occupants of properties. All
sloped areas shall be stabilized against erosion by living or rock/paving landscaping
or other appropriate means as determined by the city, both during and following
development.
1. Plants and trees shall be well-suited to the microclimate and soil conditions of
     the site. Both native and locally–adapted plants are acceptable.
2. Plants with similar water needs shall be grouped together and placed on the
     same irrigation circuit in order to create irrigational system efficiency and
     prevent overwatering.
3. Areas with slopes greater than twenty five percent (25%) shall be landscaped
     with deep rooting, water-conserving plants, and shall not include turf.
4. Tree species shall be selected based on growth characteristics and site
     conditions, including available space, overhead clearance, soil conditions,
     exposure, and screening capabilities.
     a. Deciduous tree species with a broad canopy shall be utilized to provide
         shade in parking lots and above paved areas of the site, and to help screen
         large or tall objects.
     b. Where trees are required to be planted under overhead utility wires, low-
         growing trees shall be selected. Recommended species include those listed
         in the adopted Draper City approved tree list for use in parking strips
         beneath power lines.
     c. Trees planted adjacent to vehicular or pedestrian areas of the site, or in
         areas that would impede the implementation of natural surveillance as part
         of efforts to incorporate CEPTED design principles into the site, shall select
         specimens and species that allow lower tree branches to be trimmed to
         maintain the minimum clearance between the ground and the tree canopy
         for site safety, without creating detrimental impact to the health or growth
         habit of the tree.
     d. Narrow or columnar trees shall be planted in small spaces, or where awnings
         or other building features limit growth. Columnar trees may also be placed in
         the area between a building and the sidewalk, or within the right-of-way
         where there is no sidewalk, in order to provide greater visibility for natural
         surveillance.
     e. Street trees shall be planted and maintained in compliance with section 9-23-
         080 of this chapter.
5. Turf shall not cover more than twenty percent (20%) of the total landscaped area
     of non-residential landscapes unless turf areas are specifically utilized for active
     recreation such as sports fields.
6. For multiple-family and mixed use landscapes, turf shall not cover more than
     twenty percent (20%) of the total landscaped area of the site. Turf areas
     specifically designed and utilized for recreation such as sports fields are not
     included within this limit. Turf areas less than eight (8’) wide are also not
     permitted.
   7. For single-family and two-family residential properties, coverage of yard areas
      with turf shall not exceed the following:
      a. Thirty-five percent (35%) of the total combined area of front and side yard
           landscaped areas.
      b. Sixty-five percent (65%) of rear yard total landscaped area, or three thousand
           square feet (3,000 ft²), whichever is greater. Notwithstanding the sixty-five
           percent (65%) calculation, turf usage within the landscaped area of rear yards
           is limited to a maximum of ten-thousand square feet (10,000 ft²).
   8. All landscaped areas adjacent to buildings shall have trees, shrubs, or bushes
      except where entries and other paving preclude it.
   9. The particular characteristics of a tree or plant species and the locational
      relationship to the building, sightlines, underground/aboveground utilities, and
      required maintenance shall factor into the selection and placement of trees and
      plants within the landscape.


B. Buildings: Buildings shall be located to ensure the provision of adequate open space
   for outdoor living areas, facilities, services and amenities and to provide natural
   indoor light, air and privacy.

   1. All buildings, other structures, and parking lots shall be located to integrate with
      the natural topography and to minimize deep cuts and fills, excessive foundation
      wall depth, unnecessary steps, use of vertical retaining walls, and steep access
      gradients.

   2. All areas adjacent to buildings should have vertical landscaping (trees, shrubs,
      bushes, etc.) except where entries and other paving preclude it.

C. Circulation: Safe and convenient pedestrian and vehicular circulation shall be
   provided.

BD. Climate: Site layout and design shall include the placement of trees, plants, shrubs
   and other landscape features in locations that mitigate the negative effects of
   extreme or elevated temperatures, sunlight, wind, and other climatic factors should
   be mitigated by appropriate site layout and design, including placement of
   landscaping.

CE. Grading: Site grading shall be designed and implemented to:

   1. Retain existing desirable major trees and vegetation within required perimeter
      planting areas, land use buffers, yards and other areas of the site identified by
      the landscape architect or landscape designer for protection and preservation
      whenever possible;

   2. Make use of existing natural drainage waysdrainageways;

   3. Minimize increased runoff and erosion; and
   4. Buffer objectionable noise and/or views.

F. Integration: Landscaping design should be integrated with building and site design.
   Consideration should be given to planting types, growth rates, canopy sizes and
   required maintenance in relationship to building location, sightlines and
   underground/aboveground utilities.


DG. Water Wise Landscape Techniques: The use of water wise Water-wise landscape
   practices to minimize the need for supplemental watering is are required strongly
   encouraged. Landscape plans should reflect and shall implement the following
   techniques:
   1. Using plant materials plants with comparatively low moisture water usage needs
      requirements;
   2. Selecting plants on the basis of specific slope, aspect, soil and microclimate
      conditions;
   3. Using native and adapted plant species;
   4. Minimizing the amount of irrigated turf area;
   5. Planting and designing slopes to minimize runoff;
   6. Separating irrigation zones according to plant water requirements and using
      drip/trickle irrigation systems to conserve water;
   7. Emphasizing soil improvement Conserving existing topsoil, and making
      additional improvements to the soil by conserving topsoil, deeply loosening soil,
      and incorporating organic matter and amendments based on soil tests; and
   8. Using mulch in planting areas to reduce weed growth, promote soil cooling, and
      reduce evaporation.

EH. Storm Water Infrastructure: Detention and retention basins shall be landscaped
   and maintained. The use of low impact development systems and techniques to
   encourage infiltration, evapotranspiration and reuse of storm water is required.

F. Landscape Amounts: Except where a lesser amount is specified elsewhere in this
   title, at least twenty percent (20%) of the gross area of all non-residential and mixed
   use development sites shall be devoted to landscaping. Required landscaping in
   park strips and other similar areas within the right-of-way are not included in this
   total.

G. Plant Coverage: Live plant materials for developments subject to this chapter shall
   cover a minimum of fifty percent (50%) of the landscaped area within the first two
   (2) growing seasons following planting, and a minimum of seventy-five percent
   (75%) of the landscaped area at ten (10) years, except for planting beds for annual
   which must comply with the standards of subsection 9-23-050(G)(2) below . For non-
   residential, mixed use, and multiple-family properties, the landscape architect or
     landscape designer shall also calculate and include the plant coverage rates as
     notations on the landscape planting plan, in accordance with the following:

     1. Tree and plant symbols shown within the site layout of a landscape planting plan
        shall be scaled to indicate their typical coverage or spread at their full mature
        size or at a size equivalent to their size at ten (10) years from planting, whichever
        comes first.

     2. Planting beds exclusively for annual and/or biennial plants shall not exceed
        twenty percent (20%) of the landscaped area of the site (excluding turf and
        groundcover areas). Planting beds that include annual or biennial plantings shall
        be planted each year with sufficient plants to create a minimum annual coverage
        with live plan materials of seventy-five percent (75%) of the area of the planting
        bed at the time the annual or biennial plants reach maturity. The planting plan
        shall reflect the initial planting layout. Planting beds shall be replanted annually
        each spring and shall be maintained through the growing season. Permanent
        irrigation systems shall also be designed and installed to accommodate the
        annual plants.

H. Species Diversity: Landscape planting plans shall include a variety of plant, shrub,
   and tree species in order to provide visual and biological diversity within the
   landscape and as a safeguard against the detrimental effects that might occur
   should a particular plant or species succumb to disease. The following minimum
   rules regarding species diversity shall apply:

     1. No species of plant or shrub, shall account for more than twenty percent (20%)
        of the total coverage area of all plants and shrubs within the landscape planting
        plan.

     2. Except as provided in 9-23-050(J)(3) below, no species of tree shall account for
        more than twenty-five percent (25%) of the total number of trees within the
        landscape planting plan.

     3. Up to fifty percent (50%) of the trees on sites with ten (10) or fewer trees
        required, may be of a single species. Trees may be of a single species where the
        site landscape planting plan includes three (3) or fewer trees.

I.   Soil Preparation: Soil preparation shall be suitable for providing healthy growing
     conditions for the plants and encourage water infiltration and penetration. Soil
     preparation shall include scarifying the soil to a depth of six inches (6”) or greater
     and amending the soil with fertilizer and/or other organic material. The landscape
     architect or landscape designer shall be responsible for determining the type,
     quantity, and rate of soil amendments to be added to each planting area within the
       landscape plans and including the specific details on the landscape plans. For non-
       residential, mixed-use, and multi-family properties, the landscape architect or
       landscape designer shall have a laboratory analysis of the site soils composition
       preformed to inform their determination of the appropriate soil amendments for
       each area with respect to the nutrient needs of the selected plants.


9-23-055: IRRIGATION DESIGN STANDARDS:
        A. Irrigation: A Landscape Irrigation Plan designed in accordance with the standards
found in this section are required and shall be included together with each submitted
Landscape Planting Plan. A program schedule for each irrigation circuit indicating the time
and duration of watering cycles necessary for both initial plant establishment and long
term water needs of the installed landscaping shall also be included.
        B. Pressure Regulation: A pressure regulating valve shall be installed as part of the
irrigation system design and shall be maintained by the property owner in areas where the
static service pressure from the water meter exceeds eighty pounds per square inch (80
PSI). The pressure-regulating valve shall be located between the water meter and the first
point of water use, or first point of division in the pipe, and shall be set at the
manufacturer's recommended pressure for the sprinklers.
        C. Irrigation Controller: Landscaped areas shall be provided with a WaterSense/EPA-
certified labeled smart irrigation controller which automatically adjusts the frequency
and/or duration of irrigation events in response to changing weather conditions, including
but not limited to automatic rain delay or shut-off, and automatic wind delay or shut-off
capabilities.
        D. Each valve shall irrigate a landscaped area with similar site, slope and soil
conditions and plant materials with similar watering needs. Turf and non-turf areas shall
be irrigated on separate valves. Drip emitters and sprinklers shall be placed on separate
valves.
        E. Drip emitters or a bubbler shall be provided for each tree. Bubblers shall not
exceed 1.5 gallons per minute per device. Bubblers and drip emitters used for trees shall
be placed on a separate valve from other plants and shrubs.
        F. Drip irrigation and/or bubblers shall be used to irrigate all non-turf landscape
areas.
        G. Pop-up sprinkler heads used to irrigate turf areas shall pop-up a minimum of
four inches (4”) and must clear the top level of the turf.
        H. Sprinklers shall have matched precipitation rates with each control valve circuit.
        I. Sprinkler heads shall be attached to rigid lateral lines with flexible swing joints to
reduce potential for breakage.
        J. Check valves shall be required where elevation differences cause low-head
drainage. Pressure compensating valves and sprinklers shall be required where a
significant variation in water pressure occurs within the irrigation system due to elevation
differences.
        K. Filters and end flush valves shall be provided for drip irrigation lines.
       L. Valves with sprinklers shall be scheduled to operate between 6 p.m. and 10 a.m.
       M. Valves shall be programmed to water plants for multiple short cycles with a rest
or soak period between cycles to reduce runoff in areas with slow infiltration rates and
where slopes are equal to or greater than fifteen percent (15%).



9-23-070: TREE AND VEGETATION PROTECTION:

Development shall be designed to preserve existing trees and vegetation to the greatest
extent possible and shall incorporate existing significant stands of trees as well as
individual trees. Specimen preservation may be required for existing trees being a caliper
of four inches (4") or more measured four feet (4') aboveground. Existing trees and
vegetation that are to be preserved shall be identified on site plans and preliminary
subdivision plats and shall be protected from all construction activities, including
earthwork operations, movement and storage of equipment and materials and dumping of
toxic materials. A minimum protection zone shall be established by installing temporary
fencing at or beyond the drip line of the vegetation to be preserved. Protective fencing shall
be maintained throughout the construction period.

   A. Development and landscape designs shall be designed to preserve existing trees
      and vegetation within the areas of required perimeter plantings, land use buffers,
      and yards.
   B. Existing trees and vegetation located within the areas described in subsection 9-23-
      070(A) above shall be preserved and may not be removed, except as provided for in
      subsection 9-23-070(F) below.
   C. Existing trees four inches (4”) in caliper or greater and vegetation located within the
      areas described in subsection 9-23-070(A) above shall be identified on site plans
      and preliminary subdivision plat including the caliper measurement of each tree.
   D. A minimum protection zone shall be established on the site plan or preliminary
      subdivision plat around each tree or vegetated area at or beyond the drip line of
      the trees or vegetation to be preserved.
   E. Prior to the commencement of grading or construction activities on a site the
      developer shall install temporary protective fencing around the perimeter of the
      tree and vegetation protection zones identified on the site plan or preliminary
      subdivision plat. The developer shall be responsible to see that the trees and
      vegetation being fenced are protected from construction activities, including
      earthwork operations, the movement and storage of equipment and materials,
      and/or the dumping of chemicals.
   F. The zoning administrator may permit the removal of existing trees and vegetation
      under the following conditions:
       1. All existing trees and vegetation proposed for removal must be indicated as such
          on the site plan or subdivision preliminary plat.
       2. Existing trees and/or vegetation located within the required perimeter planting,
          land use buffer, or yard area may not be removed, except where:
          a. Planned vehicular or pedestrian access to or on the property necessitates the
              removal of specific trees or areas of existing vegetation;
          b. Necessary site grading to control storm water requires the removal of
              specific trees or areas of existing vegetation;
          c. The developer or property owner provides written certification from a
              certified arborist that an existing tree is diseased, dead, dying or is an
              invasive species and should be removed;
          d. Additional tree and plant installation for screening or buffering is required in
              the same area and the preservation of the existing vegetation (not including
              existing trees) would prevent or inhibit installation of the required
              landscaping; or
          e. The location or other characteristic of an existing tree is causing or is likely to
              cause a nuisance or damage to adjoining properties. The dropping or
              blowing of leaves, needles, cones, or seeds shall not be considered a
              nuisance under this section.




9-23-080: PARK STRIP LANDSCAPING:
All park strips shall be landscaped pursuant to applicable requirements of title 17 of this
code and other applicable provisions of this code the following.
    1. Street Trees:
        a. New subdivision and site development shall provide street trees from the
            adopted Draper City street tree guide when they do not currently exist.
        b. Street trees shall not be located within park strips less than five feet (5’) wide.
        c. Street trees shall be provided at a minimum ratio of one (1) tree for each forty
            feet (40’) of street frontage.
        d. Street trees shall be at least two inches (2”) in caliper at time of planting.
        e. In areas where there is no sidewalk or no park strip between the sidewalk and
            curb, street trees shall be installed within fifteen feet (15') of the right-of-way.
        f. Pursuant to the chapter 9-7 of this title, the city may enforce the installation or
            replacement of required street trees which are dead or dying, have been
            removed, or were not installed in compliance with the ordinance in place at the
            time of the development, or approved plans.
    2. Additional Landscaping:
            a. In park strips five feet (5’) wide or greater, perineal plants, shrubs, and
                vegetation, shall also be installed in addition to the street trees.
          b. Plantings in park strips five feet (5’) wide or greater shall provide a minimum
              fifty percent (50%) coverage of the park strip area, the balance of the area
              not planted, shall consist of mulch applied over a weed barrier.
          c. Turf grass may not be planted in park strips equal to or less than eight feet
              (8’) in width.
   3. Maintenance: Individual property owners are responsible for the irrigation and
      maintenance of required street trees and other vegetation pursuant to Section 9-23-
      140. Street trees shall be irrigated through the use of bubblers or drip irrigation
      except in instances where irrigation heads are necessary for irrigating other park
      strip landscaping, and supplemental watering by hand or other device for street
      trees can be provided as needed.



9-23-090: PERIMETER LANDSCAPING: This section is applicable to all developments not
otherwise exempted under the provisions of section 9-23-020 of this title. Perimeter
landscaping shall be required as follows:

Plantings as specified in section 9-23-170, tables 9-23-1 and 9-23-2 of this chapter, shall be
provided around the perimeter of each development site, except single-family and duplex
lots, based on the orientation of property and the classification of the roads adjacent to the
site. Perimeter plantings may be located anywhere between the property line and adjacent
pavement or structure, in a landscaped area of the minimum horizontal depth designated.
However, the minimum number of shade trees along street frontages should be located
within fifteen feet (15') of the right of way or as close to the right of way as site features
allow. The minimum depth of the perimeter landscaped area along front, rear and interior
lot lines shall be ten feet (10'). In instances where the minimum building setback is allowed
to be zero per this title, no perimeter landscaping is required between a building and the
front property line in order to encourage building presence in the streetscape. Where the
requirements of a land use buffer along the same property line exceed those of the
perimeter plantings, the land use buffer requirements shall supersede.
   A. The perimeter of each development site, with the exception of single-family and two-
       family development, shall be landscaped as specified in section 9-23-170, tables 9-23-
       1 and 9-23-2 of this chapter.
   B. The minimum depth of the perimeter landscaped area along front, rear and interior
       lot lines shall be ten feet (10').
   C. Where the requirements of a land use buffer along the same property line exceed
       those of the perimeter plantings, the land use buffer requirements shall supersede.
   D. In instances where the front building setback is zero as permitted per this title, no
       perimeter landscaping is required between the front of the building and the front
       property line.
   E. The zoning administrator may permit an exception to strict compliance with
       subsection B of this section when:
          1. The existing or proposed building is or will be located closer to the property
             line than 10 feet;
          2. An alternative landscaping plan has been proposed for the area between the
             building and the property line; and
          3. The alternative plan substantially complies with the intent of the perimeter
             landscaping requirements within the available landscape area.

9-23-100: PARKING LOT LANDSCAPING:
Except for developments exempted under section 9-23-020 of this title, every Every parking
lot with more than ten (10) spaces and three thousand five hundred (3,500) square feet shall
contain internal landscaped areas based on the following design criteria:

   A. Amount Of Landscaping: The Except in zoning districts where a different amount is
      specified, the amount of landscaping on within each parking lot shall be as shown
      below. follows: When lots are provided on a multiuse site, the amount shall be
      determined based on the predominant use served by the parking spaces. Total
      parking lot area shall be measured along the perimeter of the lot, including all
      parking spaces, accessways, and landscaped islands within the perimeter and at the
      corners of the lot. Total parking lot area shall not include loading and service areas,
      but shall include customer service drive-up areas and accessways jointly used by
      parking lot and service traffic:
      1. Multiple-family residential sites: Ten percent (10%) of total parking lot area.
      2. Office and commercial sites: Seven percent (7%) of total parking lot area.
      3. Industrial or warehouse sites: Five percent (5%) of total parking lot area
      4. For mixed-use sites, the amount shall be determined based on the predominant
         use based on the square footage of the building(s) served by the parking spaces.
   B. Design: Parking lot islands shall be at least five feet (5') wide and one hundred (100)
      square feet in area. A minimum of one tree shall be planted per three hundred
      (300) square feet of overall internal landscaped area, with at least one shade tree
      planted in each island. The remainder of the island shall be landscaped with
      additional shrubs, ground cover, or turf, and shall include an appropriate irrigation
      system. Plants and trees may be grouped in order to create larger landscaped area.
      Plantings should:
      1. Anticipate foot traffic patterns;
      2. Be used to discourage foot traffic where dictated by safety concerns; and
      3. Not impair adequate visibility for the safety of pedestrians and vehicles.

       Calculations:
          1. Total parking lot area shall be calculated along the perimeter of the lot,
              including all parking spaces, access ways, and landscaped islands within the
              perimeter and at the corners of the lot, as demonstrated in Figure 9-23-1
              below. A chart with the calculations shall be included on the site plan. Total
              parking lot area shall not include building footprints or applicable loading
             and service areas, but shall include customer service drive-up areas and
             access ways used jointly by those utilizing the parking lot and service traffic.
          2. Landscaping areas within the parking lot area shall be calculated exclusive of
             impervious paving and curbing, but shall include the area of required
             outdoor amenities located within the parking lot perimeter (if any).
          3. For purposes of compliance with this section, parking area landscaping shall
             be calculated independently from overall site area landscaping, but shall also
             count towards the required percentage of overall site area landscaping.
FIGURE 9-23-1




C. Location: Islands shall be located in the following priority: Location and Design:
   1. To define major drives and accessways;
   2. To delineate ends of parking rows;
   3. At aisle intersections; and
   4. Within parking rows.

       1. Location: Parking lot landscaping shall be provided:
          a. As a landscaped island at the end of parking rows;
          b. Between rows of head-to-head parking stalls;
          c. As landscaped islands within rows of parking stalls;
          d. At aisle intersections; and
          e. Along major drives and access ways.

      2. Design:
          a. The design of the planting plan layout for the parking area shall:
             (1) Address expected foot traffic patterns;
             (2) Mitigate expected pedestrian safety concerns;
             (3) Provide necessary visibility for the safety of pedestrians and vehicles;
             (4) Include water wise landscaping techniques, including but not limited to
                 plant selection and low impact design elements; and
             (5) Address the expected snow removal and snow storage needs of the
                 parking area.
          b. Landscaped islands within the parking lot area shall be at least five feet (5')
             wide and one hundred (100) square feet in area, and shall include the
             following:
             (1) A minimum of one tree shall be planted in each island;
             (2) Additional landscaping with shrubs, ground cover, or planting beds to
                 achieve a minimum of 50% coverage by plants at maturity (plants and
                 trees may be grouped); and
             (3) Drip irrigation adequate to meet tree and plant needs.
          c. No more than fifteen (15) parking stalls may be in a row between
             landscaping islands as shown in figure 9-23-2 below.

FIGURE 9-23-2
Parking Area Landscaping Islands




      d. Rows of head-to-head parking shall be separated by landscaping of at least nine
         feet (9') in width as shown in figure 9-23-3 below. If wheel stops are included to
           prevent vehicles from overhanging the landscaping, the minimum width can be
           reduced down five feet (5’).

FIGURE 9-23-3
Parking Row Dividing Landscaping




       e. All parking area landscaping and landscaping adjacent to parking areas shall be
          bordered and separated from the parking area by minimum six inch (6") high
          back concrete curbing. Sections of curbing may be non-contiguous or eliminated
          in order to implement low impact development (LID) storm water features within
          the development. Where high back curbing is eliminated as part of a LID design,
          the installation of wheel stops will be required between the parking stall and
          adjacent landscaping to prevent the intrusion of automobiles into the
          landscaped areas.

9-23-110: LAND USE BUFFERS:
Except for developments exempted under section 9-23-020 of this title, land Land use
buffers shall be provided along the side and rear property lines of commercial, multifamily,
and industrial properties to enhance community appearance and welfare by protecting
residents and visitors from the traffic, noise, glare, trash, activity, vibration, odor, visual
disorder and other adverse or harmful effects typically associated with such land uses.
    A. Land Use Buffer Requirements: The amount of landscaping and type of fencing
       required for a land use buffer shall be as follows:
       1. A landscape buffer of twenty feet (20') shall be provided between all commercial
           and office uses when located adjacent to a residential zone and when a multi-
           family use is located adjacent to a single-family zone.
       2. A landscape buffer of thirty feet (30') shall be provided between industrial uses
           and residential uses or zones.
       3. Trees within the buffer area described in 9-23-110(A)(1) and (2) above shall be
           planted at one tree per four hundred (400) square feet of buffer area.
           a. Trees may be grouped.
      b. At least one buffer tree shall be planted between commercial, office, multi-
           family and industrial uses and each single-family residential lot. Trees shall
           be arranged to provide linear coverage between commercial, office and
           industrial uses and adjacent residential units.
   4. The rest of the buffer area shall consist of ground covers, shrubs and planting
      beds, wherein a maximum of seventy five percent (75%) of the buffer area may
      be planted with ground covers.
   5. A six foot (6') tall, solid, sight obscuring fence constructed of masonry, precast
      concrete, or lightweight precast fiber reinforced concrete shall be used between
      abutting commercial, industrial, or office land uses and residential zones. Except
      for required footings or foundations, the fence shall extend from the adjacent
      finish grade of the property upward to the required height. Any gaps between
      the bottom of the fence panel and the adjacent finish grade of the property may
      not exceed four inches (4"). Such gaps are not counted towards the total
      required height of the fence. The height of fences shall be reduced in clear view
      triangle areas or where they may impact sight visibility with a driveway as
      specified in section 9-27-080.
B. Exemptions: No land use buffer shall be required between land uses located in the
   same zone.
C. Reductions:
   1. The zoning administrator or designee may reduce land use buffer requirements
      based on the character of specific uses, building orientations, topographic
      features, or other unique characteristics of adjoining uses. A reduced buffer
      shall consist of a minimum ten foot (10') wide landscape buffer and an eight foot
      (8') tall, solid, sight obscuring fence in compliance with all other specifications
      of 9-23-110(A)(5). In approving reductions under this section the zoning
      administrator shall not reduce the tree and plant requirements of subsections 9-
      23-110 (A)(3) and (4).
   2. The planning commission may approve additional deviations to landscape buffer
      requirements if all of the following criteria are met:
   a. Physical site features preclude strict compliance. In this case an alternative
      landscaping scheme shall be provided which meets or exceeds the intent of the
      code;
   b. Additional landscaping equal to the amount of the reduction from the buffer size
      requirements of 9-23-110(A)(1) and (2) shall be added to the overall site to
      compensate for any approved reduction in buffer widths, landscaping equal to
      or exceeding the proportional standards of 9-23-110(A)(3) and (4) shall be
      required in both the reduced buffer area and the area(s) of the overall site
      where the compensatory landscaping is provided;
   c. An eight foot (8') tall, solid, sight obscuring fence is provided in compliance with
      all other specifications of 9-23-110(A)(5); and
   d. In no case shall a landscape buffer be less than five feet (5') in width.
   D. Relationship To Other Requirements: When the requirements of a land use buffer
      exceed those of other requirements along a property line, the land use buffer
      requirements shall apply.
   E. Existing Buffer Vegetation And Trees: Retention of existing shrubs, trees, plants and
      groundcovers plant material is strongly encouraged in within land use buffers is
      required. Existing trees and vegetative ground covers should be retained where
      possible by avoiding scrapingScraping, grading, sodding and other construction
      activity within the land use buffer area shall be avoided. Where land use buffer
      development standards call for additional trees or shrubs to be installed in an
      existing landscaped area land use buffer, it should be done in a manner which
      precautions shall be taken, such as the installation of temporary fencing or roping
      off of the area to minimize minimizes disturbance to existing trees and shrubs
      plants. A proposed landscape plan that does not include retention of all existing
      shrubs, trees, plants and groundcovers within a land use buffer may be approved
      by, the zoning administrator if: In determining whether existing trees and vegetation
      qualify as satisfying a land use buffer standards, the planning commission shall
      consider all of the following factors:
      1. The type and quality of the existing vegetation is of poor quality or health as
          determined by a qualified arborist or horticulturist and/or is of a species or type
          that is unsuitable for meeting the objectives of the land use buffer being
          preserved; and
      2. The effectiveness of the proposed landscaping will be more effective at
          providing the intended visual screening. that will be provided;
      3. The extent to which the proposed buffer makes use of existing topography and
          vegetation; and
      4. The ability and availability to relocate existing, healthy, non-invasive, drought
          tolerant vegetation that would otherwise be removed from the site to a land use
          buffer.
   F. Compatibility Of Plantings: Supplemental buffer plantings shall be compatible with
      any existing vegetation within the buffer area.
   G. Development Within Land Use Buffers: Land use buffers may contain nonmotorized
      trails. In no event shall structures or uses, such as, but not limited to, play fields,
      stables, swimming pools, golf courses, tennis courts, parking lots and vehicular use
      areas, generators, trash receptacle enclosures, equipment storage and other open
      storage, or buildings be permitted within land use buffers.

9-23-120: SITE FEATURE BUFFERING AND SCREENING:
Except for developments exempted under section 9-23-020 of this title, site Site features,
such as, but not limited to, the following, shall be effectively screened from the view of as
seen from adjacent roadways and adjacent sites by berms, fences, walls and/or plant
material in compliance with the site design requirements of section 9-22-050 and the
following landscape standards:
A. Trash Receptacle Enclosures: Trash receptacle enclosures shall be screened from
   view by walls or fences in residential developments and by masonry walls in all
   types of developments. The fence or wall shall:
   1. Be a minimum of six feet (6') in height;
   2. Provide complete visual screening of the receptacle; and
   3. Be compatible in material and color with the main building on the lot or parcel
   1. Evergreen shrubs shall be utilized and shall be provided at a minimum rate of
   one (1) shrub for each five lineal feet (5’) of enclosure as measured around the
   perimeter, excluding gates.
   2. Evergreen shrubs utilized for screening the enclosure shall be a minimum height
   of eighteen inches (18") at the time of planting, and of a species capable of growing
   to a height equal to or greater than the height of the enclosure.




B. Service And Loading Areas: Service and loading areas shall be screened by
   perimeter plantings or, when required, by land use buffers. In order to better
   screen these areas, a concentration of required plantings may be required adjacent
   to these features.
   1. Shrubs used for the purpose of screening service and loading areas, shall
       include evergreen shrubs, either exclusively or mixed.
   2. All shrubs shall be minimum height of eighteen inches (18") at the time of
       planting, and of a species capable of growing to a height of at least four feet (4’).

C. Ground Mounted Utility Boxes, Meters And Mechanical Equipment: Ground
   mounted utility boxes, meters, and mechanical equipment shall be screened from
   off site view by landscaping or architectural elements compatible in material and
   color with the primary structure. Screening requirements may be waived in rear and
   rear side yard locations when adjacent to other service or mechanical areas, or
   when not subject to primary views from off site. This requirement shall not apply in
   agricultural and single-family residential development.
       1. Evergreen shrubs shall be used for the purpose of screening ground
           mounted mechanical equipment, utility meters, other utility equipment and
           boxes, and similar areas or appurtenances.
       2. Except as provided for in 9-23-120(C)(5) below, evergreen shrubs shall be
           planted no further than five feet (5’) from the appurtenance they are
           screening.
           a. Minimum clearances between equipment and plantings established by
               utility companies or manufacturers shall be adhered to. Where minimum
               clearances require screening to be placed further than five feet (5’) from
               the appurtenance additional plantings will be required to achieve the
               same or greater ratio of screening coverage that would have been
               achieved with plants being placed within feet (5’).
          3. The evergreen shrubs shall be a minimum height of eighteen inches (18") at
             the time of planting, and of a species capable of growing to a height equal to
             or greater than the height of the equipment, enclosure, or appurtenance
             they are screening.
          4. A minimum of four (4) evergreen shrubs shall be required for each box or
             appurtenance located within the landscape and plantings shall be planted
             with additional evergreen shrubs so that each side of the box otherwise
             visible to a street or neighboring properties is screened.



   D. Roof Mounted Mechanical Equipment: All roof mounted mechanical equipment
      shall be concealed on all sides by elements that are an integral part of the building
      design and which are equal to or greater in height than the mechanical equipment.



9-23-130: TREE AND LANDSCAPE MATERIAL STANDARDS:

Minimum required tree and landscape material standards shall be as follows:

   A. General: Trees and plants used in landscape design pursuant to this chapter shall,
      to the greatest extent possible, be:

      1. Water wise and droughtDrought tolerant;

      2. Appropriate for the setting in which they are to be planted Planted in areas
         where the recommended soil nutrients, water, and sun exposure are available;

      3. Have noninvasive growth habits Noninvasive;

      4. Have low Low maintenance characteristics and provide high quality appearance;
         and

      5. Be commercially available.

   B. Plant Quality: PlantsAll plants and trees installed pursuant to this chapter shall
      conform to or exceed the plant quality standards of the most recent edition of
      "American Standard For Nursery Stock, ANSI Z60.1", published by the American
      Nursery And Landscape Association.

   C. Artificial PlantsTurf: Artificial turf installed over a permeable base surface may be
      used in lieu of actual turf. Artificial turf must be regularly maintained according to
      manufacturer specifications and shall be replaced once its functional lifespan has
      been reached. No other artificial plants or vegetation shall be used to meet any
      standards of this chapter.

   D. Tree Diameter And Height:
   1. For the purpose of this subsection D, "caliper" means a trunk diameter
      measurement for nursery grown trees taken six inches (6") above the ground up
      to and including four inch (4") caliper size. If the caliper at six inches (6") above
      the ground exceeds four inches (4"), the caliper shall be measured at twelve
      inches (12") above the ground.

   21. Shade Decidious trees planted to satisfy the standards of this chapter shall have
       a minimum caliper of two inches (2").

   3. Ornamental trees planted to satisfy the standards of this chapter shall have a
      minimum height of six feet (6') or a minimum caliper of one and one half inches
      (1-1/2 “). Ornamental trees shall be a species that has flowers, colored foliage, or
      a unique growth habit or other distinguishing characteristic that adds variety to
      the overall landscape plan.

   42. Evergreen trees planted to satisfy the standards of this chapter shall have a
       minimum height of six feet (6').

E. Deciduous And Evergreen Shrubs: Shrubs required as part of a land use buffer or
   adjacent to parking lots in perimeter plantings shall have a minimum height of
   eighteen inches (18") at the time of planting. Shrubs in other areas may be of a size
   determined by the applicant unless otherwise indicated by this chapter.

       1. Shrubs utilized in a non-residential, mixed use, or multiple-family landscape
          plan shall be from nursery stock, a minimum size of three (3) gallons, or
          container class #3, at the time of planting.
       2. Shrubs required as part of a land use buffer or adjacent to parking lots in
          perimeter plantings shall have a minimum height of eighteen inches (18") at
          the time of planting.
       3. In parking lots where potential light trespass from vehicular headlights would
          be directed towards adjoining residential properties or streets, evergreen
          shrubs shall be planted in a continuous row or hedge following the same
          standards for perimeter plantings along street frontages adjacent to parking
          lots contained in Table 9-23-1, and block light from being projected onto the
          adjoining residential property or street.

F. Ground Treatment: The ground area within required landscape areas shall receive
   landscape treatment and present a finished appearance and reasonably complete
   coverage upon planting. Areas not planted with trees, shrubs, or bedding plants
   shall be sodded, except as set forth for in this subsection.
   1. Lawn areas in commercial and industrial zones shall be sodded with a species
      suitable as permanent lawns in the city. Other lawn areas may be seeded and
      shall be maintained until coverage is well established.
   2. Ground cover may be planted in lieu of sod. Ground cover shall be of a size and
      spacing to provide a minimum of fifty percent (50%) coverage after the first full
            growing season and complete coverage at maturity. Edging shall be provided for
            all ground cover.
        1. The ground area within landscape areas shall present a finished appearance
            with a balanced distribution of plantings across each planting area.
        32. Bark or rock mMulch shall be installed and maintained at a minimum depth of
            three inches (3") on all planted areas except where ground cover plants are fully
            established and provide for complete coverage of the area. Mulch may be
            approved as a permanent ground treatment in landscape designs where ground
            cover or sod turf is impractical. Rock mulch with an accompanying weed barrier
            may be used in a limited way when appropriate to a design concept and as a
            ground treatment in areas where drainage is a problem; provided, that the use
            of rock adjacent to buildings shall be minimized.
        3. Rock Mulch with an accompanying weed barrier may be used in a limited way as
            a ground treatment in areas where typical water drainage from the site would
            create conditions unsuitable for plant survival, or adjacent to buildings where
            plantings could create a health, safety, or operational hazard near entrances.
            The use of this type of treatment adjacent to non-residential and mixed-use
            buildings may not exceed ten percent (10%) of the landscape planting area
            located within ten feet (10’) of the building.
        4. Landscape edging shall be used to separate planting beds from turf and other
            areas predominantly planted with groundcovers, and shall also be provided at
            the transition between all mulched areas, ground covers, and turf.

….



9-23-140: INSTALLATION, INSPECTIONIRRIGATION, MAINTENANCE AND
REPLACEMENT:

Any required Required landscaping shall be installed, maintained, irrigated and replaced in
accordance with the following standards:

     A. Installation: All landscaping and buffering shall be installed according to sound
        nursery practices in a manner designed to encourage vigorous growth.

     B. Irrigation: Landscape areas shall be irrigated as necessary to maintain required
        plant materials in good and healthy condition, while at the same time avoiding
        water waste through inefficient irrigation.

     C. Maintenance: Landowners and their successors in interest shall be jointly and
        severally responsible for all of the following:

        1. Regular maintenance of all landscape areas, including park strips, in good
           condition and in a way that presents a healthy, neat and orderly appearance. All
           landscaping shall be maintained free from disease, pests, weeds and litter. This
       maintenance shall include weeding, watering, fertilizing, pruning, mowing,
       edging, mulching or other maintenance, in accordance with acceptable
       horticultural practices.

   2. The repair or replacement of landscape structures (e.g., walls, fences) to a
      structurally sound condition and original appearance.

   3. Perpetual maintenance to prohibit the reestablishment of undesirable and
      harmful species within landscape and preservation areas.

   4. Regular maintenance, repair or replacement of any plant material, screening or
      buffering required by this chapter in conjunction with approved plans. Any
      landscaping required to be planted or preserved by this chapter shall be
      replaced with the largest available equivalent vegetation. The city may require
      that any dead trees, shrubs and plants be replaced within the current or next
      planting season.



B. Designers and installers for all commercial, industrial, institutional, civic, mixed use,
   and multiple-family residential sites shall meet all applicable State and local license,
   insurance, and bonding requirements and be able to show proof of such upon
   request.
      1. Upon completion of the landscape installation, the landscape architect or
          landscape designer responsible for creating and stamping the plans shall
          inspect the installation and provide a signed certificate of substantial
          completion to the property owner or applicant and to the city.
      2. After receiving the certificate of substantial completion from the landscape
          architect or landscape designer, the property owner or applicant shall
          schedule a landscape inspection with the Community Development
          Department for verification of ordinance compliance. If an improvement
          completion assurance has been previously posted, this step must be
          completed before any refunds are issued.
C. Maintenance and Replacement:

   1. Property owners shall be responsible for the regular maintenance of all
      landscape areas of their property, including adjacent park strips, in a way that
      presents a healthy, neat and orderly appearance. All landscaping shall be
      maintained free from disease, pests, weeds and litter. This maintenance shall
      include but is not limited to weeding, watering, fertilizing, pruning, mowing,
      edging, mulching, and etcetera, in accordance with generally accepted
      horticultural best practices.

   2. Property owners shall be responsible for maintenance, repair or replacement of
      landscape structures (e.g., walls, fences) in a structurally sound condition and in
      a neat in appearance without substantial deterioration.
       3. Property owners shall actively prevent the establishment of undesirable and
          harmful plant and tree species within landscape and preservation areas through
          ongoing maintenance, including weeding, to prevent germination, growth and
          establishment of such plant and tree species, and prompt removal and disposal
          of such species once discovered.

       4. Property owners shall promptly replace any tree or plant material required by
          this chapter or shown on approved plans that is diseased, dead or dying and
          unable to be restored to health. Replacement trees shall have a minimum
          caliper of two inches (2”). Any perennial landscaping required to be planted or
          preserved by this chapter that dies or is otherwise removed shall be replaced
          with vegetation which complies with the minimum size and other characteristics
          required at the time of initial installation, or larger specimens as available.

       5. The City may enforce maintenance, replacement, removal or installation of
          required landscaping or landscape structure, including compliance with
          approved landscape and irrigation plans in accordance with the statutes found
          in chapter 9-7 of this title. If enforcement actions require the planting of new or
          replacement tree or plant materials, the zoning administrator may specify the
          timing of the planting so as to occur during the current or following growing
          season at a time most likely to increase the likelihood of survival of the plantings
          or trees.

…

9-23-160: TEMPORARY SUSPENSION OF LANDSCAPING INSTALLATION:

Except as exempted from compliance with this section as listed in section 9-23-020, the The
installation of landscaping required by this chapter shall be suspended during the winter
season between October 1st and March 31st, and may be temporarily suspended, in
individual cases, by the zoning administrator during periods of adverse weather conditions
or when plants and landscape materials are not available. If the landscape standards of
this chapter are suspended, the zoning administrator shall enter into an agreement with
the landowner that will allow issuance of a temporary certificate of occupancy.

    A. If the landscape standards of this chapter are suspended, the land owner or
       developer shall post a guarantee completion assurance with the city and a signed
       agreement to complete installation of the required landscaping within eight (8)
       months, or the following September 30th whichever is sooner.
    B. Developments which have posted a guarantee completion assurance for
       landscaping may be issued a temporary certificate of occupancy on condition of
       completion of the landscape installation as agreed.
9-23-170: TABLES:
TABLE 9-23-1
PERIMETER PLANTINGS ALONG STREET FRONTAGES
(Not Including Park Strips)



 Minimum Ratios     Freeway               Arterial             Collector            Local
 Per 100 Linear
 Feet

 Adjacent to        2 shade               2 shade              2 shade              2 shade deciduous
 building or open   deciduous trees       deciduous trees      deciduous trees      trees
 area
                                          1 ornamental         1 ornamental
                                          evergreen tree       evergreen tree

                                          16 shrubs            12 shrubs

                                          100 sq. ft. of       75 sq. ft. of
                                          planting beds1       planting beds1

 Adjacent to        As above plus: 3'     As above plus: 3'    As above plus: 3'    As above plus: 3' a
 parking lot2       a combination of      a combination of     a combination of     combination of
                    evergreen shrubs      evergreen shrubs     evergreen shrubs     maintained
                    and/or a berm for     and/or a berm for    and/or a berm for    evergreen shrubs
                    continuous            continuous           continuous           and/or a berm
                    screening of the      screening of the     screening of the     providing for a
                    parking area 1        parking area 1       parking area 1       minimum 75%
                                                                                    screening of the
                                                                                    parking area 1

 Adjacent to        As above plus:        As above plus:       As above plus:       As above plus:
 service areas      Evergreen trees,      Evergreen trees,     Evergreen trees,     Evergreen trees,
 (loading docks,    shrubs, and/or        shrubs, and/or       shrubs, and/or       shrubs, and/or
 outside storage,   berm for 100%         berm for 75%         berm for 75%         berm for 50%
 and trash          screening2            screening2           screening2           screening2
 compactors)3



Notes:

   1. Decorative planting bed with flowers, other color, small shrubs, and nonturf ground
      cover.
   21.     A 3 foot high decorative wall, compatible with the design of the main building, may be
         used in lieu of berms or shrubs for parking lot screening. Screening shall be designed to
         be between three feet (3’) and four feet (4’) in height after five (5) years of normal growth,
         and shall be maintained so as to not exceed four feet (4’) in height, or the height
         limitations found in section 9-27-080 as applicable. A three feet (3’) tall decorative wall or
         fence, compatible with the architectural design and materials of the main building or site
         fencing, may be used in lieu of berms or shrubs for parking lot screening.

   32. Service area screening Screening shall be designed to meet the above criteria after five (5)
       years of normal growth.


TABLE 9-23-2
PERIMETER PLANTINGS ALONG INTERIOR LOT LINES1,2

 Minimum Ratios                             Side                                          Rear
  Per 100 Linear
       Feet
 Adjacent to            1 shade deciduous tree                        1 shade deciduous tree
 building1              5 shrubs                                      5 shrubs
 Adjacent to            1 shade deciduous tree                        1 shade deciduous tree
 parking lot            9 shrubs                                      9 shrubs
 Adjacent to            As above, plus: 1 Evergreen trees and         As above, plus: 1 Evergreen trees and
 service area           16 evergreen shrubs that at maturity          16 evergreen shrubs that at maturity
                        will screen from view 50% of the              will screen from view 50% of the
                        service area2                                 service area2

Notes:
  1. Perimeter plantings may be reduced or deleted when adjacent to a service area, nonpublic
area, or area with obscured view. Where a building wall is located between ten (10) and five (5)
feet from the property line, columnar species of trees shall be utilized and the tree count shall be
doubled. Where a building wall is located closer than five feet (5’) from the property line, but
greater than two feet (2’), four (4) additional shrubs with columnar or vertical growth
characteristics that will reach at least four feet (4’) in height shall be substituted for each
required tree. Where a building wall is located two feet (2’) or closer to a property line, perimeter
plantings shall primarily consist of ground cover plantings or rock mulch and comply with the
requirements of section 9-23-130(F).
 2. Perimeter plantings not required when buildable area abuts a lot line. Evergreen shrubs
shall be of a species or variety that will grow to a minimum height of four feet (4’) at maturity.
The zoning administrator may permit a reduction in the number of evergreen shrubs upon
demonstration that the evergreen shrubs within the landscape design will provide fifty percent
(50%) screening of the service area within five (5) years of normal growth.
….

9-25-080: PARKING AREA DESIGN AND CONSTRUCTION:
…
H. Landscaping: Parking areas shall be landscaped as provided in chapter 23 of this title.
In addition, the design of parking area landscaping shall adhere to each of the following:
1. Landscaping Islands: Landscaping islands shall be provided at each end of parking
rows.
2. Parking Row Dividing Landscaping:
a. Rows of adjacent parking shall be separated by landscaping of at least five feet (5') in
width or nine feet (9') in width if vehicles are allowed to overhang the landscaping. Where
the planning commission finds that it is not feasible for rows of parking to be separated by
landscaping, parking areas shall be designed to include tree diamonds. In order to
determine this feasibility, the planning commission must find that:
(1) The site requires a deviation from strict compliance to reduce parking; or
(2) The site would requires a deviation from strict compliance to reduce parking in order
to implement such landscaping; and
(3) Constraints of the site would necessitate the elimination of required parking spaces or
reduction of site boundary landscaping buffers in order to facilitate such landscaping.




b. When tree diamonds are proposed, they shall be spaced no more than three (3) parking
spaces apart and the area dedicated to the tree diamond shall be at least five by five feet (5
x 5') when square or at least five feet (5') in diameter when round or oval.
        Tree Diamonds
3. Spacing Between Landscaping Islands: The maximum number of parking spaces in a
row without separation by a landscaping island shall be fifteen (15).




Parking Area Landscaping Islands
4. Amount Of Landscaping: Landscaping within parking areas shall be provided in a
proportion determined in subsection 9-23-100A of this title. Landscaping eligible for
consideration as parking area landscaping shall be as demonstrated in the diagram below.
Parking area landscaping shall be calculated independently from site area landscaping, but
may also count toward site area landscaping.
FIGURE 9-25-2
PARKING AREA LANDSCAPING
5. Borders And Separation: All parking area landscaping and landscaping adjacent to
parking areas shall be bordered and separated from the parking area by six inch (6") high
back concrete curbing. Curbing may be reduced or eliminated if the entire site is being
developed as a low impact development (LID) for storm drainage purposes and wheel
stops are installed in all parking stalls to prevent vehicle intrusion into landscaped areas.
IH. Lighting: Lights used to illuminate a parking area shall be arranged to reflect the light
away from adjacent lots or parcels and shall be consistent with the standards set forth in
chapter 20 of this title.
JI. Paving: Every area used as a parking space or area shall be paved or surfaced as
follows:
    1. Permanent parking areas shall be; paved with asphaltic cement or concrete,
       maintained so as to eliminate dust or mud, and graded so as to drain and dispose of
       all surface water according to city standards. Surface water drainage from parking
       lots shall not cross a public sidewalk or walkway.
   2. The surface of temporary parking areas shall be maintained so as to eliminate dust,
      mud, and weeds or other vegetation that present a fire hazard or other danger to
      the public. Surface runoff of storm water shall be contained on site in accordance
      with applicable city standards.

   3. Parking areas for trailers, travel trailers, boats, watercraft, utility trailers, and motor
      homes in residential zones shall be constructed of asphalt, concrete, brick, rock, or
      permeable pavers and shall be maintained free of weeds, loose dust, and mud. The
      parking area shall be graded so as to drain and dispose of all surface water
      according to city standards.

KJ. Public Safety And Emergency Access Aisles: Every lot or parcel that includes a parking
area with internal vehicular aisles for access to parking spaces shall provide public safety
and emergency access aisles. Public safety and emergency access aisles shall conform to
the international fire code. The location and details of public safety and emergency access
aisles shall require approval of the Draper City Fire Marshal.



9-27-230: OUTDOOR STORAGE AND DISPLAY:
A. Permitted; Screening: All outdoor storage shall be in conjunction with and subordinate
   to a legally established business and shall be allowed only after approval of a
   conditional use permit by the planning commission. The following screening regulations
   shall apply to open storage areas:
   1. A masonry wall or solid metal fencing constructed of the same or similar materials
       as the adjacent building shall be required to screen view of all open storage areas
       from public and private streets.
   2. A chainlink chain-link fence with privacy slats or other opaque fence or wall shall be
       required along side and rear property lines to screen areas view of open storage
       areas from neighboring properties along the side and rear property lines, up to and
       including inclusive of any gate.
   3. Fences and walls used to screen open storage shall be not less than six feet (6') high.
       Fences and walls greater than six feet (6') up to ten feet (10’) high may be approved
       or required by the planning commission as part of the conditional use permit, upon
       a finding that increased the additional screening height for screening is necessary to
       reduce impacts to surrounding properties.
   4. Materials within twenty feet (20') of the fence Nothing may not be stored higher
       than the fence within twenty feet (20') of the fence. Materials may not be stacked in
       excess of ten feet (10’) in height.
   5. As part of an approval for outdoor storage, the planning commission may condition
       or require that specific materials, colors, or design elements to be used in the
       construction and installation of the screening fence or wall, other than those
       proposed, upon finding that the specific material, color, and/or design element will
       better mitigate existing or potential impacts to surrounding properties.
B. Permanent Outdoor Display Areas: All outdoor display areas shall be in conjunction
   with and subordinate to a legally established commercial business in commercial
   zones. The, in accordance with the following regulations shall apply to permanent
   outdoor display areas:
   1. New site plans must depict any all proposed outdoor display areas. Display Outdoor
      display areas may not be counted in the landscaping as part of the landscaped area
      required by chapter 23 of this title.
   2. Businesses desiring outdoor display areas in previously approved and constructed
      commercial sites shall have areas of outdoor display approved by the zoning
      administrator by means of submit a site plan amendment application pursuant to
      section 9-5-090 of this title and in accordance with the following regulations:.
      a. The outdoor display area shall be directly related to a business occupying a
          permanent structure on the subject site.
      b. Merchandise displays shall not block sidewalks, walkways, building entrances or
          drive aisles and clear view areas.
      c. Businesses shall only display merchandise directly in front of their business
          area.



17-1-040: DEFINITIONS:
…
PARK STRIP: The area located between a street right of way line and the edge of asphalt or
curb, but not including driveways, sidewalks, or trails. See definition of park strip found in
9-3-040.

TREE, STREET TREE: An approved tree placed either within or adjacent to the City's public
right-of-way. Street trees are considered a public improvement. See definition of street tree
found in 9-3-040.

…

17-5-060: LANDSCAPING AND TREES:
A. Landscaping: A landscaping plan Landscaping and irrigation plans in compliance with
Chapter 9-23 of this title shall be required for all residential subdivisions within the City
detailing the landscaping in of all public areas and parkstrips in the development and any
other area required to be landscaped as a condition of development approval. In addition,
whenever the Planning Commission determines there are areas within developments
which warrant screening, buffering, or are of sufficient size or visibility to warrant special
treatment, the developer may be required to provide a landscaping plan for such areas for
review and approval by the City. All landscaping plans shall indicate how maintenance of
the landscaped areas will be performed and by whom. All irrigation systems will conform to
Draper City standards and specifications. The plants or other landscaping materials that
best serve the intended functions shall be elected. Landscaping materials shall be
appropriate for the local environment, soil conditions, and availability of water. When
required by the Zoning Administrator or Planning Commission due to the nature or size of
the proposed landscaping, developers may be required to have the landscaping plans
prepared and stamped by a registered landscape architect.

A landscaping plan Landscaping and irrigation plans for all park strips is are required to be
submitted with the final plat application for all subdivisions. This plan shall indicate the
plan for ground cover within park strips, and shall also include details on the irrigation
system required to support the designated ground cover and required street trees. Drip or
similar deep watering systems shall be indicated where street trees are present within the
landscaping plan.

B. Street Trees:
    1. Street Trees Required: All developers of residential subdivisions in Draper City shall
       provide street trees in accordance with section 9-23-080 as part of the landscaping
       plan in order to reduce heat, dust, glare and the need for cooling and heating; to
       help clean and oxygenate the air; to reduce road noise; to prevent erosion and
       promote soil health; to mask undesirable views and enhance pleasing views; to
       develop continuity among developments; and to generally enhance the
       appearance of the City streets and promote a sense of civic pride and vitality. A
       street tree plan, which is in accordance with Draper City standards and the Draper
       City tree guide, shall be submitted with the final plat application for all subdivisions.
       The subdivider is responsible for ensuring the installation of the required number,
       species, and caliper of street trees, per the approved street tree plan, prior to the
       issuance of a certificate of occupancy for any dwelling.

    2. Improvement Completion Assurance: An improvement completion assurance and
       accompanying agreement as defined by DCMC 17-4-070 and DCMC 17-4-075 is
       required for street tree installation with all subdivision. The subdivider shall post an
       improvement completion assurance with the City prior to recording any
       subdivision or phase of each subdivision. The amount shall be set by the City and
       shall be sufficient to cover the cost of providing trees for the individual lot, but shall
       not be less than three hundred dollars ($300.00) per required tree. Funds from an
       improvement completion assurance will be held by the Draper City Community
       Development Department, and shall not be released until a site inspection has
       verified the proper tree installation has occurred, in accordance with the procedure
       outlined below:

        Total street tree and park strip landscaping amounts shall be calculated by
        multiplying the number of trees shown on the approved street tree and
        landscaping plan by three hundred dollars ($300.00), and additionally adding in an
        estimated landscaping and irrigation systems cost. This amount shall be posted
        with each subdivision or phase of a subdivision prior to the recording of any final
        or minor plat. During the construction and occupancy of homes within a
        subdivision, subdivider would have two (2) annual opportunities to reduce or
        refund a portion of the improvement completion assurance. These reductions shall
        be linked to the installation of the street trees as described on the street tree
        planting plan.

        Annual opportunities for reduction shall occur once in the spring, between April 1
        and May 31, and again in the fall after September 15 but prior to November 30.
        These dates are intended to avoid the planting of street trees during the hottest
        times of the year for a higher establishment success rate. Street trees selected for
        use within the subdivision parkstrips shall as an overall group meet the same
        diversity standards for trees found in subsections 9-23-050(J)(2) and 9-23-050(J)(3)
        of this title.

   3. Street Tree Installation: All residential subdivisions shall have street trees and
      irrigation systems installed within the park strip between the sidewalk and curb. In
      areas where there is no sidewalk or no park strip between the sidewalk and curb,
      street trees shall be installed within fifteen feet (15') of the right-of-way. Street trees
      shall be installed in accordance with the standards and specifications developed by
      the City Tree Commission and adopted by the City Council. Irrigation systems shall
      be professionally installed by a licensed contractor, and shall include an automatic
      watering system appropriate to the approved tree and park strip planting plan. The
      developer shall prepare a street tree plan for each approved residential subdivision
      which shall be reviewed by the Draper City Community Development Department
      and forwarded to the Draper City Zoning Administrator or Planning Commission. A
      diversity of species is encouraged to minimize the danger of losing an entire
      monospecific planting to blight, insects or some other species specific condition.
      After installation by the subdivider, individual homeowners are responsible for the
      irrigation and maintenance of required park strip street trees. After installation,
      inspection, and acceptance of street trees by the city, individual property owners
      shall irrigate and maintain street trees fronting their property in accordance with
      sections 9-23-080 and 9-23-140 of the Draper City municipal Code

C. Improvement Completion Assurance: The developer shall install street trees, park strip
   landscaping, and other landscaping improvements within public within the subdivision,
   and/or post an improvement completion assurance and accompanying agreement as
   defined in section 17-4-070 and section 17-4-075 of this title, prior to recording any
   subdivision plat. The amount shall be sufficient to cover the cost of installing all street
   trees, park strip landscaping, and other landscaping improvements within public areas
within the subdivision . Funds from an improvement completion assurance will be held
by the Draper City Community Development Department, and shall not be released
until a site inspection has verified the installation is in accordance with approved plans.
The process for landscape improvement completion assurances is outlined below:

   a. The developer shall be required to provide to the city a bid or bids from a
      landscape company or landscape contractor, written on company letterhead,
      detailing the cost of the installation of the approved landscaping, irrigation
      system, and other landscape improvements for the public and common areas of
      the site, as shown on the approved landscape plan.
   b. The amount of the improvement completion assurance shall be equal to one-
      hundred percent (100%) of the amount of the bid or average of the bids.
   c. Tree installation shall not be valued at less than three hundred dollars ($300.00)
      per tree.
   d. During construction and occupancy, the developer will have two (2) annual
      opportunities to request a refund of the improvement completion assurance
      tied to the completed tree and landscaping installation.
          (1) Between April 1st and May 31st ; and
          (2) Between September 15th and November 30th.
                EXHIBIT D
JORDAN VALLEY WATER CONSERVANCY DISTRICT
       WATER EFFICIENCY STANDARDS
                             WATER EFFICIENCY STANDARDS

1.   Purpose
     The purpose of these Water Efficiency Standards is to conserve the public's water
     resources by establishing water conservation standards for indoor plumbing fixtures and
     outdoor landscaping.

2.   Applicability
     The following standards shall be required for all developer/contractor installed residential,
     commercial, institutional, and industrial construction, as applicable. The Outdoor
     Landscaping Standards shall also be required for new landscaping construction installed
     by homeowners.

3.   Indoor Fixture Requirements
     It is recommended and encouraged, but not mandated, that all new and future
     construction and future additions, remodels, or refurbishments install plumbing fixtures
     that have the WaterSense label, including: lavatory faucets, shower heads, sink faucets,
     water closets (tank and flushometer-valve toilets), and urinals, to the extent Utah law
     allows municipalities or local districts to require these fixtures.

4.   Outdoor Landscaping Standards
     All new and rehabilitated landscaping for public agency projects, private development
     projects, developer-installed landscaping in multi-family and single-family residential
     projects within the front and side yards, and homeowner provided landscape
     improvements within the front and side yards of single and two-family dwellings shall
     comply with the landscaping standards below:

     Definitions

     A. Activity Zones: Portions of the landscape designed for recreation or function, such as
        storage areas, fire pits, vegetable gardens, and playgrounds.

     B. Active Recreation Areas: Areas of the landscape dedicated to active play where Lawn
        may be used as the playing surface (ex. sports fields and play areas).

     C. Central Open Shape: An unobstructed area that functions as the focal point of
        Localscapes and is designed in a shape that is geometric in nature.

     D. Gathering Areas: Portions of the landscape that are dedicated to congregating, such
        as patios, gazebos, decks, and other seating areas.

     E. Hardscape: Durable landscape materials, such as concrete, wood, pavers, stone, or
        compacted inorganic mulch.

                                               1
     F. Lawn: Ground that is covered with grass or turf that is regularly mowed.

     G. Localscapes®: A landscaping approach designed to create locally adapted and
        sustainable landscapes through a basic 5-step approach (central open shape,
        gathering areas, activity zones, connecting pathways, and planting beds).

     H. Mulch: Any material such as rock, bark, compost, wood chips or other materials left
        loose and applied to the soil.

     I. Park Strip: A typically narrow landscaped area located between the back-of-curb and
        sidewalk.

     J. Paths: Designed routes between landscape areas and features.

     K. Planting Bed: Areas of the landscape that consist of plants, such as trees, ornamental
        grasses, shrubs, perennials, and other regionally appropriate plants.

     L. Total Landscaped Area: Improved areas of the property that incorporate all of the
        completed features of the landscape. The landscape area does not include footprints
        of buildings or structures, sidewalks, driveways, and other non-irrigated areas
        intentionally left undeveloped.

5.   Landscaping Requirements

     A. All irrigation shall be appropriate for the designated plant material to achieve the
        highest water efficiency. Drip irrigation or bubblers shall be used except in Lawn areas.
        Drip irrigation systems shall be equipped with a pressure regulator, filter, flush-end
        assembly, and any other appropriate components.

     B. Each irrigation valve shall irrigate landscaping with similar site, slope and soil
        conditions, and plant materials with similar watering needs. Lawn and Planting Beds
        shall be irrigated on separate irrigation valves. In addition, drip emitters and sprinklers
        shall be placed on separate irrigation valves.

     C. Landscaped areas shall be provided with a WaterSense labeled smart irrigation
        controller which automatically adjusts the frequency and/or duration of irrigation
        events in response to changing weather conditions. All controllers shall be equipped
        with automatic rain delay or rain shut-off capabilities.

     D. At least 3-4 inches of Mulch, permeable to air and water, shall be used in Planting
        Beds to control weeds and improve the appearance of the landscaping.

     E. At maturity, landscapes are recommended to have enough plant material (perennials
        and shrubs) to create at least 50% living plant cover at maturity at the ground plane,
        not including tree canopies.
                                               2
F. Lawn shall not be installed in Park Strips, Paths, or on slopes greater than 25% or 4:1
   grade, and be less than 8 feet wide at its narrowest point. To the extent reasonably
   practicable, Lawn shall be free from obstructions (trees, signs, posts, valve boxes,
   etc.).

G. In residential landscapes, the landscaping shall adhere to the following Localscapes
   requirements:

      i.   If size permits, the landscaped areas of the front yard and back yard shall
           include a designed Central Open Shape created by using Lawn, Hardscape,
           groundcover, gravel, or Mulch.
      ii. Gathering Areas shall be constructed of Hardscape and placed outside of the
           Central Open Shape. In a landscape without Lawn, Gathering Areas may
           function as the Central Open Shape.
      iii. Activity Zones shall be located outside of the Central Open Shape and shall be
           surfaced with materials other than Lawn.
      iv. Paths shall be made with materials that do not include Lawn, such as
           Hardscape, Mulch, or other groundcover.
      v. Lawn areas shall not exceed the greater of 250 square feet, or 35% of the Total
           Landscaped Area.
      vi. Small residential lots, which have no back yards, which the Total Landscaped
           Area is less than 250 square feet, and which the front yard dimensions cannot
           accommodate the minimum 8 feet wide Lawn area requirement of the
           Landscaping Requirements in section F, are exempt from the 8 feet minimum
           width Lawn area requirement.

H. In commercial, industrial, institutional, and multi-family development common area
   landscapes, Lawn areas shall not exceed 20% of the Total Landscaped Area, outside
   of Active Recreation Areas.

I. Certain special purpose landscape areas (e.g. stormwater management areas, etc.)
   may receive exceptions from the slope limitations and other elements of the
   Landscaping Requirements (see Paragraph F, above). Applications to receive
   exceptions are to be considered on a case-by-case basis.

J. These outdoor standards are not intended to be in conflict with other landscaping
   requirements as defined by Utah law, including stormwater retention requirements
   and low-impact development guidelines. Notwithstanding these outdoor standards,
   whenever any requirement may be in conflict with Utah law, such conflicting
   requirements shall not apply.



                                        3
        EXHIBIT E
COMPARISON OF STANDARDS
Comparison of published Jordan Valley Water Conservancy District (JVWCD) standards with proposed changes to Draper City Municipal Code
(DCMC)

 JVWCD Standard(s)                                 DCMC Draft Code                                    Notes/Comments
 1. Purpose:                                       9-23-010 Purpose:                                  Draft DCMC code provides clear objectives
                                                                                                      that the standards are intended to achieve.
 The purpose of these Water Efficiency             The purposed of this chapter is to establish
 Standards is to conserve the public's water       minimum standards for the preservation,
 resources by establishing water conservation      installation, and continued maintenance of
 standards for indoor plumbing fixtures and        landscaping. The objectives of this chapter
 outdoor landscaping.                              area:
                                                   A. To protect existing vegetation and trees.
                                                   B. To promote water conservation by
                                                      requiring the use of water wise landscape
                                                      design principles and water-conserving
                                                      plants.
                                                   C. To enhance the value and appearance of
                                                      property.
                                                   D. To buffer and mitigate impacts between
                                                      conflicting land uses.
                                                   E. To maintain and improve environmental
                                                      conditions through mitigations in air,
                                                      water, soil, and noise pollution as well as
                                                      reductions in solar glare, urban heat
                                                      effect, and stormwater runoff.
 2. Applicability:                                 9-23-020: SCOPE; EXEMPTIONS:                       DCMC proposed landscaping standards would
                                                                                                      be required of all new development including
 The following standards shall be required for     A. Except as otherwise provided in this title,
                                                                                                      expansions and modifications, except bona-
 all developer/contractor installed residential,   the standards of this chapter shall apply to all
                                                                                                      fide agricultural use (farming). Exemptions
 commercial, institutional, and industrial         new development and to expansions and
                                                                                                      given from specific regulations that are not
 construction, as applicable. The Outdoor          modifications of existing development. All
                                                                                                      applicable to single-family and two-family
 Landscaping Standards shall also be required      landscaping, buffering and site design
                                                                                                      residential.
 for new landscaping construction installed by     features required by this chapter and
 homeowners.                                       previous regulations shall be continuously
                                                   maintained according to the approved
JVWCD Standard(s)                               DCMC Draft Code                                   Notes/Comments
                                                development plans and the standards
                                                contained herein.
                                                B. Bona-fide agricultural uses within
                                                agricultural zones and Residential Agricultural
                                                zones, shall be exempt from the standards of
                                                this chapter. Properties and areas of a
                                                property engaged in agricultural industry,
                                                agricultural processing, and agricultural sales
                                                and service uses as defined in section 9-3-
                                                040, are not included in this exemption.
                                                C. Landscaping for properties containing a
                                                detached single-family or two-family
                                                dwellings are exempt from the standards
                                                found in sections 9-23-090, 9-23-100, 9-23-
                                                110, 9-23-120, 9-23-160, and the tables found
                                                in section 9-23-170, but shall comply with all
                                                other requirements pertaining to water wise
                                                landscaping, including the maintenance of
                                                street trees and park strips.
3. Indoor Fixture Requirements:                 Not included. Not applicable to outdoor           Recommendations and encouragement are
                                                landscaping.                                      not standards.
It is recommended and encouraged, but not
mandated, that all new and future
construction and future additions, remodels,
or refurbishments install plumbing fixtures
that have the WaterSense label, including:
lavatory faucets, shower heads, sink faucets,
water closets (tank and flushometer-valve
toilets), and urinals, to the extent Utah law
allows municipalities or local districts to
require these fixtures.
JVWCD Standard(s)                                DCMC Draft Code                                  Notes/Comments
4. Outdoor Landscaping Standards:                Not included.                                    Redundant.
All new and rehabilitated landscaping for                                                         No discernable threshold or gauge to
public agency projects, private development                                                       determine at what level of landscape
projects, developer-installed landscaping in                                                      renovation or addition the JVWCD standards
multi-family and single-family residential                                                        would apply.
projects within the front and side yards, and
                                                                                                  Difficult / Impossible to enforce.
homeowner provided landscape
improvements within the front and side yards                                                      The listed definitions that follow after the
of single and two-family dwellings shall                                                          colon are not standards.
comply with the landscaping standards
below:
(Definitions section follows)
Definition:                                      Not included.                                    JWVCD Definition has specific applicability to
                                                                                                  a singular and specific design method that is
Activity Zones: Portions of the landscape
                                                                                                  too subjective to impose as ordinance.
designed for recreation or function, such as
storage areas, fire pits, vegetable gardens,
and playgrounds.
Definition:                                      Not included as a definition, but the premise    JWVCD Definition has specific applicability to
                                                 of providing areas for recreational pursuits     a singular and specific design method that is
Active Recreation Areas: Areas of the
                                                 that involve physical activity is incorporated   too subjective to impose as ordinance.
landscape dedicated to active play where
                                                 within the ordinance as an additional
Lawn may be used as the playing surface (ex.
                                                 descriptor or characteristic of open space and
sports fields and play areas).
                                                 sports field use.
Definition:                                      Not included.                                    JVWCD definition references a registered
                                                                                                  word mark of the JVWCD that denotes an
Central Open Shape: An unobstructed area
                                                                                                  educational service and/or trademarked
that functions as the focal point of
                                                                                                  downloadable electronic newsletter. The
Localscapes and is designed in a shape that is
                                                                                                  definition provided by JVWCD is too
geometric in nature.
                                                                                                  ambiguous and unable to be tied to
                                                                                                  discernable and objective criteria.
JVWCD Standard(s)                               DCMC Draft Code                                   Notes/Comments
Definition:                                     Not included.                                     JWVCD Definition has specific applicability to
                                                                                                  a singular and specific design method that is
Gathering Areas: Portions of the landscape
                                                                                                  too subjective to impose as ordinance.
that are dedicated to congregating, such as
patios, gazebos, decks, and other seating
areas.
Definition:                                     HARDSCAPE: Patios, decks, walls, paths and        Proposed DCMC definition clarifies that
                                                similar man-made features that are part of an     driveways, sidewalks and parking areas are
Hardscape: Durable landscape materials, such
                                                integrated landscape design. This definition      not part of the hardscaped portion of a
as concrete, wood, pavers, stone, or
                                                does not include driveways, sidewalks,            landscaped area.
compacted inorganic mulch.
                                                parking areas, or other paved walkways
                                                required for pedestrian access.
Definition:                                     GRASS: Monocotyledonous plants from the           JVWCD definition implies that grass and turf
                                                botanical family Poaceae or Gramineae             are not the same as lawn, and provides no
Lawn: Ground that is covered with grass or
                                                having narrow leaves, hollow stems, and           definition of grass or turf.
turf that is regularly mowed.
                                                clusters of very small flowers.
                                                TURF: A surface layer of earth containing
                                                                                                  DCMC definitions provide greater clarity.
                                                mowed grass with its roots. Includes the
                                                terms lawn and sod.
                                                SOD: Cultivated turf that has been cut into
                                                sections and harvested in rectangular slabs or
                                                rolls, to facilitate transportation to and
                                                installation at another site. Installation is
                                                referred to as sodding, and the practice
                                                reduces the time it takes to make turf areas
                                                within a landscape design functional, typically
                                                within thirty (30) days.
Definition:                                     Not included.                                     JVWCD definition references a registered
                                                                                                  word mark of the JVWCD that denotes an
Localscapes®: A landscaping approach
                                                                                                  educational service and/or trademarked
designed to create locally adapted and
                                                                                                  downloadable electronic newsletter. The
sustainable landscapes through a basic 5-step
                                                                                                  definition suggested by JVWCD is factually
JVWCD Standard(s)                                DCMC Draft Code                                   Notes/Comments
approach (central open shape, gathering                                                            inaccurate and instead defines a singular and
areas, activity zones, connecting pathways,                                                        specific design method that is itself not well
and planting beds).                                                                                defined and is too subjective to impose as
                                                                                                   ordinance.
Definition:                                      MULCH: Materials such as rock, bark, wood         JVWCD definition is overly broad.
                                                 chips or similar materials left loose and
Mulch: Any material such as rock, bark,                                                            Proposed DCMC definition ties the material to
                                                 applied over the soil for the purposes of
compost, wood chips or other materials left                                                        the specific function and objective in the
                                                 water conservation, reducing weed growth,
loose and applied to the soil.                                                                     landscape plan.
                                                 and enhancing the visual appeal of an area.

Definition:                                      PARK STRIP: The area located along each side      The proposed DCMC definition provides more
                                                 of a street between a street right of way line    clarity in all situations as to the location, and
Park Strip: A typically narrow landscaped area
                                                 and the edge of asphalt. Does not include         what is and is not included.
located between the back-of-curb and
                                                 approved and permitted sidewalks, driveway
sidewalk.
                                                 approaches, curbs, or trails. The definition is
                                                 also inclusive of the term city tree planting
                                                 strips.


Definition:                                      Not included.                                     JVWCD definition is too narrowly defined. The
                                                                                                   term is commonly used, has multiple
Paths: Designed routes between landscape
                                                                                                   definitions based on usage within a sentence,
areas and features.
                                                                                                   and is located throughout the DCMC.

Definition:                                      PLANTING BED: A well-defined and physically       DCMC proposed definition incorporates
                                                 separate area from other adjacent                 annual and biennial plant in addition to those
Planting Bed: Areas of the landscape that
                                                 landscaped areas utilized for planting annual,    of the JVWCD definitions, and eliminates the
consist of plants, such as trees, ornamental
                                                 biennial, and perennial plants, small shrubs,     ambiguity that could be created when
grasses, shrubs, perennials, and other
                                                 and non-turf ground covers.                       determining appropriateness.
regionally appropriate plants.
                                                 PLANT, PERENNIAL: A plant which persists for
                                                 many growing seasons, usually with new
                                                 herbaceous growth from a part of the plant
JVWCD Standard(s)                                DCMC Draft Code                                      Notes/Comments
                                                 that survives from growing season to growing         Additional DCMC proposed definitions of
                                                 season. As used in this title it includes            Perennial Plant includes ornamental grasses
                                                 ornamental grasses but not turf, lawn, or sod.       by definition.


Definition:                                      LANDSCAPING OR LANDSCAPE: The area of a              JVWCD definition conflicts with the existing
                                                 development consisting of natural and/or             and proposed DCMC definitions of landscape
Total Landscaped Area: Improved areas of the
                                                 introduced live vegetation together with             and excludes potentially water-wise/ water
property that incorporate all of the
                                                 accompanying earthwork and mulch that                efficient non-irrigated areas.
completed features of the landscape. The
                                                 provide visual enhancement to the
landscape area does not include footprints of
                                                 development. Landscaping can also include
buildings or structures, sidewalks, driveways,
                                                 related outdoor features placed together with
and other non-irrigated areas intentionally
                                                 the vegetation such as decorative boulders,
left undeveloped.
                                                 fountains, ponds, artwork, and benches. Also
                                                 includes the act of installing the foregoing.


5. Landscaping Requirements                      9-23-055: IRRIGATION DESIGN STANDARDS:               JVWCD standard does not define what the
                                                                                                      appropriate irrigation for achieving highest
A. All irrigation shall be appropriate for the   A. Irrigation: A Landscape Irrigation Plan
                                                                                                      water efficiency is.
designated plant material to achieve the         designed in accordance with the standards
highest water efficiency. Drip irrigation or     found in this section shall be included
bubblers shall be used except in Lawn areas.     together with each submitted Landscape
                                                                                                      DCMC proposed ordinance requires submittal
Drip irrigation systems shall be equipped with   Planting Plan. A program schedule for each
                                                                                                      of an irrigation plan, and two program
a pressure regulator, filter, flush-end          irrigation circuit indicating the time and
                                                                                                      schedules. Irrigation plan designer is required
assembly, and any other appropriate              duration of watering cycles necessary for
                                                                                                      to create an irrigation plan that integrates
components.                                      both initial plant establishment and long term
                                                                                                      with the planting plan and considers long
                                                 water needs of the installed landscaping shall
                                                                                                      term maintenance and watering. Additional
                                                 also be included.
                                                                                                      specific standards for pressure regulation of
                                                 B. Pressure Regulation: A pressure regulating        the complete system is included. Standards
                                                 valve shall be installed as part of the irrigation   for drip irrigation of all non-turf, and drip
                                                 system design and shall be maintained by the         irrigation line design in line with the JVWCD
                                                 property owner in areas where the static             standards are included.
JVWCD Standard(s)                                 DCMC Draft Code                                    Notes/Comments
                                                  service pressure from the water meter
                                                  exceeds eighty pounds per square inch (80
                                                  PSI). The pressure-regulating valve shall be
                                                  located between the water meter and the
                                                  first point of water use, or first point of
                                                  division in the pipe, and shall be set at the
                                                  manufacturer's recommended pressure for
                                                  the sprinklers.
                                                  F. Drip irrigation and/or bubblers shall be
                                                  used to irrigate all non-turf landscape areas.
                                                  K. Filters and end flush valves shall be
                                                  provided for drip irrigation lines.




B. Each irrigation valve shall irrigate           9-23-055: IRRIGATION DESIGN STANDARDS:             DCMC proposal meets and exceeds the
landscaping with similar site, slope and soil                                                        JVWCD standards.
                                                  D. Each valve shall irrigate a landscaped area
conditions, and plant materials with similar
                                                  with similar site, slope and soil conditions and
watering needs. Lawn and Planting Beds shall
                                                  plant materials with similar watering needs.
be irrigated on separate irrigation valves. In
                                                  Turf and non-turf areas shall be irrigated on
addition, drip emitters and sprinklers shall be
                                                  separate valves. Drip emitters and sprinklers
placed on separate irrigation valves.
                                                  shall be placed on separate valves.
                                                  E. Drip emitters or a bubbler shall be provided
                                                  for each tree. Bubblers shall not exceed 1.5
                                                  gallons per minute per device. Bubblers and
                                                  drip emitters used for trees shall be placed on
                                                  a separate valve from other plants and
                                                  shrubs.
JVWCD Standard(s)                                DCMC Draft Code                                   Notes/Comments
                                                 G. Pop-up sprinkler heads used to irrigate turf
                                                 areas shall pop-up a minimum of four inches
                                                 (4”) and must clear the top level of the turf.
                                                 H. Sprinklers shall have matched precipitation
                                                 rates with each control valve circuit.
                                                 I. Sprinkler heads shall be attached to rigid
                                                 lateral lines with flexible swing joints to
                                                 reduce potential for breakage.
                                                 J. Check valves shall be required where
                                                 elevation differences cause low-head
                                                 drainage. Pressure compensating valves and
                                                 sprinklers shall be required where a
                                                 significant variation in water pressure occurs
                                                 within the irrigation system due to elevation
                                                 differences.
                                                 L. Valves with sprinklers shall be scheduled to
                                                 operate between 6 p.m. and 10 a.m.
                                                 M. Valves shall be programmed to water
                                                 plants for multiple short cycles with a rest or
                                                 soak period between cycles to reduce runoff
                                                 in areas with slow infiltration rates and where
                                                 slopes are equal to or greater than fifteen
                                                 percent (15%).
C. Landscaped areas shall be provided with a     C. Irrigation Controller: Landscaped areas        DCMC proposal is comparable to the JVWCD
WaterSense labeled smart irrigation              shall be provided with a WaterSense/EPA-          standard.
controller which automatically adjusts the       certified labeled smart irrigation controller
frequency and/or duration of irrigation events   which automatically adjusts the frequency
in response to changing weather conditions.      and/or duration of irrigation events in
All controllers shall be equipped with           response to changing weather conditions,
                                                 including but not limited to automatic rain
JVWCD Standard(s)                               DCMC Draft Code                                  Notes/Comments
automatic rain delay or rain shut-off           delay or shut-off, and automatic wind delay
capabilities.                                   or shut-off capabilities.


D. At least 3-4 inches of Mulch, permeable to   9-23-130: TREE AND LANDSCAPE MATERIAL            The materials standards proposed for the
air and water, shall be used in Planting Beds   STANDARDS:                                       DCMC exceed those of the JVWCD standards.
to control weeds and improve the
                                                F. Ground Treatment:
appearance of the landscaping.
                                                1. The ground area within landscape areas
                                                shall present a finished appearance with a
                                                balanced distribution of plantings across each
                                                planting area.
                                                2. Bark or rock mulch shall be installed and
                                                maintained at a minimum depth of three
                                                inches (3") on all planted areas except where
                                                ground cover plants are fully established and
                                                provide for complete coverage of the area.
                                                Mulch may be approved as a permanent
                                                ground treatment in landscape designs where
                                                ground cover or turf is impractical.
                                                3. Rock Mulch with an accompanying weed
                                                barrier may be used in a limited way as a
                                                ground treatment in areas where typical
                                                water drainage from the site would create
                                                conditions unsuitable for plant survival, or
                                                adjacent to buildings where plantings could
                                                create a health, safety, or operational hazard
                                                near entrances. The use of this type of
                                                treatment adjacent to buildings may not
                                                exceed ten percent (10%) of the landscape
                                                planting area located within ten feet (10’) of
                                                the building.
JVWCD Standard(s)                                 DCMC Draft Code                                  Notes/Comments
                                                  4. Landscape edging shall be used to
                                                  separate planting beds from turf and other
                                                  areas predominantly planted with
                                                  groundcovers, and shall also be provided at
                                                  the transition between all mulched areas,
                                                  ground covers, and turf.
E. At maturity, landscapes are recommended        H. Plant Coverage: With the exception of         JVWCD provides only a recommended plant
to have enough plant material (perennials         planting beds for annual plants as identified    coverage rate, not a required rate. Proposed
and shrubs) to create at least 50% living plant   in subsection 9-23-050(H)(2) below, live plant   DCMC standards set a minimum required rate
cover at maturity at the ground plane, not        materials for all developments subject to this   of 75% coverage after 10 years of growth.
including tree canopies.                          chapter shall cover a minimum of fifty
                                                  percent (50%) of the landscaped area within
                                                  the first two (2) growing seasons following
                                                  planting, and a minimum of seventy-five
                                                  percent (75%) of the landscaped area at ten
                                                  (10) years. The landscape architect or
                                                  landscape designer shall calculate and include
                                                  the plant coverage rates as notations on the
                                                  landscape planting plan.

                                                  1. Tree and plant symbols on landscape
                                                     planting plans shall be scaled to indicate
                                                     their typical coverage or spread at their
                                                     full mature size or at a size equivalent to
                                                     their size at ten (10) years from planting,
                                                     whichever comes first.

                                                  2. Planting beds exclusively for annual
                                                     and/or biennial plants if included on
                                                     landscape planting plans, shall not exceed
                                                     twenty percent (20%) of the landscaped
                                                     area of the site (excluding turf and
                                                     groundcover areas). Planting beds that
JVWCD Standard(s)                                 DCMC Draft Code                              Notes/Comments
                                                    include annual or biennial plantings shall
                                                    be planted so as to create a minimum
                                                    annual coverage with live plan materials
                                                    of seventy-five percent (75%) of the area
                                                    of the planting bed at the time the annual
                                                    or biennial plants reach maturity. The
                                                    planting plan shall reflect the initial
                                                    planting layout. Planting beds shall be
                                                    replanted annually each spring and shall
                                                    be maintained through the growing
                                                    season. Permanent irrigation systems shall
                                                    also be designed and installed to
                                                    accommodate the annual plants.


F. Lawn shall not be installed in Park Strips,    9-23-050: LANDSCAPE DESIGN CRITERIA:            JVWCD standards appear to prohibit lawn in
Paths, or on slopes greater than 25% or 4:1                                                       all park strips. Unclear why lawn must be less
                                                  A. 3. Areas with slopes greater than twenty
grade, and be less than 8 feet wide at its                                                        than 8 feet wide at its narrowest point, and
                                                  five percent (25%) shall be landscaped with
narrowest point. To the extent reasonably                                                         there is no standard for how many
                                                  deep rooting, water-conserving plants, and
practicable, Lawn shall be free from                                                              obstructions are reasonably practicable.
                                                  shall not include turf.
obstructions (trees, signs, posts, valve boxes,
etc.).                                            9-23-080: PARK STRIP LANDSCAPING:
                                                                                                  DCMC proposal prohibits turf in park strips
                                                  1. Additional Landscaping:
                                                                                                  less than 8 feet wide and on slopes greater
                                                    a. In park strips five feet (5’) wide or      than 25%.
                                                       greater, perineal plants, shrubs, and
                                                       vegetation, shall also be installed in
                                                       addition to the street trees.
                                                    b. Plantings shall provide a minimum fifty
                                                       percent (50%) coverage of the park strip
                                                       area, the balance of the area not
                                                       planted, shall consist of mulch applied
                                                       over a weed barrier.
JVWCD Standard(s)                                 DCMC Draft Code                                     Notes/Comments
                                                    c. Turf grass may not be planted in park
                                                       strips equal to or less than eight feet (8’)
                                                       in width.
G. In residential landscapes, the landscaping     Not included.                                       JVWCD standard requires adherence to a
shall adhere to the following Localscapes                                                             registered word mark of the JVWCD denoting
requirements: i. If size permits, the                                                                 an educational service and/or trademarked
landscaped areas of the front yard and back                                                           downloadable electronic newsletter. This is
yard shall include a designed Central Open                                                            too ambiguous to include as ordinance.
Shape created by using Lawn, Hardscape,
groundcover, gravel, or Mulch.
                                                                                                      No indication provided in JVWCD standard as
ii. Gathering Areas shall be constructed of
                                                                                                      to a minimum or maximum size that would
Hardscape and placed outside of the Central
                                                                                                      require a central open shape. No requirement
Open Shape. In a landscape without Lawn,
                                                                                                      to provide a gathering area, activity zone, or
Gathering Areas may function as the Central
                                                                                                      path, only standards for materials they may
Open Shape.
                                                                                                      be constructed with if included.
iii. Activity Zones shall be located outside of
the Central Open Shape and shall be surfaced
with materials other than Lawn.                                                                       Unclear if the calculation of JVWCD maximum
                                                                                                      lawn area of 35% was intended to be
iv. Paths shall be made with materials that do
                                                                                                      inclusive of all site landscaping (minus lawn
not include Lawn, such as Hardscape, Mulch,
                                                                                                      considered active recreation), the combined
or other groundcover.
                                                                                                      total landscaped area of the front and back
v. Lawn areas shall not exceed the greater of                                                         yard only, or an amount applied to the front
250 square feet, or 35% of the Total                                                                  and rear yard landscaped areas separately.
Landscaped Area.
vi. Small residential lots, which have no back
                                                                                                      No practical reason for including an
yards, which the Total Landscaped Area is less
                                                                                                      exemption for residential lots with no back
than 250 square feet, and which the front
                                                                                                      yards from the prohibition on park strip lawn
yard dimensions cannot accommodate the
                                                                                                      width and installation of turf on steep slopes.
minimum 8 feet wide Lawn area requirement
of the Landscaping Requirements in section F,
JVWCD Standard(s)                                  DCMC Draft Code                                 Notes/Comments
are exempt from the 8 feet minimum width
Lawn area requirement.


H. In commercial, industrial, institutional, and   9-23-050: LANDSCAPE DESIGN CRITERIA:           JVWCD standard provides no rational basis
multi-family development common area                                                              for this 20% limit to apply the same to dense
                                                   A. 5. Turf shall not cover more than twenty
landscapes, Lawn areas shall not exceed 20%                                                       residential multi-family development. DCMC
                                                      percent (20%) of the total landscaped area
of the Total Landscaped Area, outside of                                                          proposal specifies 20% as the rate for non-
                                                      of non-residential landscapes unless turf
Active Recreation Areas.                                                                          residential, and provides additional flexibility
                                                      areas are specifically utilized for active
                                                                                                  for multiple-family and mixed use
                                                      recreation such as sports fields.
                                                                                                  development. Separate calculations are
                                                      6. For multiple-family and mixed use
                                                                                                  provided elsewhere for single-family and two-
                                                      landscapes, turf shall not cover more than
                                                                                                  family residential uses.
                                                      twenty percent (20%) of the total
                                                      landscaped area of the site. Turf areas
                                                      specifically designed and utilized for
                                                      recreation such as sports fields are not
                                                      included within this limit. Turf areas less
                                                      than eight (8’) wide are also not
                                                      permitted.
I. Certain special purpose landscape areas         Not included.                                  JCWCD provides no criteria for granting an
(e.g. stormwater management areas, etc.)                                                          exemption from the prohibition of installing
may receive exceptions from the slope                                                             turf on steep slopes.
limitations and other elements of the
Landscaping Requirements (see Paragraph F,
above). Applications to receive exceptions are
to be considered on a case-by-case basis.
JVWCD Standard(s)                              DCMC Draft Code   Notes/Comments
J. These outdoor standards are not intended    Not included.     The existing DCMC already provides a section
to be in conflict with other landscaping                         with a more direct and less confusing remedy:
requirements as defined by Utah law,
                                                                 9-1-120: CONFLICTING PROVISIONS:
including stormwater retention requirements
and low-impact development guidelines.                           This title shall not nullify more restrictive
Notwithstanding these outdoor standards,                         provisions of other private covenants and
whenever any requirement may be in conflict                      agreements or other laws or general
with Utah law, such conflicting requirements                     ordinances of the city, but shall prevail and
shall not apply.                                                 take precedence over such provisions which
                                                                 are less restrictive. In cases where provisions
                                                                 within this title conflict, the most restrictive
                                                                 provision shall supersede the less restrictive
                                                                 one unless specifically provided otherwise.
