                              Development Review Committee
                                   1020 East Pioneer Road
                                     Draper, UT 84020
                                        February 13, 2023

To:             Draper City Planning Commission
                Business Date: February 23, 2023

From:           Development Review Committee

Prepared By: Todd A. Draper, AICP, Planner III
             Planning Division
             Community Development Department
             801-576-6335, todd.draper@draperutah.gov

Re:  Exeter (Summit Commerce Center) 2nd Amended – Development Agreement
Request
     Application No.: DA-226-2022
     Applicant:        Mark McKee, representing Exeter Draper Land LLC and ARCO
                       Design Build
     Project Location: 13004 S. Pony Express Rd.
     Current Zoning: M1 (Light Manufacturing) Zone
     Acreage:          26.94 Acres (Approximately 1,173,506 ft2)
     Request:          Request for approval of an Amended Development Agreement in
                       the M1 zone regarding amending the existing Development
                       Agreement to permit additional wall signage in excess of current
                       ordinance limits.


BACKGROUND AND SUMMARY
This application is a request for approval of an Amended Development Agreement for
approximately 26.94 acres located at the southwest corner of the intersection of Pony
Express Rd. and Golden Harvest Rd., at approximately 13004 S. Pony Express Rd. (Exhibits
C and D). The property is currently zoned M1. The applicant is requesting that an Amended
Development Agreement be approved to permit additional wall signage in excess of the
current ordinance limits.

The original development agreement, and the zone change to M1, was executed in April
2020 and the overall site was cleared of the previously existing residential homes and
consolidated into a single lot. The property subject to the development agreement has



Exeter (Summit Commerce Center)                                    App. # DA-226-2022
Amended Development Agreement Request          1
been developed with one industrial and one commercial building, both buildings nearing
the completion of construction, and both having recently obtained certificates for their
temporary occupancy. The property subject to the development agreement was also
recently re-subdivided In December 2022 into two lots, with one building on each lot
(Exhibit B). The proposed amendment to the development agreement contained in this
application would affect the building on Lot 1 of the amended subdivision only.



ANALYSIS
General Plan and Zoning. The Land Use Map of the General Plan calls for the Business and
Light Manufacturing land use designation for the subject property (Exhibit E). This category
is characterized as follows:




The property has been assigned the M1 zoning classification (Exhibit F). According to
Draper City Municipal Code (DCMC) Section 9-8-020 the purpose of the M1 zone is to
“provide areas for uses involving processing and assembly of manufactured goods, warehousing,
and material storage. Uses which generate excessive noise, vibration, odor, dust, and fumes are
excluded from this zone” The RA2 (Residential Agricultural, 20,000 ft2 min. lot size) zoning
abuts the subject property on the west, the CBP (Business/Manufacturing Park) zoning is
found to the north across Golden Harvest Rd., Pony Express Rd. and the I-15 freeway are to
the east, and RA1 (Residential Agricultural, 40,000 ft2 min. lot size) and DC (Destination
Commercial) zoning is located to the south of the subject property.

Development Agreement. The proposed amended development agreement (Exhibit G) seeks



Exeter (Summit Commerce Center)                                        App. # DA-226-2022
Amended Development Agreement Request          2
to increase the overall square footage of permissible wall signs on the eastern façade of
the building located on Lot 1 of the development. The current regulations pertaining to wall
signage in ordinance restricts the square footage of signs to one (1) square foot for each
one (1) linear foot of building wall.

DCMC 9-26-070: PERMITTED ON PREMISES PERMANENT SIGNS:
Permitted signage described in this section is for specified zones, unless otherwise outlined in
section 9-26-090 of this chapter where the provisions therein will govern. The area of wall,
freestanding, and monument signs are added together in order to arrive at the total sign
allowance.
    A. Nonresidential Zones:
        1. Wall Signs:
           a. For any one side of a building the maximum sign area for each one linear foot of
               building wall shall be one square foot.
           b. When the wall on which the sign is placed is more than two hundred feet (200')
               from any public right-of-way, the maximum sign area for each one linear foot of
               building wall shall be one and one-half (11/2) square feet.
           c. No part of a building wall sign shall extend above a roofline.
           d. No part of such signs shall project from a building wall a distance greater than
               twelve inches (12").

Per the approved building plans the maximum combined square footage for wall signs on
the eastern façade of the building on Lot 1 is five-hundred and seventy square feet (570
ft²). The current total square footage of approved wall signage installed on the eastern
façade building is three-hundred and forty-one square feet (341 ft²) (Exhibit H). The
applicant and building tenant wish to install additional wall signage on the building up to a
cumulative total of one-thousand, one-hundred fifty-seven square feet (1,157 ft²) (Exhibits I
and J).

In addition to the maximum cumulative square footage of wall signs as found in DCMC 9-
26-070, the general standards and provisions for wall signs listed in DCMC 9-26-060(H)(3)
limit the maximum size of any one wall sign to two-hundred fifty square feet (250 ft²).

DCMC 9-26-060(H)
      3. Wall Signs: Wall signs shall be placed on the wall of the business which the sign
         identifies. No wall sign shall be larger than two hundred fifty (250) square feet.

The applicant and building tenant wishes to replace the existing main wall sign installed
over the front entrance with an oversized wall sign that would be seven-hundred twenty
square feet (720 ft²) in size (Exhibit J). The currently installed main wall sign in that location
is two-hundred forty square feet (247 ft²) in size. The proposed second amendment to the
development agreement seeks to permit this one (1) oversized wall sign in addition to the
other desired signage on the eastern building façade.



Exeter (Summit Commerce Center)                                           App. # DA-226-2022
Amended Development Agreement Request            3
Not including the size of the existing main wall sign, or the proposed oversized wall sign,
the cumulative total square footage of all other proposed wall signs for the eastern façade
would be four-hundred thirty-seven square feet (437 ft²). The proposed second
amendment to the development agreement would set this amount as the maximum limit
for wall signage on the eastern façade independent of the existing main entry wall sign or
the proposed oversized wall sign.

Staff also notes that after the review of this application was completed and during the
writing of this staff report that the tenant has installed a number of temporary banner
signs on the building walls without permits and in violation of the zoning ordinance. The
first set of two signs having been installed on or around January 30, 2023, and a second
larger group of temporary banner signs on or around February 10, 2023. Four (4) of the
currently installed banner signs resemble the proposed permanent signs in Exhibit I and
two (2) new banner signs replaced the first set of banners that were installed. None of
these signs were installed with City approval or the applicable temporary sign permits. The
estimated total square footage of illegal and unapproved banner signs currently on the
building is seven-hundred twenty square feet (720 ft²). Should the property owner or
tenant wish to install temporary banner signs the maximum number of allowable
temporary banners on this property is one (1) per street frontage and the maximum
allowable size of each is limited to thirty-two square feet (32 ft²).

As the installation of the temporary banner signs constitutes a zoning violation, the tenant
or property owner will need to remove the illegal and unapproved banner signs and bring
the property into compliance with the zoning ordinance before any additional applications
or approvals for the property may be accepted or granted, this would include permits for
the proposed signage associated with this second amendment to the development
agreement.

Additionally, an important clarification is that this second amendment to the development
agreement, if approved, does not give permit the installation of the proposed wall signs or
temporary banner signs. A sign permit application is still required to be submitted for
review. Sign permit applications will not be approved unless they are found to comply with
all applicable provisions of the zoning ordinance and applicable provisions of the
development agreement. All pertinent inspections to insure compliance with the ordinance
and the development agreement are required.

Criteria For Approval.
DCMC does not contain criteria for review and potential approval of a Development
Agreement. It does, however; contain a list of items that are required as part of an
Agreement and limitations to a Development Agreement, as found in DCMC Section 9-5-
200(C) and (D). This section depicts the required materials for such requests as:




Exeter (Summit Commerce Center)                                       App. # DA-226-2022
Amended Development Agreement Request         4
        C. Procedure: All development agreements, upon proper execution, shall be recorded
           with the respective County Recorder's Office, shall run with the land, and shall be
           binding on all successors in the ownership of the affected property. A development
           agreement shall contain, at a minimum, the following:
               1. A legal description of the land subject to the development agreement.
               2. The restrictions or conditions to be attached to the property including
                   development standards and the provision of public facilities.
               3. The configuration of the project as shown on a project master plan.
               4. A statement of the benefits and value the development agreement will have
                   for the City as a whole, including, but not limited to, assurances of design
                   standards, dedication and improvement of open space, parks, trails,
                   amenities, or infrastructure such as public rights-of-way or utilities.
               5. The time frames for performance by the parties.
               6. A description of the various City approvals required before the
                   commencement of construction and other procedures that will be required
                   after approval of the development agreement.
               7. Provisions for enforcement of the terms and conditions of the development
                   agreement.
               8. Provisions for making amendments to the development agreement.
               9. The time limitation of the agreement.
               10. Such other terms as may be proposed and agreed to between the City and
                   developer or subdivider.

        D. Limitations:
              1. A development agreement under this section may not:
                   a. Limit the City’s authority in the future to:
                       i. Enact a land use regulation; or
                       ii. Take any action allowed under Utah Code Annotated Section 10-8-84,
                           as amended;
                   b. Require the City to change the zoning designation of an area of land
                       within the City in the future; or
                   c. Contain a term that conflicts with, or is different from, a standard set forth
                       in an existing land use regulation that governs the area subject to the
                       development agreement, unless the city council approves the development
                       agreement in accordance with the same procedures for enacting a land
                       use regulation under Utah Code Annotated Section 10-9a-502, including a
                       review and recommendation from the planning commission and a public
                       hearing.
              2. The City may not require a development agreement as the only option for
                   developing land within the City.
              3. To the extent that a development agreement does not specifically address a
                   matter or concern related to land use or development, the matter or concern
                   is governed by;



Exeter (Summit Commerce Center)                                            App. # DA-226-2022
Amended Development Agreement Request            5
                    a. Utah Code Annotated 10-9a-530, as amended; and
                    b. Applicable land use regulations of this Title.

The applicant responses to the requirements of 9-5-200(C)(4) and (C)(6) are included as
Exhibit K.



REVIEWS
Planning Division Review. The Draper City Planning Division has completed their review of
the Amended Development Agreement submission. Comments from this division, if any,
can be found in Exhibit A.

Engineering and Public Works Divisions Review. The Draper City Engineering and Public
Works Divisions have completed their reviews of the Amended Development Agreement
submission. Comments from these divisions, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

GIS Division Review. The Draper City GIS Division has completed their review of the
Amended Development Agreement submission. Comments from this division, if any, can
be found in Exhibit A.

Fire Division Review. The Draper City Fire Marshal has completed his review of the Amended
Development Agreement submission. Comments from this division, if any, can be found in
Exhibit A.

Legal Division Review. The Draper City Attorney has completed his review of the Amended
Development Agreement submission. Comments from this division, if any, can be found in
Exhibit A.

Noticing. Notice has been properly issued in the manner outlined in the City and State
Codes.



STAFF RECOMMENDATION

Staff recommends that the Planning Commission review the request, receive public
comment, and make a decision based on the findings listed below and the criteria for
approval, or denial, as listed within the staff report.

If the Planning Commission decides to recommend approval of the request, staff
recommends they recommend inclusion of the following conditions of approval:

    1. That the property owner or tenant remove the temporary banner signs from the
       building, and obtain necessary sign permits for any temporary banner signs before



Exeter (Summit Commerce Center)                                      App. # DA-226-2022
Amended Development Agreement Request         6
       any are placed on the building or property in the future. If sign permits for
       temporary banner signs are issued, applicable time limits and occurrences shall be
       calculated from the date each set of current banner signs were installed.
    2. That the property owner or tenant bring the property into compliance with the
       requirements of zoning ordinance before any new or outstanding applications or
       permits for the property are approved.
    3. That the property owner or tenant obtain the necessary sign permits for the
       installation of all wall signs prior to their installation and complete all inspection
       requirements.

The findings for a recommendation of approval as are follows:

        1. The proposed Amended Development Agreement complies with the
           requirements of DCMC Section 9-5-200(C) and (D).

The findings for a recommendation for denial are as are follows:

        1. The proposed Amended Development Agreement is not in compliance with the
           requirements of DCMC Section 9-5-200(C) and (D).



MODEL MOTIONS
Sample Motion for Approval – I move that we forward a positive recommendation to the
City Council for the Amended Development Agreement, as requested by Mark McKee,
representing Exeter Draper Land LLC and ARCO Design Build application, DA-226-2022,
based on the findings and subject to the conditions listed in the Staff Report dated
February 13, 2023.

Sample Motion for Modified Approval – I move that we forward a positive recommendation
to the City Council for the Amended Development Agreement, as requested by Mark
McKee, representing Exeter Draper Land LLC and ARCO Design Build, application DA-226-
2022, based on the findings and subject to the conditions listed in the Staff Report dated
February 13, 2023 and as modified by the findings and conditions below:

        1. List any additional findings and conditions…

Sample Motion for Denial – I move that we forward a negative recommendation to the City
Council for the Amended Development Agreement, as requested by Mark McKee,
representing Exeter Draper Land LLC and ARCO Design Build, application DA-226-2022,
based on the findings and subject to the conditions listed in the Staff Report dated
February 13, 2023.




Exeter (Summit Commerce Center)                                        App. # DA-226-2022
Amended Development Agreement Request          7
                                      EXHIBIT A
                                 DEPARTMENT REVIEWS

REVIEWS ARE NOT MEANT TO BE AN ALL INCLUSIVE LIST OF POSSIBLE COMMENTS OR
CONDITIONS.



Planning Division Review.

       1.       No additional comments.

Engineering and Public Works Divisions Review.

       1.       No additional comments.

GIS Division.

       1.       No additional comments.

Fire Division Review.

       1.       No additional comments.

Legal Division Review.

       1.       No additional comments
   EXHIBIT B
SUBDIVISION PLAT
  EXHIBIT C
VICINITY MAP
 EXHIBIT D
AERIAL MAP
  EXHIBIT E
LAND USE MAP
 EXHIBIT F
ZONING MAP
           EXHIBIT G
AMENDED DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT
                         SECOND AMENDMENT TO
           MASTER DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT FOR EPG PONY EXPRESS

        This Second Amendment to Master Development Agreement for EPG Pony Express (“Second
Amendment”) is entered into this ___ day of ________, 2022 (“Effective Date”), by and between
DRAPER CITY, a municipality of the State of Utah, (“City”), and EXETER DRAPER LAND,
LLC, a Delaware limited liability company (“Master Developer”), sometimes referred to jointly as
“Parties.”

                                             RECITALS:

        WHEREAS The Parties previously entered into that certain MASTER DEVELOPMENT
AGREEMENT FOR EPG PONY EXPRESS (“MDA”) dated on or about April 7, 2020 with respect
to real property located in Draper City, Salt Lake County, State of Utah (“Property”);

      WHEREAS The MDA was amended by the terms of that certain FIRST AMENDMENT TO
DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT TO MASTER DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT FOR EPG
PONY EXPRESS dated August 24, 2022, between City and Master Developer (“First Amendment”).
The MDA Agreement as amended by the First Amendment is referred to as the “Amended
Development Agreement”).

        WHEREAS Master Developer and the City have cooperated in the preparation of this Second
Amendment and desire to enter into this Second Amendment to specify the rights and responsibilities
of Master Developer to develop the Property as expressed in this Second Amendment and the rights
and responsibilities of the City to allow and regulate such development pursuant to the requirements
of this Second Amendment. Unless otherwise covered by a specific defined term in this Second
Amendment, all capitalized terms in this Second Amendment shall have the meaning set forth in the
Development Agreement.

       WHEREAS The MDA inadvertently referred to the Master Developer as Exeter Draper PSA,
LLC. The Property was conveyed to Exeter Draper Land, LLC and accordingly, Exeter Draper Land,
LLC is executing this Second Amendment as the correct Master Developer.

        NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the promises, covenants, representations and
warranties hereinafter set forth, and for other good and valuable consideration, the receipt and
sufficiency of which are acknowledged, the Parties agree as follows:

              1. Definitions. All capitalized terms used but not otherwise defined herein shall have
       the same meanings assigned such terms in the Development Agreement.

               2. Sections Amended. Section 2.4 of the Second Amendment shall be added to Section
       2 of the Development Agreement to read as follows:

                      2.4 Signage. Building #1 of the Project, also identified by the street address of
               13004 S. Pony Express Road, shall be allowed to exceed the limits contained within
               Draper City Municipal Code (DCMC) sections 9-26-070(A)(1)(a) and 9-26-060(H)(3)
       regarding maximum permitted wall signage on the east facing façade as follows: one (1)
       wall sign in excess of the 250 square feet maximum size restriction for a wall sign shall
       be permitted. Said wall sign shall be no larger than 720 square feet, and must be located
       above the main entrance on the east elevation of the building. The combined square
       footage of all other wall signage on the east elevation of Building #1 shall not exceed
       437 square feet.

       All other building and site signage shall comply with the regulations found in Draper
       City Municipal Code, Chapter 9-26, as amended.

        4. Interpretation. In the event of a conflict in the terms and conditions of this Second
Amendment with the terms and conditions of the Amended Development Agreement, the
terms and conditions of this Second Amendment shall be binding and govern the conduct of
the Parties.

        5. No Other Changes. All provisions of the Amended Development Agreement, except
as specifically amended by this Second Amendment shall remain in full force and effect.

        6. Counterparts. This Second Amendment may be executed in any number of
counterparts, each of which when so executed and delivered, shall be deemed an original, but
with all such counterparts being taken together to constitute a single original.



     [Intentionally Blank – Signature Page and Acknowledgements to Follow]
                                        SIGNATURE PAGE

        IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the City and Master Developer have executed this Second

Amendment by and through their respective, duly authorized representatives, as of the Effective

Date.

 MASTER DEVELOPER                                CITY

 EXETER DRAPER LAND, LLC,                        DRAPER CITY, a municipality and political
 a Delaware limited liability company            subdivision of the State of Utah

By: Exeter Operating Partnership                 By:
V, L.P., a Delaware limited                      Print Name:
partnership, its sole member                     Its: Mayor

By: Exeter Operating Partnership
V GP LLC, a Delaware limited
liability company, its sole general
partner

By: Exeter Industrial REIT V LLC,
a Delaware limited liability
company, its sole member

 By:
 Print Name:
 Its:




Approved as to form and legality:           Attest:


City Attorney                               City Recorder


CITY ACKNOWLEDGMENT

STATE OF UTAH                )
                                 :ss.
COUNTY OF SALT LAKE )
On the             day    of                        _, 2022, personally appeared before me
                                              who being by me duly sworn, did say that he is the
Mayor of Draper City, a political subdivision of the State of Utah, and that said instrument was
signed on behalf of the City by authority of its City Council and said Mayor acknowledged to me
that the City executed the same.


                                            NOTARY PUBLIC


My Commission Expires:

Residing at:
MASTER DEVELOPER ACKNOWLEDGMENT


STATE OF                                 )
                                         :ss.
COUNTY OF                                )


         The foregoing instrument was acknowledged before me this           day of
                                    , 2022, by                         ,       the
                                    of Exeter Draper Land, LLC, a Delaware limited
liability company.



                                                  NOTARY PUBLIC

My Commission Expires:

Residing at:




                                     5
     EXHIBIT H
APPROVED WALL SIGNS
       EXHIBIT I
ADDITIONAL WALL SIGNS
     EXHIBIT J
OVERSIZE WALL SIGN
    EXHIBIT K
APPLICANT LETTERS
                           Statement of Revisions Requested

       The sole purpose of this Development Agreement Amendment Application is to
amend the development agreement titled “MASTER DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT
FOR EPG PONY EXPRESS,” approved by the City Council of Draper City, State of
Utah, on April 7, 2020, and recorded as entry 13359812, book – 10998, page 918-954
of the Official Records of Salt Lake County, Utah.

       Specifically, the requested amendment aims to allow the Building #1 of the
project to have one (1) approximately 800 (square feet) SF wall sign above the main
entrance to the building, and to increase the total allowable signage of this elevation to
1250 SF.

To accomplish this, the following language has been included in the proposed Second
Amendment “Building #1 of the Project shall be allowed one (1) 800 square feet or less
wall sign at the building frontage (east elevation). The total allowable signage area for
the east elevation shall be 1250 square feet.”

    Importantly, no other revisions to the existing development agreement are being
requested by this proposed amendment, and as such, many of the checklist items
typically submitted with a development agreement application have been intentionally
omitted. Among these items include:
    - The restrictions or conditions to be attached to the property including
        development standards and the provision of public facilities.
    - The configuration of the project as shown on a project master plan.
    - Assurances of design standards, dedication and improvement of open space,
        parks, trails, amenities, or infrastructure such as public rights-of-way or utilities.
    - The time frames for performance by the parties.
    - Provisions for enforcement of the terms and conditions of the development
        agreement.
    - Provisions for making amendments to the development agreement.
    - The time limitation of the agreement.
    - Such other terms as may be proposed and agreed to between the city and
        developer or subdivider.

   These items are already addressed within the existing development agreement, and
are not intended to be altered or revised with this proposed amendment. As such,
language has been included in the proposed amendment which states, “All provisions of
the MDA [Master Development Agreement], except as specifically amended by this
Second Amendment shall remain in full force and effect.”

                                     ARCO Design/Build Salt Lake City
                              155 N 400 W, Suite 310, Salt Lake City, UT 84103
                                      O: 385.429.7864 | arcodb.com
                                  Statement of Benefits

       The proposed amendment included within this application would allow for tenant
signage that is proportional and therefore visually appealing to the main façade of the
building. The proposed amendment would allow for signage that is consistent with the
tenant’s national branding, which is important for healthy competition and therefore the
longevity of the business and revenue the tenant will bring to Draper City.




                                  ARCO Design/Build Salt Lake City
                           155 N 400 W, Suite 310, Salt Lake City, UT 84103
                                   O: 385.429.7864 | arcodb.com
                              Additional City Approvals

Signage/Building Permit
       Following the approval and execution of the “SECOND AMENDENT TO
MASTER DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT FOR EPG PONY EXPRESS,” it is known
that the tenant of Building #1 intends upon submitting a signage permit application and
building permit application for the construction of the building signgage. These permits
would allow construction of signage which will comply with the provisions now permitted
under the proposed amendment.

       Please note that these permit applications ar being submitted by the tenant and
not being submitted on behalf of the developer. There are no other known city
approvals known at this time as it relates to this proposed amendment.




                                  ARCO Design/Build Salt Lake City
                           155 N 400 W, Suite 310, Salt Lake City, UT 84103
                                   O: 385.429.7864 | arcodb.com
