MINUTES OF THE DRAPER CITY PLANNING COMMISSION MEETING HELD ON
THURSDAY, AUGUST 10, 2023 IN THE DRAPER CITY COUNCIL CHAMBERS

PARTICIPATING: Craig Hawker, Vice-Chair
               Commission Member Gary Ogden
               Commission Member Lisa Fowler

ABSENT:               Andrew Adams, Chairman
                      Commission Member Mary Squire
                      Commission Member Susan Nixon
                      Alternate Commission Member Kendra Shirey

STAFF PRESENT: Jennifer Jastremsky, Community Development Director
               Mike Barker, City Attorney
               Tevai Haunga, City Planner
               Brien Maxfield, Senior Engineer Manager
               Amie Salazar, Office Manager

6:31 PM Business Meeting

In the absence of Chair Andrew Adams, Vice-Chair Craig Hawker called the meeting to order.

1.     Action Item: Approve Planning Commission Meeting Minutes for June 22, 2023.
       (Administrative Action)

Motion: Commissioner Fowler moved to APPROVE the Planning Commission Meeting
Minutes for June 22, 2023.

Second: Commissioner Ogden

Vote: A roll call was taken with the Commissioners voting 3-to-0 in favor of the motion.
Commissioners Fowler, Ogden, and Hawker voted “Aye”. The motion passed unanimously.

2.     Public Hearing: Pinecones and Clover Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit
       (Administrative Action)
       On the request of Jennifer Stratton, for a Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit for a
       Cottage Business to Create Homemade Jewelry to Sell Online. The Property is located at
       12857 South 600 East in the R3 (Single-Family Residential 13,000 ft minimum area) zone.
       Application USE-055-2023. Staff contact is Tevai Haunga at 801-576- 6522 or
       tevai.haunga@draperutah.gov.

City Planner, Tevai Haunga, presented the Staff Report and stated that the request is for a Cottage
Business to make homemade jewelry in the home. The property was identified on Vicinity and
Aerial Maps displayed. The land use designation is Residential Medium Density in the R3 Zone.
The applicant makes jewelry in the spare bedroom of the home and all products are sold online.
No public comment was received by staff. A photo of some of the products was displayed.
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
August 10, 2023
Page 2


The applicant, Jennifer Stratton, was present and stated that she is applying for a Home Occupation
Conditional Use Permit for her jewelry-making business.

Commissioner Fowler stated that she read the application and no customers are coming to the
business. Ms. Stratton reported that all sales are through online marketplaces and perhaps a craft
fair in the future.

Vice-Chair Hawker opened the public hearing. There were no public comments. The public
hearing was closed.

Commissioner Fowler considered the request to be very straightforward and clear that Ms. Stratton
qualifies.

Motion: Commissioner Ogden moved to APPROVE Home Occupation Conditional Use
Permit as requested by Jennifer Stratton for Application USE-055-2023 subject to the
following:

Conditions of Approval:

       1.      That all business requirements of the Draper City Engineering, Public Works
               Building, Business Licensing, Planning, and Fire Divisions are satisfied
               throughout the operation of the business.

       2.      A Business License shall be maintained for the life of the business.

       3.      Customers are not allowed to come to the property.

Findings for Approval:

       1.      Reasonable mitigation measures can be placed on the conditional use to
               alleviate anticipated detrimental effects.

Second: Commissioner Fowler.

Vote: A roll call was taken with the Commissioners voting 3-to-0 in favor of the motion.
Commissioners Fowler, Ogden, and Hawker voted “Aye”. The motion passed unanimously.

3.     Adjournment.

Community Development Director, Jennifer Jastremsky, reported that the Fall American Planners
Association (“APA”) Conference is scheduled for September 28 and 29 in Ogden. The cost of the
conference is included in the budget if interested. An email would be sent out as well to the entire
Commission. Those interested were asked to respond.
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
August 10, 2023
Page 3


Motion: Commissioner Fowler moved to ADJOURN.

Vote: The motion passed with the unanimous consent of the Commission.

The meeting adjourned at 6:36 PM.
