                                    Development Review Committee
                                        1020 East Pioneer Road
                                           Draper, UT 84020
                                                 September 1, 2023


To:               Draper City Planning Commission
                  Business Date: September 14, 2023

From:             Development Review Committee

Prepared By: Tevai Haunga, Planner I
             Planning Division
             Community Development Department
             801-576-6522, tevai.haunga@draperutah.gov

Re:      Willow Esthetics and Lash Artistry –
         Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit Request
         Application No.:  USE-070-2023
         Applicant:        Brittney Fairbanks representing The Fairbanks Family Trust
         Project Location: Approximately 1027 E. Lone Peak Lane
         Current Zoning:   RA1 (Single Family Residential 40,000 ft2 minimum area) Zone
         Acreage:          0.9 Acres (Approximately 39,204 ft2)
         Request:          Request for approval of a Home Occupation in the RA1 zone for a
                           personal care service business providing esthetic and beauty
                           services.


BACKGROUND AND SUMMARY
This application is a request for approval of a Home Occupation for approximately 0.9 acres
located at approximately 1027 E. Lone Peak Lane (Exhibits B & C). The property is currently
zoned RA1. The applicant is requesting that a home occupation conditional use permit be
approved for her home based esthetics and lash business.

The property is part of the Corner Canyon Estates subdivision and the primary home on the
property was built in 2014. The square footage of the primary home is approximately 5,500 ft2 in
size. The business is located in a detached structure located to the rear of the property built in
approximately 1995. The detached structure was previously associated with the neighboring
property to the west, but was added to this property through a property transfer done in 2009.
The business is located on the first floor of the detached structure and the total square footage
of that floor, excluding a covered patio, is approximately 1,900 ft2.

ANALYSIS
General Plan and Zoning.

 Table 1                    General Plan and Zoning Designations                       Exhibit
 Existing Land Use          Residential Low-Medium Density                             Exhibit E
 Current Zoning             RA1                                                        Exhibit D



Willow Esthetics and Lash Artistry                                   App. # USE-223-2022
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit Request           1
 Existing Use               Single Family Residential
 Adjacent Zoning
     East                   RA1
     West                   RA1
     North                  RA1
     South                  RA1


The Residential Low-Medium Density land use designation is characterized as follows:




According to Draper City Municipal Code (DCMC) Section 9-8-020 the purpose of the RA1 zone
is to “foster low density development with little impact on its surroundings and municipal
services; to generally preserve the character of the city's semirural areas; and to promote and
preserve conditions favorable to large lot family life, including the keeping of limited numbers of
animals and fowl. The predominant use in these zones is intended to be detached single-family
dwellings, protected from encroachment by commercial and industrial uses.”

Conditional Use.
The applicant lives on the property and will be the only employee of the business. Business
hours are limited Monday- Saturday between 9 am and 7 pm. The business is scheduled by
appointment only and is limited to only one client per session, with sessions running between 1-



Willow Esthetics and Lash Artistry                                   App. # USE-223-2022
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit Request     2
2 hours (Exhibit H). The applicant can service up to 4 clients a day but typically services 1-2
clients per day. There are no detrimental effects to the neighborhood or property and traffic will
be minimal and limited to typical business hours.

Home Occupation. The DCMC Section 9-34-040 outlines development standards applicable to
all home occupations. Those criteria, along with information specific to the subject request, are
as follows:

         A. Ownership: The home occupation shall be owned and operated by a person who
            resides in the dwelling where the home occupation is located. Such person shall be
            the primary provider of the labor, work, or service provided in the home occupation.

             The business owner, resides on the property, and is the sole provider of the business

         B. Business License: A business license for the home occupation shall be obtained
            from and continually maintained with the city pursuant to title 6, chapter 11 of this
            code.

             A current business license will be maintained with Draper City.

         C. Employees: Members of the family of the owner who reside in the dwelling may be
            employed in the home occupation. Nonfamily or nonresident employees shall be
            limited to one person.

             The business owner is the only person involved with the business and understands
             that going forward she may only employ one non-family member or non-resident in
             the future.

         D. Inspection: All facilities shall comply with fire, building, plumbing, electrical and all
            other city, county, state and federal codes. Inspections during reasonable hours by
            city officials may occur as necessary to assure compliance with regulations.

             Inspections for compliance with fire, building, plumbing, and electrical code will be
             completed as part of the business license review process. No modification or
             changes to the property are proposed at this time and the applicant assures that they
             will comply with the other regulations. The property is owned by a family trust and the
             trustees are the applicant’s parents who live in the primary dwelling on the site. The
             applicant indicates that they live on the second floor of the detached structure,
             however no record has been located approving habitable living space on the second
             floor. This potential zoning code violation is a separate issue and not germane to the
             requested business use of the first floor of the detached structure.

         E. Inventory: No stock in trade, inventory, or other merchandise to exceed two hundred
            fifty (250) square feet shall be kept on the premises. No outside storage is allowed.

             No stock in trade, inventory or other merchandise will be located on the premises.
             There is no outside storage.

         F. Modification Of Structures Or Yards: There shall be no visible evidence from the
            exterior of a dwelling that it is being used for any other purpose than that of a
            dwelling. No activities shall be carried on outside the dwelling in the yard for the



Willow Esthetics and Lash Artistry                                      App. # USE-223-2022
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit Request     3
              benefit of or incidental to the home occupation. No front yard area shall be altered to
              provide parking required for a home occupation.

              There will be no modification of structures and no business activities will be
              conducted outside in the yard. The business will be conducted in a detached building
              on the property.

         G. Nuisance: Tools, items, equipment, or activities conducted within the dwelling which
            is offensive or noxious by reason of the emission of odor, smoke, gas, vibration,
            magnetic interference, or noise shall be prohibited.

              The business operations will not create any of the listed nuisances.

         H. Secondary Use: The home occupation shall be clearly incidental and secondary to
            the primary use of the dwelling for residential purposes. The home occupation shall
            not disrupt the normal residential character of the neighborhood in which the
            residence is located. Not more than twenty five percent (25%) of the dwelling unit
            shall be used for the home occupation.

              The home occupation will be operated out of an existing detached building on the
              property. The business owner lives on the property. Actual square footages of the
              floor plans provided for the office space could not be verified (Exhibit G). The
              approximate square footage of the first floor of the detached structure is 1,900 ft2 and
              the applicant has indicated that they will be using about 300 ft2 of that area, which is
              equal to about 5.5% of the total square footage of the primary dwelling on the
              property.

         I.   Signs: All signage in a residential area must comply with chapter 26, "Signs", of this
              title.

              No signs will be used.

         J. Traffic, Parking, And Access: No home occupation use shall generate pedestrian,
            parking, or vehicular traffic in excess of that customarily associated with the zone in
            which the use is located. All parking shall be provided and maintained on site with
            adequate provision for drop off traffic.

              Traffic will be limited to business operating hours. There is adequate parking on the
              driveway. The studio is scheduled by appointment which ensures sufficient traffic
              flow, parking and safety for customers during each session.

         K. Vehicles: Other than the business owner's personal transportation, there shall be no
            vehicles or equipment on the property associated with the home occupation which
            would not normally be found at a residence. No signage for the home occupation
            shall be allowed on vehicles.

              No vehicles other than business owner’s personal transportation will be utilized for
              the business. No signage will be on vehicles.

         L. Yards: Yards surrounding the dwelling and accessory buildings shall not be used for
            any activities or storage of any materials associated with the home occupation.



Willow Esthetics and Lash Artistry                                      App. # USE-223-2022
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit Request     4
             Yards will not be used for any activities or storage of any materials associated with
             the business.

         M. Customers: No customers allowed. Children accessing a limited daycare or limited
            preschool facility shall not be considered customers.

             Hours of operations are limited to weekdays 9am-7pm. All business services are
             made by appointment.

         N. Utility Demand: The home occupation shall not cause a demand for public utilities in
            excess of that necessarily and customarily provided for residential uses.

             The home occupation will not create an excessive demand to existing public utilities.

         O. Main Structure: The home occupations shall be conducted, located, and contained
            within the primary structure on the property.

             The applicant will do appointments out of a detached accessory structure. The
             conditional use permit will allow for this exception to this standard with approval of
             the Planning Commission.

         P. Single-Family And Multiple-Family Dwellings: Home occupations listed as permitted
            or conditional within this title may be permitted in a single-family or a multiple-family
            dwelling, subject to the standards found within this section and section 9-34-060 of
            this chapter. Businesses within multiple-family dwellings shall provide an approval
            letter from the respective homeowners' association, or management company in the
            case of apartments, if the business proposes any employees, customers or business
            vehicles.

             The property is a single-family dwelling. The application submittal was made jointly
             by the trustees of The Fairbanks Family Trust.

         Q. Licensure: Any home occupation involving childcare shall comply with all applicable
            state and local laws and regulations regarding residential childcare, including, but not
            limited to, provisions of the Utah child care licensing act, as set forth in Utah Code
            Annotated section 26-39-101 et seq., as amended, and the residential certificate
            childcare standards as set forth in the Utah administrative code section R430-50-1 et
            seq., as amended. In addition, cottage food production operations are regulated and
            inspected by the Utah department of agriculture. Any food related home occupation
            under their jurisdiction must comply with these regulations.

             This business does not included childcare or food handling.

Criteria For Approval.
The criteria for review and potential approval of a conditional use permit request is found in
Section 9-5-080(E) of the DCMC. This section depicts the standard of review for such requests
as:

         E. Approval Standards: The standards of this subsection shall apply to the issuance of a
             conditional use permit:



Willow Esthetics and Lash Artistry                                     App. # USE-223-2022
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit Request     5
          1. A conditional use permit may be issued for a use to be located within a zone where
             the particular conditional use is allowed by the use regulations of the zone.
          2. Reasonable conditions may be imposed as necessary to substantially mitigate
             reasonably anticipated detrimental effects of the proposed use. These conditions
             may include conditions concerning use, construction, character, location,
             landscaping, screening, parking, hours of operation, and other matters relating to the
             purposes and objectives of this section. Such conditions shall be expressly set forth
             in the motion authorizing the conditional use permit.
          3. If the reasonably anticipated detrimental effects of a proposed conditional use cannot
             be substantially mitigated by the imposition of reasonable conditions to achieve
             compliance with applicable standards, the conditional use may be denied.
          4. The following factors shall be reviewed and considered in determining whether a
             conditional use permit application should be approved, approved with conditions, or
             denied because reasonable conditions cannot be imposed to achieve compliance
             with applicable standards:
               a. The harmony and compliance of the proposed use with the objectives and
                  requirements of the city's general plan and this title;
               b. The suitability of the specific property for the proposed use;
               c. Whether the proposed use or facility may be injurious to potential or existing
                  development in the vicinity;
               d. The economic impact of the proposed facility or use on the surrounding area;
               e. The aesthetic impact of the proposed facility or use on the surrounding area;
               f. The safeguards proposed or provided to ensure adequate utilities, transportation
                  access, drainage, parking, loading space, lighting, screening, landscaping, open
                  space, fire protection, and pedestrian and vehicular circulation;
               g. The safeguards provided or proposed to prevent noxious or offensive emissions
                  such as noise, glare, dust, pollutants and odor from the proposed facility or use;
                  and
               h. The impact of the proposed facility or use on the health, safety, and welfare of
                  the city, the area, and persons owning or leasing property in the area.
          5. The planning commission may request additional information as may be reasonably
             needed to determine whether the requirements of this subsection E can be met.


REVIEWS
Planning Division Review. The Draper City Planning Division has completed their review of the
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit submission. Comments from this division, if any, can
be found in Exhibit A.

Engineering and Public Works Divisions Review. The Draper City Engineering and Public
Works Divisions have completed their reviews of the Home Occupation Conditional Use
submission. Comments from these divisions, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Building Division Review. The Draper City Building Division has completed their review of the
Home Occupation Conditional Use submission. Comments from this division, if any, can be
found in Exhibit A.

Fire Division Review. The Draper City Fire Marshal has completed his review of the Home
Occupation Conditional Use submission. Comments from this division, if any, can be found in
Exhibit A.




Willow Esthetics and Lash Artistry                                    App. # USE-223-2022
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit Request    6
Legal Division Review. The Draper City Attorney has completed his review of the Home
Occupation Conditional Use submission. Comments from this division, if any, can be found in
Exhibit A.

Noticing. Notice has been properly issued in the manner outlined in the City and State Codes.


STAFF RECOMMENDATION
Staff recommends that the Planning Commission approve the request based on the findings
listed below and the criteria for approval, as listed within the staff report. The Planning
Commission should also review the request, hear from the applicant, and receive public
comment prior to making a decision.

If the Planning Commission decides to approve the request, staff recommends they include the
following conditions of approval:

         1.       That all requirements of the Draper City Engineering, Public Works, Building,
                  Business Licensing, Planning, and Fire Divisions are satisfied throughout the
                  operation of the business.
         2.       A business license shall be maintained for the life of the business.
         3.       All customers shall park within the driveway. No on-street parking is allowed.

The findings for approval as are follows:
       1.      Reasonable mitigation measures are placed on the conditional use to alleviate
               anticipated detrimental effects.

The findings for denial as are follows:

         1.       Reasonable mitigation measures cannot be placed on the conditional use to
                  alleviate anticipated detrimental effects.


MODEL MOTIONS
Sample Motion for Approval – I move that we approve the home occupation conditional use
permit, as requested by Brittney Fairbanks, application USE-070-2022, based on the findings
and subject to the conditions listed in the staff report dated September 1, 2023.

Sample Motion for Modified Approval – I move that we approve the home occupation conditional
use permit, as requested by Brittney Fairbanks, application USE-070-2023, based on the
findings and subject to the conditions listed in the staff report dated September 1, 2023 as
modified by the findings and conditions below:

         1. List any additional findings and general conditions…

Sample Motion for Denial - I move that we deny the home occupation conditional use permit, as
requested by Brittney Fairbanks, application USE-070-2023, based on the findings listed in the
staff report dated September 1, 2023, and as modified by the findings below.

         1. List additional findings…




Willow Esthetics and Lash Artistry                                     App. # USE-223-2022
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit Request     7
                                        EXHIBIT A
                                   DEPARTMENT REVIEWS

REVIEWS ARE NOT MEANT TO BE AN ALL INCLUSIVE LIST OF POSSIBLE COMMENTS
OR CONDITIONS.


Planning Division Review.

   1. No additional comments provided.

Engineering and Public Works Divisions Review.

   1. The present and future requirements for transportation, traffic, water, sewer, and other utilities
      for the subject site do not appear to be detrimentally impacted as described. Given the location
      and proposed use, the use is not anticipated to generate a significant impact to water, sewer,
      or other potential utilities.

   2. The number of trips generated by the home owner/employees will not have a detrimental
      impact to traffic in the area due no employees and up to two customers visiting the
      accessory dwelling unit behind the primary residential structure. The applicant has
      indicated all services will be provided within the residence. With the applicant’s
      anticipation that there will be no more than two customers at a time and no additional
      employees, no significant impact to traffic is anticipated with the proposed use.

   3. On-street parking is requested for the customers in the application. Lone Peak Lane is a public
      local street where on-street parking is currently permitted. Parking on Lone Peak Lane may
      impact traffic if it is during poor weather or if there are other cars parked on the opposite side
      of the street nearby. However, based on the information from the applicant, no significant
      impact to parking is anticipated with the proposed use.

   4. The proposed use does not appear detrimental to the health, safety, or general welfare of the
      persons residing or working in the vicinity, or injurious to the property or improvements in the
      vicinity.


Building Division Review.

   1. No additional comments provided.

Fire Division Review.

   1. 2-A-10BC Fire extinguishers required. The extinguisher needs to be a serviceable type
      meaning metal head and metal neck. Extinguishers need to be located in a conspicuous
      location where they will be readily accessible and immediately available for use. Placed
      on every level of the home. If in cabinet or not the extinguisher or cabinet needs to be
      mounted so that the top is not more than five (5) feet above the floor.
   2. There shall be single station interconnected smoke detectors in good working condition
      on each level occupied by the clients. Battery operated smoke detectors shall be,
      permitted if the home demonstrates testing, maintenance, and batter replacement to
      insure continued operation of the smoke detectors.
Visible addressing is required. New and existing buildings shall have approved address
numbers plainly visible from the street fronting the property. These numbers shall contrast with
their background.
 EXHIBIT B
VICINTY MAP
 EXHIBIT C
AERIAL MAP
 EXHIBIT D
ZONING MAP
  EXHIBIT E
LAND USE MAP
 EXHIBIT F
SITE PLANS
 EXHIBIT G
FLOOR PLAN
      EXHIBIT H
APPLICANT RESPONSES
