MEMO
To: Planning Commission
From: Jennifer Jastremsky, AICP
Date: 2023-12-07
Re: Public Hearing: City Initiated Bluffdale Deannexation Zoning and Land Use Map Amendment
(Legislative Action)



Comments:


This application is a request for approval of a Zoning and Land Use Map Amendment for
approximately 0.889 acres located on the north side of 14600 S, at approximately 600 W 14600 S.
The property is currently zoned M1.



Draper City and Bluffdale City are currently working on a municipal boundary line adjustment that
will remove the property from Draper City's Jurisdiction and place it in the jurisdiction of Bluffdale
City. As part of that process the zoning and land use designations for the property will need to be
removed from the Zoning and Land Use Maps. The approved Draper City Resolution listing the
intent to adjust the boundary between Draper and Bluffdale can be found in Exhibit G of the
attached staff report.




The property owner is looking to develop their property, which includes a total of 22.9 acres of land.
The intent of adjusting the municipal boundary between Draper and Bluffdale is to ensure the
entire property is in one jurisdiction.




The findings for a positive recommendation are as are follows:
  1. The proposed amendment is consistent with goals, objectives and policies of the city's
      general plan.
  2. The proposed amendment is harmonious with the overall character of existing development
     in the vicinity of the subject property.
  3. The proposed amendment is consistent with the standards of any applicable overlay zone.
  4. The proposed amendment will not adversely affect adjacent property.
  5. There will be adequate facilities and services intended to serve the subject property within
      Bluffdale City. Given the property being land locked, Draper City cannot provide services to
      this property. Services include, but not limited to, roadways, parks and recreation facilities,
      police and fire protection, schools, stormwater drainage systems, water supplies, and
     wastewater and refuse collection.
  6. The proposed amendment complies with DCMC Section 9-2-020(F).




ATTACHMENTS:

Bluffdale Deannex ZC-LUMA- PC Staff Report -12-7-23 Combined.pdf
