                      CITY COUNCIL AGENDA

                      Tuesday, October 3, 2023, 5:30 PM
                      Council Chambers


STUDY MEETING

      Closed Session - by Motion

      The Draper City Council may temporarily recess the regular meeting and
      convene in a closed session to discuss the character, professional competence,
      or physical or mental health of an individual, pending or reasonably imminent
      litigation, or the purchase, exchange, or lease of real property, as provided by
      UCA 52-4-205.


      Interview: Applicants to the Jordan Valley Water Conservancy District
      board vacancy.

      Council/Manager Reports

BUSINESS MEETING

1.    Call to Order

2.    Pledge of Allegiance

3.    Public Comments
      To be considerate of everyone attending the meeting, public comments will be
      restricted to items that are not listed on this or a future agenda and limited to three
      minutes per person. Comments which cannot be made within these limits should be
      submitted in writing to the City Recorder prior to noon the day before the meeting.
      Comments pertaining to an item on the agenda should not be given at this time but
      should be held until that item is called.

4.    Consent Items

      4.a Approval of September 12, 2023, City Council Meeting Minutes.

      4.b Approval of the September 19, 2023, City Council Meeting Minutes.

      4.c Approval of Ordinance #1589
          An Ordinance of the Draper City Council amending Title 3 of the Draper City
          Municipal Code regarding a liaison to the Historic Preservation Commission.
          Staff: Mike Barker
         4.d Approval of Resolution #23-56
             A Resolution of the Draper City Council amending Section 8070 of the
             Personnel Policies and Procedures Manual regarding Unpaid Leave. Staff:
             Malena Murray

         4.e Approval of Resolution #23-57
             A Resolution appointing Stefania Wilks as a regular member of the Draper
             City Special Event Arena Committee.

         4.f Approval of Resolution #23-58
             A Resolution appointing Christa Hutchinson as a member of the Draper City
             Historic Preservation Commission.

5.       Items for Council Consideration

         5.a Action Item: Ordinance #1588
             An Ordinance of the Draper City Council adopting the 2023 Draper City
             Parks, Trails and Recreation Master Plan. Staff report by Rhett Ogden.

6.       Adjournment

I, the City Recorder of Draper City, certify that copies of this agenda for the Draper City
Council meeting to be held October 3, 2023, were posted at Draper City Hall, Draper City
website www.draperutah.gov, and the Utah Public Notice website at www.utah.gov/pmn.

Date Posted:
                                             Laura Oscarson, MMC, City Recorder
                                             Draper City, State of Utah




In compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act, any individuals needing special
accommodations or services during this meeting shall notify Laura Oscarson, City
Recorder at (801) 576-6502 or laura.oscarson@draperutah.gov, at least 24 hours prior to
the meeting.
