MINUTES OF THE DRAPER CITY PLANNING COMMISSION MEETING HELD ON
THURSDAY, DECEMBER 8, 2022 IN THE DRAPER CITY COUNCIL CHAMBERS

PARTICIPATING:      Chairman Andrew Adams, Commissioners Craig Hawker, Lisa Fowler,
                    Mary Squire and Alternate Commissioners Susan Nixon and Tab Bingham

ABSENT:             Commissioners Gary Ogden, DeLaina Tonks, and Kendra Shirey

STAFF PRESENT:      Jennifer Jastremsky, Laura Oscarson, Brien Maxfield, Spencer DuShane,
                    Mike Barker, Maryann Pickering, Tevai Haunga


6:30 PM Business Meeting


1.    Action Item; Approve Planning Commission Meeting Minutes for September 22,
      2022 (Administrative Action)

      Motion: Commissioner Lisa Fowler moved to approve the minutes from the
      September 22, 2022 Planning Commission meeting, with the change of adding page
      numbers to the final draft.

      Second: Commissioner Craig Hawker

      Vote: A roll call was taken with the Commissioners voting 5-0 in favor of the motion.
      Commissioners Fowler, Hawker, Squire, Nixon, and Bingham voted, “Aye”.

2.    Action Item: Approve Planning Commission Meeting Minutes for October 13, 2022
      (Administrative Action)

      Motion: Commissioner Mary Squire moved to approve the minutes from the
      October 13, 2022 Planning Commission meeting.

      Second: Commissioner Tab Bingham

      Vote: A roll call was taken with the Commissioners voting 5-0 in favor of the motion.
      Commissioners Fowler, Hawker, Squire, Nixon, and Bingham voted, “Aye”.

3.    Action Item: Approve Planning Commission Meeting Minutes for October 27, 2022
      (Administrative Action)

      Motion: Commissioner Susan Nixon moved to approve the minutes from the October
      27, 2022 Planning Commission meeting, with the proposed changes as presented on
      the screen.

      Second: Commissioner Mary Squire
Draper City Planning Commission
December 8, 2022
Page 2

       Vote: A roll call was taken with the Commissioners voting 5-0 in favor of the motion.
       Commissioners Fowler, Hawker, Squire, Nixon, and Bingham voted, “Aye”.
4.     Action Item: 2023 Chair and Vice-chair Appointments (Administrative Action)

       Motion: Commissioner Squire made a motion to nominate Andrew Adams as
       chairman for 2023.

       Second: Commissioner Hawker

       Vote: A roll call was taken with the Commissioners voting 5-0 in favor of the motion.
       Commissioners Fowler, Hawker, Squire, Nixon, and Bingham voted, “Aye”

       Motion: Commissioner Fowler made a motion to nominate Craig Hawker as vice
       chairman for 2023.

       Second: Commissioner Tab Bingham

       Vote: A roll call was taken with the Commissioners voting 5-0 in favor of the motion.
       Commissioners Fowler, Hawker, Squire, Nixon, and Bingham voted, “Aye”


5.     Public Hearing: Southfork Lot 2 Zoning Map Amendment (Legislative Action)
On the request of Brad and Catherin Findlay, property owners, for a zoning map amendment to
change the zoning from RA1 (Residential Agricultural, 40,000 square foot lot minimum) to RA2
(Residential Agricultural, 20,000 square foot minimum) for approximately 1.61 acres located at
approximately 1094 E 13800 S. Application: TEXTMAP- 134-2021. Staff contact: Maryann
Pickering at 801-576-6391 or maryann.pickering@draperutah.gov.
Commissioner Hawker asked to recuse himself from the hearing and was excused from this item.
Maryann Pickering presented the project. The applicant Brad and Catherin Findlay, property
owners, were requesting the change in zones from RA1 to RA2. The Applicants would like to
come back and apply for a subdivision to sell the property behind them, if it was approved through
the city council with a positive recommendation. A private road would have to be put in, and a
possible demolition of a structure would need to take place if it were approved. There were public
comments made over the phone and email in opposition of this item.
Applicant Brad Findlay addressed the commissioners. Mr. Brad Findlay stated that his original
plan was to raise his kids with horses and that was why they bought the property years ago. His
children had allergies and having horses was not an option for them. Now the children have all
grown and moved away and the property was hard to keep up on maintenance. The structure to
be removed was a barn, if this structure were removed Mr. Brad Findlay stated they could build
a home that would be the exact size of the current barn.
Chairman Adams opened the public hearing.
Draper City Planning Commission
December 8, 2022
Page 3
Public Comment:
Dave Oeser (Resident in opposition). This change could impact his barn, horses, fences and
neighboring property. Mr. Dave Oeser stated he thinks it should stay horse property. It is the way
it was designed for the location.
Ed Peterson (Resident in opposition). Mr. Ed Peterson stated large lots are nice. The between
houses should be bigger, because it provided more privacy. Mr. Ed Peterson stated the setbacks
were off, and against code. He expressed his concern that a ten-foot setback on a busy street was
not ideal. Mr. Ed Peterson stated that landscaping should not be an issue. He expressed concern
and said if this were to be approved Mr. Ed Peterson would file a class action lawsuit against the
city and Findlay’s for the change in home values and lifestyles.
Catherine Findlay (Applicant) explained she was unaware of the opposition. Mrs. Catherine
Findlay stated that they love their neighbors and want to keep the peace.
Tracie Petersen (Resident in opposition). Miss Tracie Petersen was not notified of the meeting.
She stated that none of the neighbors in the area were notified of this or of the meeting. Change
does happen, but the neighbors don't want townhomes to go up near them. It is not a big enough
space for this to take place.
Chairman Adams closed the public hearing.
Commissioner Nixon asked what the radius of notifications went out to the neighbors. Jennifer
Jastremsky stated it was a 400-foot radius and approximately 21-22 notices were sent out in the
mail.
The commissioners discussed this item, noting the concerns of the residents. The commissioners
agreed that this would not be the best interest for the property, they have seen it happen in other
locations. Chairman Adams asked what the topography of the land was. A map was shown that
the back property had a slight incline and hill. Chairman Adams stated it is a case-by-case
scenario, it would potentially be doable, the question was should it be done?


       Motion: Commissioner Fowler motioned to make a negative recommendation for a
       Zoning Map Amendment to change the zoning from RA1 (Residential Agricultural,
       40,000 square foot lot minimum) to RA2 (Residential Agricultural, 20,000 square
       foot minimum) as requested by Brad and Catherin Findlay. Application
       TEXTMAP- 134-2021. Based on the findings and subject to the conditions listed in
       the staff report dated November 29, 2022.

       Second: Commissioner Bingham

       Vote: A roll call was taken with the Commissioners voting 3-1 in favor of the motion.
       Commissioners Fowler, Squire, and Bingham voted, “Aye”; Commissioner Nixon
       voted “Nay”
6.     Public Hearing: Kuwahara’s Pumpkin Patch & Thriller Park Conditional Use
       Permit (Admit
Draper City Planning Commission
December 8, 2022
Page 4
On the request of Alex Kuwahara for a Conditional Use Permit for outdoor storage on 4.19 acres
of land located at 12153 S 700 W. Application USE-180-2022. Staff contact is Jennifer
Jastremsky, 801-576-6328, jennifer.jastremsky@draperutah.gov
Jennifer Jastremsky presented the project. Kuwahara’s pumpkin patch and thriller park has
requested the use of outdoor storage during their off season. This property has always been
agriculture, it has gotten bigger over the years and rather than the applicant Mr. Alex Kuwahara
storing things off site they have requested to store things onsite. Each year the business applies
for a special event application for their business.

The question arose about fencing for the areas where the storage would take place. What type of
fencing would be used?

Miss. Jennifer Jastremsky stated that is a question for the applicant. -Lisa speaking not permanent
fencing,

Applicant: Alex Kuwahara addressed the commissioners, he stated that offsite storage costs have
gone up. Mr. Alex Kuwahara would like to store all things onsite to cut down the costs and keep
the budget down for their business to flourish. His family has been farming on that location for
fifty years. This business has gotten bigger each year.

The commissioners asked Mr. Alex Kuwahara about the fence, what type would be used, and if
storage sheds would be brought in.

Mr. Alex Kuwahara stated all things stored on site would be in current sheds, greenhouses, and
buildings they already have. The type of fencing that would be used was the walls of the castle
on the inside. They would be like a partition closing off to the public and if anyone broke into the
property, they would not be able to access. The entire property is surrounded with a fence, but the
storage would not be in heaps, it would be securely and neatly in the buildings.

Commissioner Adams opened the public hearing

Public Comment:
JoDee Esplin (Resident) Miss JoDee Esplin was concerned if this was approved this would be a
rubber-stamped approval. That would make it so the business would not have to come in and
reapply for further applications. Miss JoDee Esplin expressed concern about the parking issue,
during the events cars were parked along both sides of busy streets, making it dangerous for all
involved.

Chairman Adams closed the public hearing

Chairman Adams asked the applicant Alex Kuwahara about the parking, and how it could
potentially fix the parking issue.

Mr. Alex Kuwahara stated with the business getting bigger and bigger the parking and traffic was
definitely impacted. Mr. Alex Kuwahara reported to the commissioners that he plans to post no
Draper City Planning Commission
December 8, 2022
Page 5
parking signs in areas. He also stated they hope to create a shuttle, from a local park to the location
to help with this in coming years.

        Motion: Commissioner Nixon made the motion to approve the Conditional Use
        Permit as requested by Alex Kuwahara for Kuwahara’s Pumpkin Patch & Thriller
        Park. Application USE-180-2022. Based on the findings and subject to the conditions
        listed in the staff report dated November 29, 2022. Emphasizing on the conditional
        use permit and not on the special event application.

        Second: Commissioner Squire

        Vote: A roll call was taken with the Commissioners voting 5-0 in favor of the motion.
        Commissioners Fowler, Hawker, Squire, Nixon, and Bingham voted, “Aye”

7.      Public Hearing: Draper Frontrunner Apartments Master Area Plan Amendment
        (Legislative Action)
On the request of Jake Hemingway, property owner, for a Master Area Plan Amendment for the
purpose of amending the approved Vista Station Master Area Plan. The subject site to be amended
was approximately 13003 S. Frontrunner Boulevard in the TSD (Transit Station District) zone.
Application: TEXTMAP-183-2022. Staff contact: Maryann Pickering at 801-576-6391 or
maryann.pickering@draperutah.gov
Maryann Pickering reported on this project. The project was located on the front runner property.
The lot is currently vacant. The applicant would like to develop the property into office and
residential area utilizing the front runner property to its fullest. The zoning is TSD (Transit Station
District). The master plan would be to reallocate the density from TSD 2 to TSD 1 to provide up
to 118 units. This request of change would update the charts and maps.
Applicant: Jake Hemingway felt like this was the perfect location for this change, and would
utilize the public transportation area better. The height of the proposed building was seven floors.
(40ft)
Chairman Adams opened the public hearing.
No public comment.
Chairman Adams closed the public hearing.

        Motion: Commissioner Hawker moved to make a positive recommendation to the
        city council for the Map Amendment as requested by Jake Hemingway. Application
        TEXTMAP-183-2022. Based on the findings and subject to the conditions listed in
        the staff report dated November 29, 2022.

        Second: Commissioner Bingham

        Vote: A roll call was taken with the Commissioners voting 5-0 in favor of the motion.
        Commissioners Fowler, Hawker, Squire, Nixon, and Bingham voted, “Aye”
Draper City Planning Commission
December 8, 2022
Page 6
8.     Public Hearing: Draper Galena Park Office Site Plan (Administrative Action)
On the request of Logan Fawcett, representing The Boyer Company, for a Site Plan on 3.93 acres
of land located at 681 West 12300 South. Application SPR-135-2022. Staff contact is Jennifer
Jastremsky, 801-576-6328, jennifer.jastremsky@draperutah.gov
Jennifer Jastremsky presented the project; she informed the commissioners that they had seen a
rezone application earlier this year. This project would be consolidating four properties into one.
The homes that were currently on the property are being demolished. This was for a single office
building with two access entries on twenty first street. The site will have plenty of parking. The
property is near Galena Park and the applicant was working with the city for the grading as the
park progresses. The landscaping is twenty five percent, and the only grass area would be near a
pickleball court. The building design would be modern and would be about forty-five feet tall.
Applicant: Logan Fawcett informed the commissioners the homes are nearly all demolished.
Chairman Adams opened the public hearing
No public comment
Chairman Adams closed the public hearing


       Motion: Craig moved to approve the site plan as requested by Logan Fawcett
       representing The Boyer Company for the Draper Galena Park Office Site Plan.
       Application SPR-135-2022. Based on the findings and subject to the conditions listed
       in the staff report dated November 30, 2022.

       Second: Commissioner Nixon

       Vote: A roll call was taken with the Commissioners voting 5-0 in favor of the motion.
       Commissioners Fowler, Hawker, Squire, Nixon, and Bingham voted, “Aye
9.     Public Hearing: City initiated Oak Vista No. 2 at Suncrest Lot 60 (Administrative
       Action) This item is being continued to the January 12, 2023 Planning Commission
       meeting.
On the request of Draper City for a plat amendment to adjust common property lines between
Draper City and the Suncrest Homeowners Association. The modifications affected
approximately 12, 176 square feet of area and is located at approximately 14886 South Traverse
Ridge Road. Application SUBD-214-2022. Staff contact is Jennifer Jastremsky, 801-576-6328,
jennifer.jastremsky@draperutah.gov.
Chairman Adams stated this item was moved to the January 12, 2023 meeting.
Jennifer Jastremsky stated the next Planning Commission is canceled. Joint meeting January 10,
2023 planning and city council.
10.    Commissioner Hawker made the motion to adjourn.
       The meeting was adjourned at 7:57p.m.
