                                   Development Review Committee
                                        1020 East Pioneer Road
                                          Draper, UT 84020
                                            May 16, 2023

To:               Draper City Planning Commission
                  Business Date: May 25, 2023

From:             Development Review Committee

Prepared By: Tevai Haunga, Planner I
             Planning Division
             Community Development Department
             801-576-6522, tevai.haunga@draperutah.gov

Re:      Epic Blooms LLC – Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit Request
         Application No.:  USE-028-2023
         Applicant:        Katherine Pendergast, applicant
         Project Location: 15281 S. Tall Woods Drive
         Current Zoning:   RM (Multi Family Residential Zone) and Suncrest Master
                           Development Agreement.
         Acreage:          0.7 Acres (Approximately 30,492 square feet)
         Request:          Request for approval of a Home Occupation in the RM zone for a
                           cottage business making and selling floral arrangements from the
                           home.


BACKGROUND AND SUMMARY
This application is a request for approval of a Home Occupation for approximately 0.7 acres
located at approximately 15281 S. Tall Woods Drive.,(Exhibit B & C). The property is currently
zoned RM. The applicant is requesting that a Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit be
approved for a cottage business. The applicant is making floral arrangements in the home and
delivering them to customers. No customers or employees are coming to the home.

The property is part of the Oak Vista No. 8 at Suncrest subdivision and the home was built in
2007.

As this is part of the Suncrest Master Development Agreement, the property and zoning is
subject to the 1999 Draper City Municipal Code.


ANALYSIS

General Plan and Zoning.




Epic Blooms LLC                                            App. # USE-028-2023
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit           1
 Table 1                     General Plan and Zoning Designations                  Exhibit
 Existing Land Use           Residential Medium Density                            Exhibit D
 Current Zoning              RM                                                    Exhibit E
 Proposed Use
 Adjacent Zoning
     East                    CR
     West                    RM
     North                   RM
     South                   RM

The Residential Medium Density land use designation is characterized as follows:




According to Draper City Municipal Code (DCMC) Section 9-8-020 the purpose of the purpose of
the RA1 and RA2 zones is to “permit well designed apartments, townhomes, twin homes,
and condominiums at relatively high densities that are appropriately buffered from and
compatible with surrounding land uses.”

Home Occupation. The applicant is requesting a Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit is to
run a home based floral shop. These made to order floral arrangements are made in the



Epic Blooms LLC                                          App. # USE-028-2023
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit           2
basement of the home and delivered to customers. Customers are able to place orders
throughout the day online with delivery services running from 9 am – 6 pm Monday- Sunday.
There are no customers or employees coming to the home. There are no work vehicles
associated with the business as all deliveries are made with personal vehicles.

1999 DCMC SECTION 9-4-140 Home Occupations

(a)      Notwithstanding other sections of this Title, a home occupation shall be considered a
         permitted use in any residential, multiple family and agriculture zone if the proposed
         use meets all of the following conditions:

         1.       The home occupation is a home office, beauty salon, pre-school or day care
                  business, as regulated by the State of Utah.

                  -The home occupation is a home based floral business which requires a
                  Conditional Use Permit

         2.       The business is owned and operated by the resident of the home.

                  -Epic Blooms LLC is owned and operated by the home owner, Katherine
                  Pendergast.

         3.       No employees, other than residents of the home, utilize the facility.

                  -There are no employees who reside outside of the home.

         4.       For beauty salon, pre-school or day care business, the hours of operation do
                  not begin before 7 a.m. or extend beyond 8 p.m.

                  -Not applicable as this is a home based floral business. Operating hours are
                  Monday – Sunday 9am to 6 pm.

         5.       A business license is obtained from, and continually maintained with the City.

                  -The applicant will comply with this section requirement.

         6.       All facilities are inspected by the Fire Department prior to initial use and meet
                  Fire Department standards at all times.

                  -The applicant will comply with any and all inspections.

         7.       All drop-off or customer parking is accommodated on paved portions of the
                  property.

                  -There are no customers coming to the home as the applicant will be delivering
                  all products.

(b)      Any home occupation which does not meet the provisions outlined above shall be




Epic Blooms LLC                                               App. # USE-028-2023
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit              3
         processed as a Conditional Use in accordance with Section 9-2-104 of this Title.

         -The applicant has applied for a Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit.


Criteria For Approval.
The 1999 DCMC Section 9-2-104(I) outlines the standards to which the Planning Commission
should consider to determine whether a conditional use permit application should be approved,
denied, or approved with conditions:

(1)      Factors. The following factors shall be reviewed and considered by the Planning
         Commission in determining whether a conditional use permit application should be
         approved, denied, or approved with conditions.

         1.       The harmony and compliance of the proposed use with the objectives and
                  requirements of the City General Plan and Zoning Ordinances.

         2.       The suitability of the specific property for the proposed use.

         3.       The development or lack of development adjacent to the proposed site and the
                  harmony of the proposed use with the existing uses in the neighborhood.

         4.       Whether or not the proposed use or facility may be injurious to potential or
                  existing development within the vicinity.

         5.       The economic impact of the proposed facility or use on the surrounding area.

         6.       The aesthetic impact of the proposed facility or use on the surrounding area.

         7.       Whether or not the proposed use or facility is necessary or desirable to the City.

         8.       The number of other similar conditional uses in the area and the public need for
                  the proposed conditional use.

         9.       The present and future requirements for transportation, traffic, water, sewer,
                  and other utilities, for the proposed site and surrounding area.

         10.      The safeguards proposed or provided to insure adequate utilities, transportation
                  access, drainage, parking, loading space, lighting, screening, landscaping, open
                  space, fire protection, and pedestrian and vehicular circulation.

         11.      The safeguards provided or proposed to prevent noxious or offensive omissions
                  such as noise, glare, dust, pollutants and odor from the proposed facility or use.

         12.      The safeguards provided or proposed to minimize other adverse effects from the
                  proposed facility or use on persons or property in the area.

         13.      The impact of the proposed facility or use on the health, safety, and welfare of




Epic Blooms LLC                                               App. # USE-028-2023
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit              4
                  the City, the area, and persons owning or leasing property in the area.

         14.      The appropriateness and compatibility of the proposed use with the use tables
                  set forth in this Title for the zone in which the property is located.

REVIEWS

Planning Division Review. The Draper City Planning Division has completed their review of the
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit submission. Comments from this division, if any, can
be found in Exhibit A.

Engineering and Public Works Divisions Review. The Draper City Engineering and Public Works
Divisions have completed their reviews of the Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit
submission. Comments from these divisions, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Building Division Review. The Draper City Building Division has completed their review of the
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit submission. Comments from this division, if any, can
be found in Exhibit A.

Fire Division Review. The Draper City Fire Marshal has completed his review of the Home
Occupation Conditional Use Permit.


STAFF RECOMMENDATION
Staff recommends that the Planning Commission review the request based on the findings listed
below and the criteria for approval, or denial as listed within the staff report. The Planning
Commission should also review the request, hear from the applicant, and receive public
comment prior to making a decision.

If the Planning Commission decides to approve the request, staff recommends they include the
following conditions of approval:

         1.       That all business requirements of the Draper City Engineering, Public Works
                  Building, Business Licensing, Planning and Fire Divisions are satisfied throughout
                  the operation of the business.
         2.       A business license shall be maintained for the life of the business.
         3.       Customers are not allowed to come to the property.
         4.       Employees who do not reside in the home are not allowed.

The findings for approval as are follows:

         1. Reasonable mitigation measures can be placed on the conditional use to alleviate
            anticipated detrimental effects.

The findings for denial as are follows:
       1. Reasonable mitigation measures cannot be placed on the conditional use to alleviate
           anticipated detrimental effects.




Epic Blooms LLC                                              App. # USE-028-2023
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit             5
MODEL MOTIONS

Sample Motion for Approval – I move that we approve the Epic Blooms LLC Home Occupation
Conditional Use Permit, as requested by Katherine Pendergast representing application USE-
028-2023 based on the findings and subject to the conditions listed in the Staff Report dated
May 16, 2023.

Sample Motion for Modified Approval– I move that we approve the Epic Blooms LLC Home
Occupation Conditional Use Permit, as requested by Katherine Pendergast, application USE-028-
2023, based on the findings and subject to the conditions listed in the Staff Report dated May
16, 2023 and as modified by the findings and conditions below:

         1. List any additional findings and conditions…

Sample Motion for Denial – I move that we deny the Epic Blooms LLC Home Occupation
Conditional Use Permit as requested by Katherine Pendergast, application USE-028-2023, based
on the findings listed in the Staff Report dated May 16, 2023.




Epic Blooms LLC                                            App. # USE-028-2023
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit           6
                                       EXHIBIT A
                                  DEPARTMENT REVIEWS

REVIEWS ARE NOT MEANT TO BE AN ALL INCLUSIVE LIST OF POSSIBLE COMMENTS OR
CONDITIONS.

Planning Division Review.

       1. No additional comments provided.

Engineering and Public Works Divisions Review.

       1. The present and future requirements for transportation, traffic, water, sewer, and
          other utilities for the subject site do not appear to be detrimentally impacted as
          described. Given the location and proposed use, the use is not anticipated to
          generate a significant impact to water, sewer, or other potential utilities.
       2. The number of trips generated by the home owner/employees will not have a
          detrimental impact to traffic in the area due no employees and no customers visiting
          the house. The applicant has indicated product will be produced within the residence
          but will be sold at craft fairs or other points of sale locations. With the applicant’s no
          customers and no additional employees, no significant impact to traffic is anticipated
          with the proposed use.
       3. No additional parking is anticipated for employees where the applicants being the
          only owner/employees. The applicant indicated no changes to the existing home use
          or parking. Materials will be brought to the house by the owner and delivered to the
          point of sale as part of the process, with no deliveries or truck traffic expected.
          Parking on Tall Woods Drive may impact traffic if it is during poor weather or if there
          are other cars parked on the opposite side of the street nearby. However, based on
          the information from the applicant, no significant impact to parking is anticipated
          with the proposed use.
       4. The proposed use does not appear to be detrimental to the health, safety or general
          welfare of the persons residing or working in the vicinity, or injurious to the property
          or improvements in the vicinity.


Building Division Review.

       1. No additional comments provided.

Fire Division Review.

       1. 2A-10BC Fire Extinguishers required. The extinguisher needs to be a serviceable type
          meaning metal head and metal neck. Extinguishers need to located in a conspicuous
          location where the will be readily accessible and immediately available for use.
          Placed on every level of the home. If in cabinet or not the extinguisher or cabinet
          needs to be mounted so that the top is more than five(5) feet above the floor.

       2. There shall be single station inter connected smoke detectors in good working
   condition on each level occupied by the clients. Battery operated smoke detectors
   shall be, permitted if the home demonstrates testing, maintenance, and battery
   replacement to insure continued operation of the smoke.

3. Visible Addressing Required. New and existing buildings shall have approved address
   numbers plainly legible and visible from the street fronting the property. These
   numbers shall contrast with their background.
  EXHIBIT B
VICINITY MAP
 EXHIBIT C
AERIAL MAP
  EXHIBIT D
LAND USE MAP
 EXHIBIT E
ZONING MAP
EXHIBIT F
SITE PLAN
                                       EXHIBIT G
                                 APPLICANT STATEMENTS

We are Epic Blooms LLC, a home based flower shop selling flowers online. We plan on using our
basements kitchenette for making flower arrangements which we deliver ourselves. We do not
have any extra vehicles to use for delivery, just our own. We are open for delivery from 9 AM to
6 PM but will be available for calls between 7:30 AM to 8 PM Monday through Sunday. We do
not expect to affect any neighbors with our business.

Epic Blooms LLC, a home-based flower business in Draper, Utah aligns with the city’s general
plan and promotes a positive impact on the local economy and the community. Our residential
property is suitable for flower cultivation and arrangement, and our small-scale operation
ensures no disruption to the surrounding area. We enhance the visual appeal of the
neighborhood, provide safeguards for utilities, transportation access, drainage, parking, lighting,
screening, landscaping, fire protection and pedestrian and vehicular circulation. By minimizing
negative emissions, such as noise, glare, dust, pollutants and odors, we contribute to the health
and safety and welfare of the city, the area and property owners or lessees. Overall, our
business supports environmental stewardship and community cohesion.
EXHIBIT H
PRODCUTS
