                           Development Review Committee
                                1020 East Pioneer Road
                                  Draper, UT 84020
                                       April 19, 2023

To:             Draper City Planning Commission
                Business Date: April 27, 2023

From:           Development Review Committee

Prepared By: Jennifer Jastremsky, AICP, Planning Manager/Zoning Administrator
             Planning Division
             Community Development Department
             801-576-6328, jennifer.jastremsky@draperutah.gov

Re:     Ikea – Text Amendment Request
        Application No.: TEXTMAP-002-2023
        Applicant:        Adam Bortz, representing IKEA Property Inc.
        Project Location: 67 W Ikea Way
        Current Zoning: CSD-DRC (Dahle Retail Center Commercial Special District) Zone
        Acreage:          35.6 Acres (Approximately 155,073 ft2)
        Request:          Request for approval of a Text Amendment in the CSD-DRC zone
                          regarding a modification to Draper City Municipal Code (DCMC)
                          Section 9-18B.



BACKGROUND AND SUMMARY
This application is a request for approval of a Text Amendment for approximately 35.6
acres located on the west side of I-15, at approximately 67 West Ikea Way (Exhibit B & C).
The property is currently zoned CSD-DRC. The applicant is requesting that a Text
Amendment be approved to modify parking standards for retail uses, wall sign standards,
and update the concept plan.

The CSD-DRC zone was created in 2005 with the intent of allowing for large scale retail
furniture stores to be developed on the property. IKEA was developed in 2006, RC Willey
was built in 2013, La-Z-Boy was developed in 2019, and the latest building, Alice Lane was
built in 2021. There are two pad sites within the CSD that could be developed in the future.
IKEA is proposing to build an addition on to their building for storage and warehousing to
facilitate mobile order delivery service. This Text Amendment is the first step in that
expansion process.



Ikea                                                           App. # TEXTMAP-002-2023
Text Amendment Request                       1
ANALYSIS

General Plan and Zoning.
 Table 1              General Plan and Zoning Designations                       Exhibit
 Existing Land Use    Commercial Special District                                Exhibit D
 Current Zoning       CSD-DRC                                                    Exhibit E
 Proposed Use         Retail
 Adjacent Zoning
    East              I-15 Corridor
    West              DC (Destination Commercial)
    North             DC, CSD-SWF (Southwestern Furniture Commercial
                      Special District)
    South             DC

The Commercial Special District land use designation is characterized as follows:




Ikea                                                          App. # TEXTMAP-002-2023
Text Amendment Request                       2
According to Draper City Municipal Code (DCMC) Section 9-8-020 the purpose of the CSD-
DRC zone is to “facilitate commercial development in the West Bangerter area. The area is
characterized by large vacant parcels with freeway frontage and visibility and ample access to
frontage roads….. Given the site's prominence, the city anticipates a substantial retail presence
within the Dahle CSD that forwards the community's economic development goals.”

Text Amendment. The proposed legislative text is included in this report as Exhibit F. The
CSD-DRC breaks up standards based on the size and type of buildings. IKEA is considered a
Principal Building with a floor area of over 180,000 square feet. RC Willey, the next largest
building in the CSD is considered a Major Building, as defined as having at least 140,000
square feet in area. In addition to the below changes to code, the concept site plan in the
CSD exhibits would be updated to reflect the proposed addition (Exhibit G).

 Table 2                  Site Plan Design Requirements
 Standard                 Existing Code             Proposal                   Notes
 Retail Parking           4 stalls per 1,000 sq ft, 2.5 stalls per 1,000       The standard
 Requirements             for buildings over        sq ft, for buildings       parking code
                          180,000 sq ft in size     over 180,000 sq ft in      requires 2.5
                                                    size                       stalls per 1,000
                                                                               sq ft for retail
                                                                               uses.
 Required Parking         Existing Building:          Existing Building:
 Calculations             308,924 sq ft at            308,924 sq ft at
                          4/1,000 sq ft = 1,236       2.5/1,000 sq ft = 773
                          spaces                      spaces
                          Proposed Addition:          Proposed Addition:
                          51,037 sq ft at 4/1,000     51,037 sq ft at
                          sq ft = 204 spaces          2.5/1,000 sq ft = 127
                                                      spaces
                          Total required: 1,440       Total required: 900
                          stalls                      stalls
 Wall Signs               Does not allow for          Allows wall signs to     The proposed
                          Electronic Message          be EMC on the            code would
                          Center (EMC) wall signs     Principle Building       require the sign
                                                                               to comply with
                                                                               the standard
                                                                               code EMC
                                                                               standards.

The applicant has provided a parking study (Exhibit H). The existing building is 308,924
square feet in size. The proposed storage and warehousing expansion is 51,037 square
feet. The existing building requires 1,236 parking stalls. The existing parking on site equals
1,465 stalls. It is anticipated the building addition will reduce the number of stalls by 213



Ikea                                                               App. # TEXTMAP-002-2023
Text Amendment Request                           3
spaces, leaving 1,252 stalls remaining. However, the addition would also require parking, at
the same rate as the rest of the IKEA building, or 204 stalls. This would create a parking
requirement of 1,440 stalls. The applicant is proposing to reduce the amount of required
parking to 2.5 stalls per 1,000 square feet, or 900 stalls with the addition. This number is
equal to the standard parking requirement for retail uses and would allow for the addition
to be built without adding additional stalls. The provided justification from the parking
study is that the addition will not create any new customer areas, but will function as a
warehouse for the new delivery service only.

Criteria For Approval.
A Text and Map Amendment is a matter committed to the legislative discretion of the City
Council and is not controlled by any one standard. However, in making a recommendation
to the City Council, the Planning Commission should consider the following factors in
Section 9-5-060(E) of the DCMC:

        2. Text Amendments:
             a. Whether the proposed amendment is consistent with goals, objectives and policies
                 of the city's general plan;
             b. Whether a proposed amendment furthers the specific purpose statements of the
                 zoning ordinance;
             c. Whether the proposed amendment is appropriate given the context of the request
                 and there is sufficient justification for a modification to the zoning ordinance;
             d. The proposed amendment will not create a conflict with any other section or part
                 of this title or the general plan;
             e. Whether the potential effects of the proposed amendment have been evaluated
                 and determined not to be detrimental to public health, safety, or welfare and
                 represents an overall community benefit; and
             f. The extent to which a proposed text amendment implements best current,
                 professional practices of urban planning, design, and engineering practices.



REVIEWS

Planning Division Review. The Draper City Planning Division has completed their review of
the Text Amendment submission. Comments from this division, if any, can be found in
Exhibit A.

Engineering and Public Works Divisions Review. The Draper City Engineering and Public
Works Divisions have completed their reviews of the Text Amendment submission.
Comments from these divisions, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Building Division Review. The Draper City Building Division has completed their review of the
Text Amendment submission. Comments from this division, if any, can be found in Exhibit



Ikea                                                              App. # TEXTMAP-002-2023
Text Amendment Request                          4
A.

Fire Division Review. The Draper City Fire Marshal has completed his review of the Text
Amendment submission. Comments from this division, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Legal Division Review. The Draper City Attorney has completed his review of the Text
Amendment submission. Comments from this division, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Noticing. Notice has been properly issued in the manner outlined in the City and State
Codes.



STAFF RECOMMENDATION

Staff recommends that the Planning Commission review the request based on the findings
listed below and the criteria for approval, or denial as listed within the staff report. The
Planning Commission should also review the request, hear from the applicant, and receive
public comment prior to making a decision.

The findings for approval as are follows:

        1.      The proposed amendment is consistent with goals, objectives and policies of
                the city's general plan.
        2.      The proposed amendment furthers the specific purpose statements of the
                zoning ordinance.
        3.      The proposed amendment is appropriate given the context of the request
                and there is sufficient justification for a modification to the zoning ordinance.
        4.      The proposed amendment will not create a conflict with any other section or
                part of this title or the general plan.
        5.      The potential effects of the proposed amendment have been evaluated and
                determined not to be detrimental to public health, safety, or welfare and
                represents an overall community benefit.
        6.      The proposed text amendment implements best current, professional
                practices of urban planning, design, and engineering practices.

The findings for denial as are follows:

        1.      The proposed amendment is not consistent with goals, objectives and
                policies of the city's general plan.
        2.      The proposed amendment does not further the specific purpose statements
                of the zoning ordinance.




Ikea                                                              App. # TEXTMAP-002-2023
Text Amendment Request                          5
        3.      The proposed amendment is not appropriate given the context of the
                request and there is not sufficient justification for a modification to the
                zoning ordinance.
        4.      The proposed amendment will create a conflict with another section or part
                of this title or the general plan.
        5.      The potential effects of the proposed amendment have been evaluated and
                determined to be detrimental to public health, safety, or welfare and
                represents an overall community benefit.
        6.      The proposed text amendment does not implements best current,
                professional practices of urban planning, design, and engineering practices.



MODEL MOTIONS

Sample Motion for Approval – I move that we approve the Text Amendment, as requested
by Adam Bortz, representing IKEA Property Inc. for Ikea Text Amendment, application
TEXTMAP-002-2023, based on the findings and subject to the conditions listed in the Staff
Report dated April 19, 2023.

Sample Motion for Modified Approval– I move that we approve the Text Amendment, as
requested by Adam Bortz, representing IKEA Property Inc. for Ikea Text Amendment,
application TEXTMAP-002-2023, based on the findings and subject to the conditions listed
in the Staff Report dated April 19, 2023 and as modified by the findings and conditions
below:

        1. List any additional findings and conditions…

Sample Motion for Denial – I move that we deny the Text Amendment, as requested by
Adam Bortz, representing IKEA Property Inc. for Ikea Text Amendment, application
TEXTMAP-002-2023, based on the findings listed in the Staff Report dated April 19, 2023,
and as modified by the findings below:

        1. List additional findings…




Ikea                                                            App. # TEXTMAP-002-2023
Text Amendment Request                         6
                                EXHIBIT A
                           DEPARTMENT REVIEWS

REVIEWS ARE NOT MEANT TO BE AN ALL INCLUSIVE LIST OF POSSIBLE COMMENTS OR
CONDITIONS.



No comments provided.
  EXHIBIT B
VICINITY MAP
 EXHIBIT C
AERIAL MAP
  EXHIBIT D
LAND USE MAP
 EXHIBIT E
ZONING MAP
                                           EXHIBIT F
                                       LEGISLATIVE DRAFT

Article B. Dahle Retail Center Commercial Special District

9-18B-060: PARKING DESIGN:

A. Required Parking: For uses greater than one hundred eighty thousand (180,000) square feet,
required parking shall be four (4)2.5 stalls for every one thousand (1,000) square feet of
commercial use; for uses equal to or greater than one hundred forty thousand (140,000) square
feet but less than one hundred eighty thousand (180,000) square feet, required parking shall be
2.83 stalls for every one thousand (1,000) square feet of commercial use; for uses equal to or
greater than seventy five thousand (75,000) square feet but less than one hundred forty thousand
(140,000) square feet, required parking shall be 4.5 stalls for every one thousand (1,000) square
feet of commercial use; for uses less than seventy five thousand (75,000) square feet, required
parking shall be five (5) parking stalls for every one thousand (1,000) square feet of commercial
use, except that for sit down restaurants, the ratio shall be modified to ten (10) stalls for every
one thousand (1,000) square feet of commercial use. However, for any anticipated use, or
combination of uses, modifications to the standards may be authorized, if justified by a parking
study and approved by the planning commission, in accordance with section 9-25-090 of this title.
Such study must present data on the proposed uses, square footages and floor plans, hours of
operation, and shared parking areas within the sites.

B. Pedestrian Corridors: Pedestrian corridors shall be identified by a change in color or scoring
of pavement material, or striping with an emphasis on pedestrian safety.



9-18B-080: SIGNAGE:

A. Tower Signs: Signage is very important to the success of the Dahle CSD. Freeway frontage of
more than one thousand three hundred feet (1,300') warrants special signage consideration. For
this reason, the district shall be allowed one project tower sign not to exceed one hundred feet
(100') in height (the "project tower sign"), two (2) tower signs not to exceed forty feet (40') in height
(the "2 tower signs"), and one tower sign not to exceed twelve feet (12') in height (the "small tower
sign"). These tower signs shall have the additional features described hereafter:

1. The project tower sign shall have the following specifications:

     a. It may be up to one hundred feet (100') in height;

     b. It may have up to two thousand (2,000) square feet in area;
    c. It may be multisided with sign panels on each side, but shall be supported by three (3)
    integrally designed supports; and

    d. It shall be located on or about the southeast corner of lot 1.

2. The two (2) tower signs shall have the following specifications:

   a. They each may be up to forty feet (40') in height and be twenty five feet (25') wide;

   b. They each may be double sided with sign panels on each side;

   c. A total of two hundred (200) square feet of sign panel signage may be located on each side
   of each of these two (2) tower signs; and

   d. One of these two (2) tower signs shall be located on or about the northwest corner of lot
   2 and the other of these two (2) tower signs shall be located on or about the northeast corner
   of lot 3 in the Dahle CSD as shown in section 9-18B-110, exhibit A of this article.

3. The small tower sign shall have the following specifications:

   a. It may be up to twelve feet (12') in height and be 7.5 feet wide;

   b. It may be double sided with sign panels on each side;

   c. A total of fifty (50) square feet of sign panel signage may be located on each side of this
   small tower sign; and

   d. It shall be located on or about the northeast corner of lot 5 in the Dahle CSD as shown in
   section 9-18B-110, exhibit A of this article.

The project tower sign, the two (2) tower signs and the small tower sign shall be consistent with
the quality of signs typically found in class A shopping centers and may be multi-tenant. An
example of this kind of tower sign is the tower sign installed within the Draper Peaks CSD. Tower
sign locations shall be generally as shown on the site plan. No digital or reader board signs will
be permitted within the Dahle CSD.

B. Wall Signs: Wall signs on buildings other than the principal building and major building may
be installed by individual businesses based on 1.5 square feet per linear foot of building wall,
which shall be internally illuminated. For the principal building and the major building, this ratio
will be increased to 2.0 square feet per linear foot of building wall in total, which total square
footage can be reallocated among building facades by occupants within the principal building
and the major building. Wall signs on the principal building and the major building may be
illuminated in a manner consistent with the user's corporate determined architectural style,
whether internally or externally illuminated. Wall signs on principal buildings may be electronic
message center signs and shall comply with the standards found in 9-26-090(D)(1) of this title.
C. Directional, Informational Signs: Within lot 1 and lot 2, directional and informational signage
shall not exceed thirteen feet (13') in height and may be located throughout the parking and
circulation areas of such lots. Within lot 1 and lot 2, signage design consistent with the lot user's
corporate determined architectural style shall be permitted. Separate sign permits are not
required for directional and informational signage, and shall be considered approved as noted
and located on the approved site plan for each phase or lot. Directional and informational signage
shall not be counted as monument or building signage.

D. Flags, Banners: Decorative flags and banners are also an important component of the Dahle
CSD. These flags and banners contribute to a festive atmosphere consistent with desirable
commercial projects with freeway visibility in Draper City. Flags and banners may be externally
illuminated by spotlights or similar lights. Poles for flags shall not exceed forty feet (40') in height
and they may vary in circumference and diameter. For the principal building, a total of twenty
four (24) flags and one building mounted banner shall be allowed so long as the design is
consistent with the user's corporate determined architectural style, and each flag size shall not
exceed six feet (6') wide by eighteen feet (18') tall, and the building mounted banner shall not
exceed thirty feet (30') wide by twenty feet (20') high. For the major building, a total of twelve (12)
flags and one building mounted banner shall be allowed so long as the design is consistent with
the user's corporate determined architectural style, and each flag size shall not exceed six feet
(6') wide by eighteen feet (18') tall, and the building mounted banner shall not exceed thirty feet
(30') wide by fifteen feet (15') high. There shall be no limit to the number of national and state
flags flown, poles for which can also be up to forty feet (40') in height and also can vary in
circumference and diameter. With the exception of national and state flags, which may be located
anywhere on a lot, all flags shall be located at an entrance to the Dahle CSD from a public road or
else be located close, within twenty feet (20') or less, to the facade of the building. Flags and
banners shall not be counted as monument or building signage.

E. Compatibility: All signage shall be architecturally generally compatible with the buildings in the
Dahle CSD. Final design details shall be submitted for administrative review and approval with
the site plan submittal as provided in procedures below. No electronic signage or exposed neon
signage will be permitted. (Ord. 1020, 8-7-2012)
9-18B-110: EXHIBITS:

 EXHIBIT A
                                    EXHIBIT G
                                 CONCEPT SITE PLAN

Building envelope includes proposed addition to the east/northeast of the current IKEA
building.
  EXHIBIT H
PARKING STUDY
MEMORANDUM
  To:         Adam Bortz, PMP
              Development Manager, Greenberg Farrow
  From:       Eric Sweat, P.E.
              Kimley-Horn and Associates, Inc.
  Date:       September 22, 2022
  Subject:    Traffic and Parking Analysis for IKEA in Draper, Utah


The purpose of this letter is to provide a traffic and parking study for an expansion project proposed for
the existing IKEA located on Ikea Way in Draper, Utah. This parking study is in accordance with Draper
City Municipal Code 09-25-090, Deviations from Strict Compliance for Parking. The location of the
Draper IKEA is shown in Figure 1.




                                        Figure 1 – Vicinity Map

Expansion Project
The proposed expansion project is anticipated to add building area to the east of the existing main
building for merchandise delivery and staging operations. The expansion does not add retail floor
space. This is in response to the national trend of increasing online purchases of retail goods for home




 kimley-horn.com   111 East Broadway | Suite 600, Salt Lake City, UT 84111                 385 212 3176
                                                                                                     Page 2


delivery. IKEA is proposing to reposition their built environment to accommodate these customer
trends. The new building space will accommodate an electric vehicle delivery fleet of 30-foot box trucks
to be used for delivering goods across the Salt Lake valley and surrounding areas. The building space
will be used for storage and holding of goods prior to being loaded in the delivery vehicles for
distribution.

The existing IKEA building area is 308,924 square feet. The IKEA expansion project is proposed to
include an additional 51,037 square feet of non-retail building space resulting in a total building space
of 359,961 square feet. Other elements with the proposed expansion project include the following:
     • Realignment of eastern internal circulation road on the north frontage of the building
     • Access improvements to the existing access on Pony Express Road
     • Removal of parking spaces east of the existing building

Site Traffic
Traffic generated by the existing IKEA store is anticipated to remain the same or likely decrease with
the proposed project expansion. The expanded area is provided for staging and delivery functions.
Instead of individual customers arriving to and departing from the store to pick up their orders, they
instead will be able to order online and have that merchandise delivered to their desired location.

The box trucks will be able to make multiple deliveries to several locations (around 20 deliveries
anticipated per vehicle) and a single round trip made by a delivery vehicle is anticipated to equal 20
round trips made by individual customers. The amount of delivery drivers and vehicles needed to serve
the store will vary by time of the year but is anticipated to be on the range of seven (7) delivery vehicles
and 14 drivers and employees. The delivery drivers are anticipated to work in shifts in hours that vary
from the store hours of 10:00 am to 9:00 pm. There will be three to four load-out times at the store over
about 12 hours. The most volume will happen in the morning prior to the store opening with one or even
two of those load-out windows happening back-to-back. After that, a smaller load-out would happen in
the late morning for the early afternoon deliveries and a last load-out would be in the late afternoon for
the evening deliveries. Most of the afternoon and evening deliveries will be from the same/next day
variety and have less volume being loaded and delivered. The shift arrivals and departures for the
delivery drivers and staff are anticipated to be outside of the peak hours of adjacent street traffic as well
as the traffic from the deliveries.

Site Parking
There are 1,465 parking spaces provided at the existing IKEA site. Draper City Municipal Code for the
Dahle Retail Center Commercial Special District requires 4 parking spaces per 1,000 square feet of
building area which results in a requirement of 1,236 parking spaces based on the existing building
area of 308,924 square feet (09-18B-060).

With the proposed IKEA expansion 213 parking spaces would be removed, making total parking 1,252
spaces. Based on the new building area of 359,961 square feet, 1,440 parking spaces would be
required on site. The 1,252 proposed parking spaces provided is approximately 87 percent of the
required 1,440 parking spaces (approximately 3.5 parking spaces per 1,000 square feet of building




 kimley-horn.com   111 East Broadway | Suite 600, Salt Lake City, UT 84111                    385 212 3176
                                                                                                 Page 3


area). However, this expansion is not increasing the public retail area of the store. Therefore, it is
anticipated that the existing parking demand will not change with this expansion project.

It is anticipated that the delivery function being added to IKEA will reduce the demand on parking
because many people who would have formerly visited the store can place orders online that will be
delivered to their home. Multiple deliveries (approximately 20) will be made by one delivery vehicle,
reducing the need for customers to arrive and park at the store each day. This will be represented in a
traffic reduction as well as parking demand reduction. The site will still provide 101 percent of the
required parking spaces based on the existing store area (1,252 parking spaces provided versus 1,236
park spaces required). It is anticipated that the parking supply will accommodate the parking demand
for the store after the delivery function expansion.

The ITE Parking Generation Manual, 5th Edition, does not provide parking demand values for a land
use of similar use or size of the IKEA site. The “Furniture Store” land use (land use code 890) only
includes data for buildings up to 80,000 square feet. Extrapolating the ITE data to apply to the IKEA
site size shows a peak demand (on a Saturday, as opposed to the lesser weekday values) of 345
spaces.

Note, expansion traffic and parking data were provided by IKEA as they are in-process of site
expansions at numerous locations.

Conclusion
The IKEA expansion project is proposed to add a delivery function to the existing store. The building
expansion of 51,037 square feet will allow for storage and holding space as well as a necessary delivery
functions to load 30-foot electric vehicle box trucks. These trucks will deliver numerous orders across
the Salt Lake valley and surrounding areas, reducing the number of trips made by customers to and
from the store each day. This delivery function will reduce traffic generated by IKEA and will reduce the
on-site parking demand. No traffic impacts are anticipated with the proposed expansion. It is anticipated
that the 1,252 proposed on-site parking spaces will be adequate for the store parking demand after the
expansion project and delivery function is in place. The 1,252 proposed parking spaces provided is
approximately 87 percent of the required 1,440 parking spaces (approximately 3.5 parking spaces per
1,000 square feet of building area). However, this expansion is not increasing the public retail area of
the store. Therefore, it is anticipated that the existing parking demand will not change with this
expansion project. This memorandum is in support of the proposed parking deviation (Draper City code
09-25-090).

Please contact Eric Sweat at 385-831-2008 or eric.sweat@kimley-horn.com if you have any questions
or comments on the information presented in this memorandum.

Attachments
Attachment A – Proposed Site Plan


                                                                                  09/22/2022




 kimley-horn.com   111 East Broadway | Suite 600, Salt Lake City, UT 84111                385 212 3176
                                                                                   CLIENT   PROJECT NAME                PROJECT ADDRESS                 PROJECT NUMBER   DATE        SHEET TITLE               SHEET NUMBER

www.greenbergfarrow.com   COPYRIGHT NOTICE
                          This drawing is the property of the above referenced
                          Professional and is not to be used for any purpose
                          other than the specific project and site named herein,
                                                                                   IKEA     DRAPER PROPOSED EXPANSION   67 IKEA WAY, DRAPER, UT 84020   20211522.0       3/15/2021   PROPOSED SITE PLAN (v6)   XXX.XX
                          and cannot be reproduced in any manner without the
                          express written permission from the Professional.
                                                                                                                                                                                                               X OF X
