                               Development Review Committee
                                    1020 East Pioneer Road
                                      Draper, UT 84020
                                      January 27, 2023

To:             Draper City Planning Commission
                Business Date: February 9, 2023

From:           Development Review Committee

Prepared By: Todd A. Draper, AICP, Planner III
             Planning Division
             Community Development Department
             801-576-6335, todd.draper@draperutah.gov

Re:     Lyle McAllister – Zoning Map Amendment Request
        Application No.: TEXTMAP-221-2022
        Applicant:        Lyle McAllister
        Project Location: 275 E. 13275 S.
        Current Zoning: RA1 (Residential Agricultural, 40,000 ft² minimum lot size) Zone
        Acreage:          0.92 Acres (Approximately 40,075ft2)
        Request:          Request for approval of a Zoning Map Amendment in the RA1
                          zone regarding changing the zoning designation from RA1 to RA2
                          (Residential Agricultural, 20,000 ft² minimum lot size).



BACKGROUND AND SUMMARY
This application is a request for approval of a Zoning Map Amendment for approximately
0.92 acres located on the north side of 13275 S. Street, at approximately 275 E. 13275 S.
(Exhibit C & D). The property is currently zoned RA1. The applicant is requesting that a
Zoning Map Amendment be approved to change the zoning designation from RA1 to RA2
to allow for a future lot line adjustment between neighboring properties.

The subject property consists of a single parcel containing a single-family home on the
south of the property that was built in approximately 1980 and a large detached shed built
in approximately 1981 in the northwest corner of the subject property. A small 0.08 acre
portion of the original property surrounding the shed was sold to the neighbor in 2006 in
violation of the subdivision ordinance, and this small piece of property is not included in
this proposed zone change (Exhibit B).




Lyle McAllister                                                App. # TEXTMAP
Zoning Map Amendment Request                 1
ANALYSIS
General Plan and Zoning.

 Table 1                 General Plan and Zoning Designations                    Exhibit
 Existing Land Use       Residential Medium Density                              Exhibit E
 Current Zoning          RA1                                                     Exhibit F
 Proposed Use            RA2
 Adjacent Zoning
     East                RA1
     West                RA1
     North               RA2
     South               RA1 RA2

The Residential Low/Medium Density land use designation is characterized as follows:




According to Draper City Municipal Code (DCMC) Section 9-8-020 the purpose of the RA1




Lyle McAllister                                                 App. # TEXTMAP
Zoning Map Amendment Request                 2
and RA2 zones is to “foster low density development with little impact on its surroundings and
municipal services; to generally preserve the character of the city's semirural areas; and to
promote and preserve conditions favorable to large lot family life, including the keeping of
limited numbers of animals and fowl. The predominant use in these zones is intended to be
detached single-family dwellings, protected from encroachment by commercial and industrial
uses.”

The applicant has indicated their desire to adjust lot lines with one of the neighboring
properties (Exhibit G), but in part is unable to do this as the current zoning would not
permit their parcel to be less than 40,000 ft² in size. The proposed change in zoning
designation would allow for a reduction in their minimum lot or parcel size down to as
small as 20,000 ft². Additional issues regarding the violation of both the subdivision and
zoning ordinances in 2006 related to the creation of the 0.08 parcel would need to be
resolved separately, or as part of the intended future lot line adjustment application.

Criteria for Approval.
A Text and Map Amendment is a matter committed to the legislative discretion of the City
Council and is not controlled by any one standard. However, in making a recommendation
to the City Council, the Planning Commission should consider the following factors in
Section 9-5-060(E) of the DCMC:

    1. Map Amendments:
        a. Whether the proposed amendment is consistent with goals, objectives and policies of
            the city's general plan;
        b. Whether the proposed amendment is harmonious with the overall character of
            existing development in the vicinity of the subject property;
        c. Whether the proposed amendment is consistent with the standards of any applicable
            overlay zone;
        d. The extent to which the proposed amendment may adversely affect adjacent property;
            and
        e. The adequacy of facilities and services intended to serve the subject property,
            including, but not limited to, roadways, parks and recreation facilities, police and fire
            protection, schools, stormwater drainage systems, water supplies, and wastewater
            and refuse collection.



REVIEWS
Planning Division Review. The Draper City Planning Division has completed their review of
the Zoning Map Amendment submission. Comments from this division, if any, can be
found in Exhibit A.

Engineering and Public Works Divisions Review. The Draper City Engineering and Public
Works Divisions have completed their reviews of the Zoning Map Amendment submission.



Lyle McAllister                                                       App. # TEXTMAP
Zoning Map Amendment Request                      3
Comments from these divisions, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Fire Division Review. The Draper City Fire Marshal has completed their review of the Zoning
Map Amendment submission. Comments from this division, if any, can be found in Exhibit
A.

GIS Division Review. The Draper City GIS Division has completed their review of the Zoning
Map Amendment submission. Comments from this division, if any, can be found in Exhibit
A.

Noticing. Notice has been properly issued in the manner outlined in the City and State
Codes.



STAFF RECOMMENDATION
Staff recommends that the Planning Commission review the request, receive public
comment, and make a recommendation based on the findings listed below and the criteria
for approval, or denial, as listed within the staff report.

The findings for approval as are follows:

    1.        The proposed amendment is consistent with goals, objectives and policies of the
              city's general plan;
    2.        The proposed amendment is harmonious with the overall character of existing
              development in the vicinity of the subject property;
    3.        The proposed amendment is consistent with the standards of any applicable
              overlay zone;
    4.        The proposed amendment does not adversely affect adjacent property; and
    5.        Adequate facilities and services exist to serve the subject property, including, but
              not limited to, roadways, parks and recreation facilities, police and fire
              protection, schools, stormwater drainage systems, water supplies, and
              wastewater and refuse collection.


The findings for denial as are follows:

         1.      The proposed amendment is not consistent with goals, objectives and
                 policies of the city's general plan;
         2.      The proposed amendment is not harmonious with the overall character of
                 existing development in the vicinity of the subject property;
         3.      The proposed amendment is not consistent with the standards of any



Lyle McAllister                                                      App. # TEXTMAP
Zoning Map Amendment Request                      4
                applicable overlay zone;
        4.      The proposed amendment adversely affects adjacent property; and
        5.      Adequate facilities and services do not exist to serve the subject property,
                including, but not limited to, roadways, parks and recreation facilities, police
                and fire protection, schools, stormwater drainage systems, water supplies,
                and wastewater and refuse collection.



MODEL MOTIONS
Sample Motion for Approval – I move that we forward a positive recommendation to the
City Council for the Zoning Map Amendment, as requested by Lyle McAllister, application
TEXTMAP-221-2022, based on the findings and subject to the conditions listed in the Staff
Report dated January 27, 2023.

Sample Motion for Modified Approval– I move that we forward a positive recommendation
to the City Council for the Zoning Map Amendment, as requested by Lyle McAllister,
application TEXTMAP-221-2022, based on the findings and subject to the conditions listed
in the Staff Report dated January 27, 2023 and as modified by the findings and conditions
below:

        1. List any additional findings and conditions…

Sample Motion for Denial – I move that we forward a negative recommendation to the City
Council for the Zoning Map Amendment, as requested by Lyle McAllister, application
TEXTMAP-221-2022, based on the findings and subject to the conditions listed in the Staff
Report dated January 27, 2023.




Lyle McAllister                                                     App. # TEXTMAP
Zoning Map Amendment Request                    5
                                      EXHIBIT A
                                 DEPARTMENT REVIEWS

REVIEWS ARE NOT MEANT TO BE AN ALL INCLUSIVE LIST OF POSSIBLE COMMENTS OR
CONDITIONS.

Planning Division Review.

   1. No additional comments.

Engineering and Public Works Divisions Review.

   1. We have reviewed the subject zone map amendment application, proposing 0.92
      acres to be zoned from RA1 to RA2 in accordance with the provisions of Section 9-5-
      060(E)(1)(e) of the Draper City Municipal Code (DCMC). We speak primarily to the
      adequacy of facilities and services intended to serve the subject property. In making
      an amendment, the City Council should consider the following factors. Accordingly,
      the following comments are recommended for your consideration:
      a. The adequacy of facilities and services intended to serve the subject property,
            including but not limited to roadways, parks and recreation facilities, police and
            fire protection, schools, storm water drainage systems, water supplies, and
            waste water and refuse collection; Other than noted below, we are not aware of
            any inadequacies of the facilities intended to serve this property.
         i.     The change in zone from residential / agricultural (RA1) to residential /
                agricultural (RA2) represents a minor potential change in traffic by increasing
                the number of peak hour trips and the daily trips from the proposed site. The
                proposed zone, based on the application, would not allow any additional
                units unless adjacent parcels or lots were included in a development. This
                application, essentially, keeps the traffic trips equal with current conditions.
                Any increase in traffic would be limited to 13275 South, a private street
                connecting to 300 East, a major collector street planned for higher traffic
                volumes.
        ii.     Connectivity with the subject parcel to a public right-of-way is on 300 East, a
                major collector street intended to accommodate heavy traffic. The street
                fronting the subject parcel is a private local street, 13275 South. Access
                locations are be required to meet Draper City Standards and are required to
                meet city standards as outlined in our Master Transportation Plan and will be
                evaluated at the time of a site plan or subdivision application.
       iii.     There are no existing storm drainage facilities at the site. Any future site
                drainage will be required to be addressed with any subdivision or site plan
                application, and shall comply with the provisions of the development
                requirements within the Draper City Municipal Code.
         iv.   Sanitary sewer facilities will be provided by South Valley Sewer District. Any
               subdivision or site plan application will require a commitment to serve from
               the Sewer District that facilities are adequate to provide service for the
               proposed uses.
         v.    Drinking water is provided by WaterPro to the subject parcel. Any subdivision
               or site plan application will require a commitment to serve from WaterPro
               that facilities are adequate to provide service for the proposed uses.

Fire Division Review.

   1. No additional comments.



GIS Division Review.

   1. No Additional Comments
    EXHIBIT B
LEGAL DESCRIPTION
  EXHIBIT C
VICINITY MAP
 EXHIBIT D
AERIAL MAP
  EXHIBIT E
LAND USE MAP
 EXHIBIT F
ZONING MAP
       EXHIBIT G
APPLICANT QUESTIONAIRE
