Coversheet
Item Coversheet MEMO To: Planning Commission
From: Todd A. Draper
CC:  Date: February 9, 2023
Re: City Initiated Water Wise Landscaping and Site Amendments Ordinance Request Comments: This application is a request for approval of a Text Amendment to amend landscaping, site development, and subdivision regulations within the Draper City Municipal Code (DCMC) primarily pertaining to the incorporation of water-wise landscaping practices and principals into the ordinance and the published water efficiency standards of the Jordan Valley Water Conservancy District (JVWCD).
This item was heard at the January 26, 2023 meeting of the Draper City Planning Commission, and decision on the recommendation to the Draper City Council was continued to the February 9, 2023 meeting to allow planning staff to make additional edits to the legislative text. Staff is requesting that the item be continued to a date uncertain to facilitate additional coordination with JVWCD and City Administration affecting the proposed legislative text.
Sample Motion for Continuance– I move that we continue the City Initiated Water-Wise Landscaping and Site Amendments Text Amendment, as requested by Draper City, application TEXTMAP-187-2022, to a date uncertain. The findings are as follows: For a positive recommendation:
1. The proposed amendment is consistent with goals, objectives and policies of the city's general plan;
2. The proposed amendment furthers the specific purpose statements of the zoning ordinance;
3. The proposed amendment is appropriate given the context of the request and there is sufficient justification for a modification to the zoning ordinance;
4. The proposed amendment will not create a conflict with any other section or part of this title or the general plan;
5. The potential effects of the proposed amendment have been evaluated and are determined not to be detrimental to public health, safety, or welfare and represent an overall community benefit; and
6. The proposed text amendment implements best current, professional practices of urban planning, design, and engineering.
For a negative recommendation:
1. The proposed amendment is not consistent with goals, objectives and policies of the city's general plan;
2. The proposed amendment does not further the specific purpose statements of the zoning ordinance;
3. The proposed amendment is not appropriate given the context of the request and there is not sufficient justification for a modification to the zoning ordinance;
4. The proposed amendment could create a conflict with another section or part of this title or the general plan;
5. The potential effects of the proposed amendment have been determined to be detrimental to public health, safety, or welfare or do not represent an overall community benefit; and
6. The proposed text amendment is not consistent with current best practices of urban planning, design, and engineering.