                             Development Review Committee
                                  1020 East Pioneer Road
                                    Draper, UT 84020
                                       July 3, 2023


To:              Draper City Planning Commission
                 Business Date: July 13, 2023

From:            Development Review Committee

Prepared By:    Tevai Haunga, Planner I
          Planning Division
          Community Development Department
          801-576-6522, tevai.haunga@draperutah.gov

Re:     Blankenstein Court Fence –Conditional Use Permit Request
        Application No.: USE-049-2023
        Applicant:        Teri Palmer, applicant, representing owners Aaron and
                          Janelle Blankenstein
        Project Location: Approximately 12962 S. Cindy Lane
        Current Zoning: RA2 (Single Family Residential 20,000 ft2 minimum area)
        Zone
        Acreage:          0.41 Acres (Approximately 17859.6 ft2)
        Request:          Request for approval of a Conditional Use Permit in the RA2
                          zone for a 10’ chain link fence enclosing a sport court in the
                          back yard of the property.

BACKGROUND AND SUMMARY
This application is a request for approval of a Conditional Use Permit for
approximately 0.41 acres located on the west side of Cindy Lane, at approximately
12962 S. Cindy Lane (Exhibits B & C). The property is currently zoned RA2. The
applicant is requesting that a Conditional Use Permit be approved to allow a 10’
chain link fence to enclose a sport court in the back yard of the property.

The home is part of the Sommerville in Draper No. 3 subdivision and was built in
1993.


ANALYSIS

General Plan and Zoning.

 Table 1                  General Plan and Zoning Designations               Exhibit
 Existing Land            Residential Low-Medium Density                     Exhibit E



Blankenstein Court Fence                                        App. # USE-049-2023
Conditional Use Permit Request              1
 Use
 Current Zoning           RA2                                             Exhibit D
 Existing Use             Single Family Residential
 Adjacent Zoning
    East                  RA2
    West                  RA2
    North                 RA2
    South                 RA2


The Residential Low-Medium Density land use designation is characterized as
follows:




The property has been assigned the RA2 zoning classification, which allows both
residential and agricultural uses (Exhibit D). According to Draper City Municipal



Blankenstein Court Fence                                     App. # USE-049-2023
Conditional Use Permit Request                 2
Code (DCMC) Section 9-8-020 “The purpose of the RA1 and RA2 zones is to foster
low density development with little impact on its surroundings and municipal
services; to generally preserve the character of the city's semirural areas; and to
promote and preserve conditions favorable to large lot family life, including the
keeping of limited numbers of animals and fowl. The predominant use in these
zones is intended to be detached single-family dwellings, protected from
encroachment by commercial and industrial uses”.

Conditional Use.
The applicant intends to put a 10’ chain linked fence to enclose a sport court in
their backyard. The fence will allow for personal and family recreation on their
basketball / pickle ball court. The black vinyl coated chain link fence will only be
around the court and will sit 4.5’ from the side and rear property lines.

Criteria For Approval.
The criteria for review and potential approval of a conditional use permit request is
found in Section 9-5-080(E) of the DCMC. This section depicts the standard of
review for such requests as:

        E. Approval Standards: The standards of this subsection shall apply to the
           issuance of a conditional use permit:
         1. A conditional use permit may be issued for a use to be located within a
           zone where the particular conditional use is allowed by the use
           regulations of the zone.
         2. Reasonable conditions may be imposed as necessary to substantially
           mitigate reasonably anticipated detrimental effects of the proposed use.
           These conditions may include conditions concerning use, construction,
           character, location, landscaping, screening, parking, hours of operation,
           and other matters relating to the purposes and objectives of this section.
           Such conditions shall be expressly set forth in the motion authorizing the
           conditional use permit.
         3. If the reasonably anticipated detrimental effects of a proposed conditional
           use cannot be substantially mitigated by the imposition of reasonable
           conditions to achieve compliance with applicable standards, the
           conditional use may be denied.
         4. The following factors shall be reviewed and considered in determining
           whether a conditional use permit application should be approved,
           approved with conditions, or denied because reasonable conditions cannot
           be imposed to achieve compliance with applicable standards:
             a. The harmony and compliance of the proposed use with the objectives
                and requirements of the city's general plan and this title;
             b. The suitability of the specific property for the proposed use;
             c. Whether the proposed use or facility may be injurious to potential or
                existing development in the vicinity;
             d. The economic impact of the proposed facility or use on the
                surrounding area;
             e. The aesthetic impact of the proposed facility or use on the
                surrounding area;



Blankenstein Court Fence                                        App. # USE-049-2023
Conditional Use Permit Request             3
            f. The safeguards proposed or provided to ensure adequate utilities,
               transportation access, drainage, parking, loading space, lighting,
               screening, landscaping, open space, fire protection, and pedestrian
               and vehicular circulation;
            g. The safeguards provided or proposed to prevent noxious or offensive
               emissions such as noise, glare, dust, pollutants and odor from the
               proposed facility or use; and
            h. The impact of the proposed facility or use on the health, safety, and
               welfare of the city, the area, and persons owning or leasing property in
               the area.
         5. The planning commission may request additional information as may be
           reasonably needed to determine whether the requirements of this
           subsection E can be met.


REVIEWS

Planning Division Review. The Draper City Planning Division has completed their
review of the Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit submission. Comments from
this division, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Engineering and Public Works Divisions Review. The Draper City Engineering and
Public Works Divisions have completed their reviews of the Home Occupation
Conditional Use submission. Comments from these divisions, if any, can be found in
Exhibit A.

Building Division Review. The Draper City Building Division has completed their
review of the Home Occupation Conditional Use submission. Comments from this
division, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Fire Division Review. The Draper City Fire Marshal has completed his review of the
Home Occupation Conditional Use submission. Comments from this division, if any,
can be found in Exhibit A.

Legal Division Review. The Draper City Attorney has completed his review of the
Home Occupation Conditional Use submission. Comments from this division, if any,
can be found in Exhibit A.

Noticing. Notice has been properly issued in the manner outlined in the City and
State Codes.


STAFF RECOMMENDATION
Staff recommends that the Planning Commission approve the request based on the
findings listed below and the criteria for approval, as listed within the staff report.
The Planning Commission should also review the request, hear from the applicant,
and receive public comment prior to making a decision.




Blankenstein Court Fence                                       App. # USE-049-2023
Conditional Use Permit Request             4
If the Planning Commission decides to approve the request, staff recommends they
include the following conditions of approval:

        1.       That all requirements of the Draper City Engineering, Building and
                 Planning Divisions are satisfied throughout the development of the
                 fence, including permitting.
        2.       Unless there is substantial action under a conditional use permit within
                 one year from the date of its issuance, said permit shall expire and
                 shall have no further force or effect. A written request may be
                 submitted to the Community Development Department prior to
                 expiration of the Conditional Use Permit for an extension of up to six
                 (6) month, subject to approval of the Planning Commission, provided
                 substantial action is shown toward establishing the conditional use and
                 the requirements for extension under Section 9-5-030 of this chapter
                 are met.

The findings for approval as are follows:
       1.    Reasonable mitigation measures can be placed on the conditional use
             to alleviate anticipated detrimental effects.

The findings for denial as are follows:

        1.       Reasonable mitigation measures cannot be placed on the conditional
                 use to alleviate anticipated detrimental effects.


MODEL MOTIONS
Sample Motion for Approval – I move that we approve the Conditional Use Permit,
as requested by Teri Palmer, application USE-049-2023, based on the findings and
subject to the conditions listed in the staff report dated July 3, 2023.

Sample Motion for Modified Approval – I move that we approve the Conditional Use
Permit as requested by Teri Palmer, application USE-049-2023, based on the
findings and subject to the conditions listed in the staff report dated July 3, 2023,
and as modified by the findings and conditions below:

        1. List any additional findings and general conditions…

Sample Motion for Denial - I move that we deny the Conditional Use Permit, as
requested by Teri Palmer, application USE-049-2023, based on the findings listed in
the staff report dated July 3, 2023, and as modified by the findings below.

        1. List additional findings…




Blankenstein Court Fence                                         App. # USE-049-2023
Conditional Use Permit Request                5
                                 EXHIBIT A
                            DEPARTMENT REVIEWS

REVIEWS ARE NOT MEANT TO BE AN ALL INCLUSIVE LIST OF POSSIBLE
COMMENTS OR CONDITIONS.


Planning Division Review.

   1. No additional comments provided.

Engineering and Public Works Divisions Review.

   1. No additional comments provided.

Building Division Review.

   1. No additional comments provided.

Fire Division Review.

   1. No additional comments provided.
  EXHIBIT B
VICINITY MAP
 EXHIBIT C
AERIAL MAP
 EXHIBIT D
ZONING MAP
  EXHIBIT E
LAND USE MAP
EXHIBIT F
SITE PLAN
     EXHIBIT G
APPLICANT STATEMENT
