MINUTES OF THE DRAPER CITY PLANNING COMMISSION MEETING HELD ON
THURSDAY, OCTOBER 26, 2023 IN THE DRAPER CITY COUNCIL CHAMBERS

PARTICIPATING: Andrew Adams, Chair
               Lisa Fowler, Vice-Chair
               Commission Member Gary Ogden
               Commission Member Kendra Shirey

EXCUSED:              Commission Member Susan Nixon
                      Commission member Mary Squire
                      Alternate Commission Member Shivam Shah
                      Alternate Commission Member Laura Fidler

STAFF PRESENT: Jennifer Jastremsky, Community Development Director
               Todd Draper, Planning Manager
               Maryann Pickering, Planner III
               Connor Mangelson, Planning Coordinator
               Mike Barker, City Attorney
               Spencer DuShane, City Attorney
               Brien Maxfield, Senior Engineer Manager
               Amie Salazar, Office Manager

6:30 PM Business Meeting

Chair Andrew Adams called the Draper City Planning Commission Meeting to order. He noted that
several Commissioners were excused from the meeting. That meant that any votes taken during the
meeting would need to have a unanimous decision or the item would need to be continued.

1.     Items for Commission Consideration.

       A.      Public Hearing: Smythe I-ADU Deviation Request. (Administrative Action).
               On the request of Austin Allred Representing Jason Smythe, a Deviation Request to
               Allow for an Internal Accessory Dwelling Unit (“I-ADU”) on Approximately 1.0
               Acres located at approximately 1602 East 12500 South also known as Application
               2023-4579-VAR.       Staff Contact:      Connor Mangelson, (801) 576-6551,
               connor.mangelson@draperutah.gov.

Planning Coordinator, Connor Mangelson, presented the Staff Report and stated that the application
is a request for approval of an ADU deviation for an approximately one acre property located on the
south side of 12500 South at approximately 1602 East 12500 South. Mr. Mangelson shared an aerial
map of the property. The land use is Residential Low/Medium Density and the property is in the RA2
Zone. The Site Plan was shared and the proposed rebuild of the home was highlighted. Mr.
Mangelson identified the location of the attached garage with the proposed Internal Accessory
Dwelling Unit (“I-ADU”). There is also an existing detached garage near the back of the property.
The front elevation of the new build was reviewed as well as the elevation of the attached garage with
the I-ADU. The Floor Plan of the I-ADU was also shared. There are some stairs toward the top, a
living room, a bedroom, a walk-in closet, a kitchen, and a bathroom. An image of the old home and
noticing photos of the property were shared.
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
October 26, 2023
Page 2

Chair Adams opened the public hearing.

Susan Lee gave her address and indicated she was a neighbor. She asked if the I-ADU would be built
on top of the existing barn that was there. She also asked about the height of the building.

There were no further public comments. The public hearing was closed.

The applicant, Austin Allred, addressed the question posed during the public hearing. He explained
that the existing home had been demolished and would be rebuilt in roughly the same location. Mr.
Allred indicated that an existing detached barn in the back that will remain that will be near Ms. Lee’s
Property. Mr. Allred briefly reviewed the Site Plan and explained that the house will be built toward
the front street and that the garage with the I-ADU will be accessed around the back. The unit will
be above that and be attached to the house. It would be built as part of the home.

Commissioner Fowler referenced the Criteria for Approval on Page 3 of the Staff Report. She asked
if the lot is large enough, which was confirmed. The property met all of the criteria listed.

Motion: Commissioner Fowler moved to APPROVE the Deviation, as requested by Austin
Allred, for the Smythe I-ADU, application 2023-4579-VAR, based on the findings and subject
to the conditions listed in the Staff Report dated October 13, 2023.

Second: Commissioner Ogden.

Vote: A roll call was taken with the Commissioners voting 3-to-0 in favor of the motion.
Commissioners Fowler, Ogden, and Shirey voted “Aye”. The motion passed unanimously.

       B.      Public Hearing: Vista 600 West Master Area Plan (“MAP”) Amendment and
               Zoning Text Amendment Request. (Legislative Action).
               On the request of Adam Lankford, Representing WRG for a Text/Master Area Plan
               Amendment, known as the Vista 600 West MAP for the Purpose of Modifying DCMC
               Section 9-14 to Change the Concept Plan and Update the Design Guidelines based on
               the Updated Concept Plan for Approximately 15.24 Acres. The property is located at
               approximately 496 West 13490 South. Known as Application TEXTMAP-071-2023.
               Staff    Contact:        Maryann      Pickering    at   (801)    576-6391       or
               maryann.pickering@draperutah.gov.

Planner III, Maryann Pickering, presented the Staff Report and explained that the property is located
on the west side of the City at approximately 496 West 13490 South. The application involves a
request for approval of a Master Area Plan (“MAP”) and text amendment for approximately 15.24
acres of property that is currently zoned TSD. The applicant was requesting that MAP and text
amendments be approved to eliminate the office use from the plan and expand the retail and
residential areas on approximately 8.70 acres in the southern portion of the development.
Ms. Pickering shared a Zoning Map and pointed out the location of the property as well as the TSD
Zone.
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
October 26, 2023
Page 3

The original MAP was approved in 2018 for 250 residential units, 125,000 square feet of office space,
and 10,000 square feet of retail space. An application was submitted in 2021 to remove the office
space and replace it with all residential. A request was also made to remove the hotel from the design
standards. The Planning Commission forwarded a positive recommendation to the City Council but
one month after the meeting, the application was put on hold by the applicant. No further action was
taken. The application currently before the Planning Commission was to eliminate the allowed office
and replace it with hotel, retail, and residential. The hotel will be on the southern border of the
property. The proposed retail will include drive-thrus and a convenience store. Up to 75 residential
units will be added. In addition to the MAP amendment was an amendment to the design guidelines
for some of the newly proposed uses, such as the convenience store. Some minor changes and
clarifications had been made to those design guidelines at the request of Staff.

The current Land Use Map in the Zoning Code was shared. Ms. Pickering described what was under
construction and where the retail and office are proposed. In the proposed map, some residential units
would be added as well as the hotel and three retail pads. Generally, there was a request to remove
the office, which was approximately 50% of the site. That would increase the proportion of the site
used for residential from approximately 39% to 55%, increase the retail coverage from approximately
11% to 30%, and add the hotel use to approximately 15% of the overall site. Concept elevations were
shared with the Commission. Staff received no comments from the public.

Ms. Pickering distributed an exhibit to the Commissioners. The one included in the Staff Report was
incorrect. The handout would replace Page 23 of the Staff Report. By the secondary entry, some
parking was removed as well as an access aisle, which was at the request of the Senior Engineer
Manager so there was clear access to the site. The applicant agreed to that.

Commissioner Fowler noted that at the end of the report, there was a list from the applicant of all the
things that would be done. Ms. Pickering explained that those were the updated design standards.
Commissioner Fowler was not certain what had been changed. Ms. Pickering stated that some design
standards are ambiguous, so some clarity had been added. Some standards for the convenience store
and the gas station were added because they were not there previously. Commissioner Fowler asked
to further review the Vicinity Map. Ms. Pickering identified where the retail pad would be located as
well as the hotel and additional residential. Commissioner Fowler questioned what is happening on
the side of 600 West. Ms. Pickering identified townhomes and a proposed area that will have an office
building, some retail, and residential. She noted that the application was not finalized. Commissioner
Ogden asked to again review the map that showed the finished percentages of retail.

The applicant, Adam Lankford, from Wasatch Residential Group, shared information about the
application. Mr. Lankford explained that this was a joint project with other developers. When the
original MAP was approved in 2018, it was approved for 250 residential units. There is no request
to have more than the originally approved 250 units. Phase I, which is north of the access road,
consists of only 174 units. Up to 75 units will be added to the project. The intention was to utilize
what was originally approved in 2018. He identified the additional residential area on the map. The
property is located on the edge of the TSD Zone and abuts Bangerter Highway. One of the goals of
the zone was to create an economically viable development plan. To do that, he felt that some drive-
thru options needed to be offered since retail was missing in the area. The hotel project they have
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
October 26, 2023
Page 4

financed and is already to start. He reviewed the applicants Phasing Plan. The proposal was to build
the hotel first, then the residential, and then the retail except for the gas station. As soon as there was
a tenant for the gas station, that work would be done. The applicant desires to make the project a
success and he believes in what have been proposed.

Commissioner Fowler thought it made sense to have that kind of retail close to Bangerter Highway.
The Zoning Map was reviewed. She asked if Wasatch Residential Group also owns the property
across the street. Mr. Lankford clarified that they own some property to the west. A commercial
group owns the middle piece. The residential to the north is currently under construction. There are
three buildings there as well as a clubhouse and all of the amenities.

Chair Adams opened the public hearing. There were no public comments. The public hearing was
closed.

Motion: Commissioner Ogden moved to forward a POSITIVE RECOMMENDATION to the
City Council for the MAP Amendment, as requested by Adam Lankford representing WRG
for Vista 600 West Master Area Plan Amendment, Application TEXTMAP-071-2023, based on
the following:

Findings:

       1.      The proposal complies with all of the required elements under DCMC Section 9-
               14-060.

       2.      The Master Circulation Plan adequately serves the MAP area and areas
               surrounding the project.

       3.      The MAP provides for a community character substantially consistent with the
               purposes of the TSD, including the provision for at least twenty-five percent
               (25%) commercial, retail, or office uses.

       4.      The development standards and design guidelines are high-quality transit-
               oriented design standards, including the use of high-quality building materials.

Second: Commissioner Fowler.

Vote: A roll call was taken with the Commissioners voting 3-to-0 in favor of the motion.
Commissioners Fowler, Ogden, and Shirey voted “Aye”. The motion passed unanimously.

Motion: Commissioner Shirey moved to forward a POSITIVE RECOMMENDATION to the
City Council for the Text Amendment, as requested by Adam Lankford representing WRG for
Vista 600 West Master Area Plan Amendment, application TEXTMAP-071-2023, based on the
following:
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
October 26, 2023
Page 5

Findings:

       1.      The proposed amendment is consistent with the goals, objectives, and policies of
               the City’s General Plan.

       2.      The proposed amendment furthers the specific purpose statements of the zoning
               ordinance.

       3.      The proposed amendment is appropriate given the context of the request and
               there is sufficient justification for a modification to the zoning ordinance.

       4.      The proposed amendment will not create a conflict with any other section or part
               of this title or the General Plan.

       5.      The potential effects of the proposed amendment have been evaluated and
               determined not to be detrimental to the public health, safety, or welfare and
               represents an overall community benefit.

       6.      The proposed text amendment implements best current, professional practices of
               urban planning, design, and engineering practices.

Second: Commissioner Ogden.

Vote: A roll call was taken with the Commissioners voting 3-to-0 in favor of the motion.
Commissioners Fowler, Ogden, and Shirey voted “Aye”. The motion passed unanimously.

       C.      Public Hearing: Ringdahl Fence Conditional Use Permit (Administrative
               Action).
               On the request of Mindi Ringdahl, a Conditional Use Permit Regarding the
               Construction of a Fence over Six Feet (6’) in Height in the Rear and Front Yards on
               an approximately 0.15-acre Property located at approximately 297 East Summer Leaf
               Drive. Known as Application 23-4562-USE. Staff Contact: Todd A. Draper, (801)
               576-6335 or todd.draper@draperutah.gov.

Planning Manager, Todd Draper, presented the Staff Report and stated that the application is a request
for a Conditional Use Permit for approximately 0.15 acres located north of Summer Leaf Drive and
east of Red Leaf Drive at approximately 297 East Summer Leaf Drive. The property is currently
zoned R3. The applicant was requesting that a Conditional Use Permit be approved to allow for the
installation of a nine-foot-tall screen fence near the northern property line. Mr. Draper shared the
Vicinity Map as well as an aerial map of the property. He reviewed the Site Plan with those present
and noted that there is an existing six-foot fence around the rear of the property and a portion of the
front yard. The elevation was shared and some photographs of the subject property were reviewed.

Commissioner Fowler asked to further review the Vicinity Map. Mr. Draper identified the subject
property on a map displayed. Commissioner Ogden noted that the front of the fence on the right-
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
October 26, 2023
Page 6

hand side of the house slopes. He wondered if the backyard sloped like that as well. Mr. Draper
confirmed that the grade does slope on the site. There was discussion about elevations.

The applicant, Thomas Gamache, confirmed that there is a bit of a slope. The privacy screen
requested is present in many other backyards in the area. He believed that there was no public utility
encroachment or lane drainage easement on the rear of the lot where the fence would be located.
Depending on the weather conditions, the builder believed the work would take two days or so. All
construction will take place behind the fence and on his property. Commissioner Fowler asked if he
had spoken with his neighbor. Mr. Gamache stated that there were no issues. Commissioner Ogden
asked what the distance between the fence and the back of the privacy screen would be. Mr. Gamache
believed it would be one foot at the most. He wanted more privacy in the yard.

Chair Adams opened the public hearing. There were no public comments. The public hearing was
closed.

Chair Adams believed the Planning Commission would see more applications like this in the future.
As trees become more mature and need to be removed, residents will likely want to add in privacy
screening to maintain the feeling of privacy there was before the removal of the mature tree.

Motion: Commissioner Shirey moved to APPROVE the Conditional Use Permit, as requested
by Mindi Ringdahl and Thomas Gamache, for the Ringdahl Fence, Application 23-4562-USE,
subject to the following:

Finding:

       1.      Reasonable mitigation measures can be placed on the conditional use to alleviate
               anticipated detrimental effects.

Conditions:

       1.      That all requirements of the Draper City Engineering, Public Works, Building,
               Planning, and Fire Divisions are satisfied throughout the development of the site
               and the construction of all structures on the site, including permitting.

       2.      That the applicant obtain an Encroachment Permit (PUDEEA) from Draper City
               Engineering.

       3.      That the applicant obtain the requested Building Permit for the construction of
               the fence.

Second: Commissioner Fowler.

Vote: A roll call was taken with the Commissioners voting 3-to-0 in favor of the motion.
Commissioners Fowler, Ogden, and Shirey voted “Aye”. The motion passed unanimously.
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
October 26, 2023
Page 7

       D.      Public Hearing: Draper Medical Condominiums Amended Subdivision Plat.
               (Administrative Action).
               On the request of Curtis J. Brown, Representing Anderson and Karrenberg, PC and
               12450 South Street Holdings, LC, an Amended Subdivision Request Regarding
               Subdividing an Existing Office Building into Commercial Condominiums on an
               approximately 0.81-acre Property located at approximately 114 East 12450 South.
               Known as Application 23-0238. Staff Contact: Todd A. Draper, (801) 576-6335 or
               todd.draper@draperutah.gov.

Mr. Draper presented the Staff Report and explained that the application is for an Amended
Subdivision Plat for approximately 0.81 acres located on the south side of 12450 South at
approximately 114 East 12450 South. The property is currently zoned CC. The applicant is
requesting approval of an Amended Subdivision Plat to allow for the existing office building to be
subdivided into commercial condominiums through approval and recordation of the proposed Draper
Medical Condominiums Plat. Mr. Draper shared an aerial map of the subject property and explained
that the office building was built in 2003 on Lot 5B of the Stark Office Village Subdivision.

Mr. Draper shared the Subdivision Plat. He explained that there will be a division into multiple
condominium units. Photographs of the site were shared and he identified the building with the access
drive from 12450 South. There are access easements for both properties on the existing plat that
would remain. Parking is shared by both buildings and there is a Condition of Approval that it be
maintained and a note added to the Subdivision Plat. Additional photos were shared of the area. He
explained that the intention was to divide the space in the building and sell it off separately so
everyone could individually own their piece of the building rather than there being one owner of the
building with multiple tenants. There would not be a change to the actual use of the building.

The applicant, Curtis Brown, introduced himself and confirmed that the actual use of the building
will not change. The idea was simply to have individual parcels instead.

Chair Adams opened the public hearing. There were no public comments. The public hearing was
closed.

Motion: Commissioner Fowler moved to APPROVE the Amended Subdivision Plat
Amendment, as requested by Curtis J. Brown, representing Anderson and Karrenberg PC and
12450 South State Holdings LC, for the Draper Medical Condominiums Plat, Application 23-
0238, subject to the following:

Conditions:

       1.      That all requirements of the Draper City Engineering, Public Works, Building,
               Planning, GIS, and Fire Divisions are satisfied throughout the development of the
               site, including but not limited to those listed in Exhibit A of the Staff Report.

       2.      That the applicant submit a revised plat showing the required delineation of the
               vertical space of the condominiums to planning staff for review prior to printing
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
October 26, 2023
Page 8

              of the final Mylar Plat and signature of the Chair of the Planning Commission on
              the plat.

       3.     That the revised condominium plat note the shared parking requirements of the
              Site Plan approval with Lot 5A of the Stark Office Village Subdivision.

Findings:

       1.     Good cause exists for the subdivision plat amendment, and no Public Street,
              right-of-way, or easement has been vacated or amended.

Second: Commissioner Shirey.

Vote: A roll call was taken with the Commissioners voting 3-to-0 in favor of the motion.
Commissioners Fowler, Ogden, and Shirey voted “Aye”. The motion passed unanimously.

       E.     Public Hearing: Ambyr T. Lindsay, Inc. Home Occupation Conditional Use
              Permit. (Administrative Action).
              On the request of Ambyr Lindsay, Representing Ambyr T. Lindsay, Inc. Ambyr
              Lindsay, Terry Young, and Laurie Young, a Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit
              Request on approximately 0.36-Acres, located at 12972 South Brook Haven Cove.
              Known as Application HOCC-6837-2023. Staff Contact: Todd A. Draper, (801) 576-
              6335 or todd.draper@draperutah.gov. (This item has been continued to the
              November 9, 2023, Planning Commission Meeting).

Chair Adams reported that the item had been continued to the meeting on November 9, 2023.

       A.     Adjournment.

Motion: Commissioner Fowler moved to ADJOURN.

Vote: The motion passed with the unanimous consent of the Commission.

The meeting adjourned at 7:40 P.M.
