Coversheet
Item Coversheet MEMO To: City Council Meeting
From: Todd A. Draper
CC:  Date: June 20, 2023
Re: City Initiated Water Wise Landscaping and Site Amendments Text Amendment Request Comments: This application is a request for approval of a Text Amendment to amend landscaping, site development, and subdivision regulations within the Draper City Municipal Code (DCMC) primarily pertaining to the incorporation of water-wise landscaping practices and principals into the ordinance and the published water efficiency standards of the Jordan Valley Water Conservancy District (JVWCD).
This item was initially reviewed at the January 26, 2023 Planning Commission meeting and continued to the February 9, 2023 meeting at which time staff requested an additional continuance to a date uncertain to address additional issues in the proposed text that had arisen. The revised text was then brought back before the Planning Commission at their June 8, 2023 meeting at which time they unanimous voted to send a recommendation to the City Council that the text amendment as proposed and presented be approved.
A copy of the January 19, 2023 staff report and June 1, 2023 memorandum to the Planning Commission are attached. Both documents include earlier versions of the proposed text changes and are provided as supplemental background information only.  The findings are as follows: For Approval:
1. The proposed amendments are consistent with goals, objectives and policies of the city's general plan.
2. The proposed amendments further the specific purpose statements of the Development Codes.
3. The proposed amendments are appropriate given the context of the request and there is sufficient justification for a modification to the Development Codes.
4. The potential effects of the proposed amendments have been evaluated and determined not to be detrimental to public health, safety, or welfare and represents an overall community benefit.
5. The proposed amendments implement best current, professional practices of urban planning, design, and engineering practices.
For Denial:
1. The proposed amendment are not consistent with goals, objectives and policies of the city's general plan;
2. The proposed amendments do not further the specific purpose statements of the Development Codes;
3. The proposed amendments are not appropriate given the context of the request and there is not sufficient justification for a modification to the Development Codes;
4. The potential effects of the proposed amendments have been determined to be detrimental to public health, safety, or welfare or do not represent an overall community benefit; and
5. The proposed amendments are not consistent with current best practices of urban planning, design, and engineering. ATTACHMENTS: Description Upload Date Type Ordinance #1583 6/15/2023 Cover Memo P.C. Staff Report 6/15/2023 Cover Memo Update Memo - Water-Wise Landscaping and Site Amendments 6/15/2023 Cover Memo