MINUTES OF THE DRAPER CITY COUNCIL MEETING HELD ON TUESDAY, JANUARY 10,
2023, IN THE DRAPER CITY COUNCIL CHAMBERS, 1020 EAST PIONEER ROAD, DRAPER,
UTAH

PRESENT:            Mayor Troy K. Walker, and Councilmembers Mike Green, Tasha
                    Lowery, Fred Lowry, Cal Roberts, and Marsha Vawdrey

PLANNING COMMISSION:
              Andrew Adams, Tab Bingham, Craig Hawker, Susan Nixon, Mary
              Squire, and DeLaina Tonks

STAFF PRESENT:      David Dobbins, City Manager; Fred Aegerter, Community
                    Development Director; Mike Barker, City Attorney; Kellie
                    Challburg, Chief of Staff; Scott Cooley, City Engineer; Lieutenant
                    Dave Harris; Bret Millburn, Assistant City Manager; Malena
                    Murray, Human Resources Director; Rhett Ogden, Recreation
                    Director; Laura Oscarson, City Recorder; Linda Peterson,
                    Communications Director; Clint Smith, Fire Chief; Jake Sorensen,
                    IT; and Jared Zacharias, Assistant Finance Director
_____________________________________________________________
Study Session

1.0   Legislative Update

1.1   Representative Jeff Stenquist spoke of his current assignments with the State
      Legislature and the upcoming Legislative Session and answered questions
      from the Council and Planning Commission about land use, property tax
      changes, gravel pits, the future of planning commissions, and targeted bills.

1.2   Referring to the current housing issue, Councilmembers asked that the
      Legislature recognize the 3,000 housing units entitled but not yet built in
      Draper City, and emphasized the City could not force developers to build.

2.0   Work Session: Draper City Planning Commission and City Council
      The City Council and Planning Commission discussed public hearings;
      affordable housing and parking; recommendations made by the Planning
      Commission and how those recommendations helped Councilmembers form
      decisions; and General Plan updates.




Draper City Council DRAFT Minutes – January 10, 2023
2.1   Commissioner Squire suggested public hearings should not be held for
      applications that met City Code and had to be approved, since holding a public
      hearing gave an impression that an application could be voted down. A
      member of staff agreed and suggested some applications could be handled
      administratively by staff. An appeal process was discussed. A comment was
      made that public hearings allowed residents to voice opinions, and a lack of
      public hearings may be viewed as a lack of transparency.

Business Session

1.0   Call to Order: Mayor Troy K. Walker

2.0   Thought/Prayer and Pledge of Allegiance

2.1   A prayer was offered by Network Administrator Jake Sorensen. Lieutenant
      Dave Harris led the Pledge of Allegiance.

3.0   Public Comments

3.1   Sarah Brinkerhoff, Draper Library Manager, encouraged the Council and
      Planning Commission to look into State Statutes regarding truth-in-taxation.

4.0   Consent Items
      a. Approval of December 6, 2022, and December 13, 2022, City Council
         Meeting Minutes
      b. Approval of Resolution #23-01, a Resolution of the Draper City Council
         amending Section 3040 of the Personnel Policies and Procedures Manual
         regarding Release of Employee Information
      c. Approval of Resolution #23-02, a Resolution of the Draper City Council
         electing Cal Roberts to serve as the Mayor Pro Tempore for the year 2023
      d. Approval of Resolution #23-03, a Resolution appointing Annie Bommer and
         Bryn Johnson as members of the Draper City Historic Preservation
         Commission
      e. Approval of Resolution #23-04, a Resolution appointing Richard Ferguson
         as Police Chief for the City of Draper
      f. Approval of Resolution #23-05, a Resolution of the Draper City Council
         disposing of personal property seized as evidence or held by the Police
         Department as lost or mislaid property in accordance with Utah Code
         Sections 24-3-103 and 77-24a respectively

                                                                        Page 2 of 7
      g. Approval of Resolution #23-06, a Resolution by the Draper City Council
         updating the approved City Council Assignment List for 2023
      h. Approval of Ordinance #1575, an Ordinance of the Draper City Council to
         correct duplicate ordinance numbers for Ordinance #1020 and Ordinance
         #1043

4.1   Councilmember Vawdrey moved to approve                the    Consent   Items.
      Councilmember T. Lowery seconded the motion.

4.2   A roll call vote was taken. The motion passed unanimously.

                                     Yes        No    Absent
       Councilmember Green           X
       Councilmember T. Lowery       X
       Councilmember F. Lowry        X
       Councilmember Roberts         X
       Councilmember Vawdrey         X

4.3   Mayor Walker introduced the new Draper Police Chief, Richard Ferguson. Chief
      Ferguson said he was excited to serve with the dedicated members of the
      Police Department. The Council welcomed Chief Ferguson.

5.0   Public Hearing: Ordinance #1574, an Ordinance of Draper City amending the
      Official Zoning Map of Draper City for approximately 1.61 acres of property
      from RA1 (Residential Agricultural, 40,000 square foot minimum) to RA2
      (Residential Agricultural, 20,000 square foot minimum) located at
      approximately 1094 E. 13800 South, otherwise known at the Southfork Lot 2
      Zoning Map Amendment

5.1   The applicant withdrew the application.

6.0   Public Hearing: Ordinances #1570 and #1571, Ordinances amending the
      official Zoning Map from RA1 (Residential Agricultural, 40,000 Square Foot Lot
      Minimum) Zone to R4 (Single Family Residential, 10,000 Square Foot Lot
      Minimum) for approximately 0.689 acres; amending the official Zoning Map
      from RA1 (Residential Agricultural, 40,000 Square Foot Lot Minimum) and RA2
      (Residential Agricultural, 20,000 Square Foot Lot Minimum) zones to CN
      (Neighborhood Commercial) Zone for approximately 0.984 acres; amending
      the official Land Use Map for approximately 0.984 acres of property from

                                                                        Page 3 of 7
      Residential Medium Density to Neighborhood Commercial, located at
      approximately 12430 South 700 East, and approving a Development
      Agreement, otherwise known as the Royale Estate & Cottages Zoning Map
      Amendment, Land Use Map Amendment, and Development Agreement

6.1   Planning Manager Jennifer Jastremsky explained the rezoning requests and
      presented a proposed Master Plan for the development. The applicant
      proposed to develop an assisted living facility in a residential setting (29 units
      for residents and one unit for visiting family members), and three single-family
      homes. She said the Planning Commission reviewed the application and
      forwarded a positive recommendation.

6.2   Bruce Bastian, applicant, said he was excited about the assisted living project,
      and described plans for both common space and resident rooms. He spoke of
      neighborhood meetings held on June 29, 2022, and November 29, 2022, and
      shared feedback. Mr. Bastian emphasized that, although assisted living was
      considered commercial in terms of zoning, the planned project would have the
      look and feel of a residential property. The three single-family homes would
      be independently owned, and not associated with the assisted living facility.

6.3   The Council discussed the proposed Development Agreement with the
      applicant. Concerns regarding the possible impact on the existing
      neighborhood were expressed.

6.4   Mayor Walker opened a public hearing.

6.5   Mark Buehner, Draper resident, said he lived right next to the proposed
      project. He said he had concerns about loss of privacy, but wanted to be a good
      neighbor. He asked about the distance between his home and the proposed
      mansion and said it would be helpful to have some of the details worked out.

6.6   Michelle Ketcher, Draper resident, and owner of Beehive Homes of Draper said
      the proposed facility would be considered a large assisted living facility. She
      said the units at Beehive Homes felt residential and suggested that fireplaces
      and small balconies were not necessarily what seniors needed. Ms. Ketcher
      said she received phone calls every day from people looking for affordable
      assisted living, and expressed the opinion that there was not any in the area.
      She said she believed the reality of assisted living was different than what had
      been presented.

                                                                            Page 4 of 7
6.7    John Wilkens, Draper resident, said he lived directly north of the proposed
       project. He said the applicant’s team had been very forthcoming and
       communicative. Mr. Wilkens said he appreciated the proposed concept and
       said he would be willing to accept the commercial zoning for the proposed
       project as long as everything was locked down and done right.

6.8    Seth Wright, Draper resident, said he lived adjacent to the proposed project.
       He expressed a desire for the current look of the neighborhood to be
       maintained. He said it would be nice to see a real plan and actual renderings.
       Mr. Wright said it was difficult to watch where he lived turn into something
       different.

6.9    Kelsie Wright, Draper resident, said she believed the proposed concept was a
       beautiful idea. She commented that it was hard for someone to feel they lived
       in a residential neighborhood when they were surrounded by neighborhood
       commercial zoning. She said her biggest concern was opening the door to
       more commercial in the neighborhood.

6.10   Amy Smith, Draper resident, said she appreciated neighbor concerns about
       change. She said she owned the three subject properties, and said the existing
       homes were very old with plumbing that did not work. Ms. Smith said she
       believed something needed to happen at that location, and said she thought
       the proposed project was beautiful.

6.11   Mayor Walker closed the public hearing.

6.12   City Attorney Mike Barker stated the proposed Development Agreement did
       not include details regarding architecture design.

6.13   Councilmember F. Lowry expressed concern that the Development Agreement
       seemed to place a lot of liability and responsibility on the City. Councilmember
       F. Lowry said the City had agreed to not extend commercial zoning south of
       Pioneer Road, as pointed out by residents. He said he agreed that assisted
       living was needed.

6.14   Councilmember T. Lowery said she felt strongly that the City made a
       commitment to residents about where the line would be drawn with
       commercial zoning, and said she believed the Council needed to honor the

                                                                           Page 5 of 7
       commitment. She expressed concerns about the compatibility of the proposed
       use in the area. Councilmembers Green and Vawdrey said they shared the
       same concerns.

6.15   Councilmember T. Lowery moved to deny Ordinances #1570 and #1571.
       Councilmember Vawdrey seconded the motion.

6.16   A roll call vote was taken. The motion passed unanimously.

                                      Yes     No      Absent
        Councilmember Green           X
        Councilmember T. Lowery       X
        Councilmember F. Lowry        X
        Councilmember Roberts         X
        Councilmember Vawdrey         X

7.0    Council/ Manager Reports

7.1    Councilmember Vawdrey suggested scheduling a retreat for the Council to
       discuss issues. The Council and staff discussed scheduling and possible
       locations.

7.2    Councilmember Roberts asked for an update regarding Draper Days. Mr.
       Dobbins and Mayor Walker responded that planning had moved forward.
       Councilmember Roberts asked that the Council receive regular updates.

7.3    Councilmember F. Lowry thanked the Public Works Department, Police
       Department, and Fire Department for their response to recent storms and
       emergencies.

8.0    Recess to a Draper City Municipal Building Authority Meeting

8.1    Councilmember F. Lowry moved to recess to a Municipal Building Authority
       Meeting. Councilmember T. Lowery seconded the motion.

8.2    A roll call vote was taken. The motion passed unanimously.

                                      Yes     No      Absent
        Councilmember Green           X

                                                                      Page 6 of 7
       Councilmember T. Lowery       X
       Councilmember F. Lowry        X
       Councilmember Roberts         X
       Councilmember Vawdrey         x

8.3   The Council returned to the City Council meeting at 8:26 p.m.

9.0   Adjournment

9.1   Councilmember Green moved to adjourn the meeting. Councilmember
      Roberts seconded the motion.

9.2   A voice vote was taken. The motion passed unanimously.

9.3   The meeting adjourned at 8:27 p.m.




                                                                      Page 7 of 7
