Maryann Pickering

From:                           David Tillotson <david@ikondev.com>
Sent:                           Friday, April 28, 2023 11:58 AM
To:                             Maryann Pickering
Cc:                             John Wheatley; James Wheatley
Subject:                        Re: Trail side Townhomes



Maryann,

The reason for the extension is two fold.

1) the plat was approved in July 2022, however it was at a standstill because the site plan approval went through
an appeal process and was not approved until December 2022.

2) we have also been in constant contact with the Suncrest HOA and their design review board. Unfortunately,
Suncrest has been extremely slow and difficult in their approval and we still do not have concrete feedback
from their DRB. We continue to push for feedback on a weekly basis but have been given no direction as to
when we will hear something.

Please let us know if you need anything else to get on the planning commission agenda ASAP. We’d like to
push this extension through as quickly and efficiently as possible.

Thanks,
David

——
David Tillotson
IKON Development | Owner
C: 214-215-7041
E: david@ikondev.com

Information in this message (including any attachments) is confidential, may be legally privileged, and is
intended solely for the use of the person(s) identified above. The sender did not intend to waive any privilege by
sending this message. If you are not the intended recipient of this message, please notify the sender by replying
to this message and delete the original and any copies of the message. Any duplication, dissemination or
distribution of this message by unintended recipients is prohibited.


       On Apr 27, 2023, at 9:23 AM, Maryann Pickering <Maryann.Pickering@draperutah.gov> wrote:

       John,

       We need more detail in writing. You can send the email or attach a letter either is fine with me.

       You should discuss the reason you need the extension so the Planning Commission can make an
       informed decision.


                                                        1
We still have plenty of time to get this on an agenda.

Thanks,
Maryann

-----Original Message-----
From: John Wheatley <john@ikondev.com>
Sent: Wednesday, April 26, 2023 5:26 PM
To: Maryann Pickering <Maryann.Pickering@draperutah.gov>
Cc: David Tillotson <david@ikondev.com>; James Wheatley <james@ikondev.com>
Subject: Trail side Townhomes

Maryann - Please proceed with the six month extension that we discussed for the plat recordation
deadline for Trailside Townhomes. Thanks!

John

JOHN WHEATLEY I OWNER
C 801-557-7297
john@ikondev.com




                                                 2
