NovusAGENDA
CITY COUNCIL AGENDA July 11, 2023 at 6:30 PM
1020 E. Pioneer Rd. Draper, UT 84020 Council Chambers 6:30 PM STUDY MEETING 1. Update: South Salt Lake Valley Mosquito Abatement District - Brad Gilson a 2. Update: Draper Days - Kellie Challburg a 3. 2023 Moderate Income Housing Report Presentation and work session regarding the annual Moderate Income Housing Plan and required reporting to the State. Staff Presentation by Todd Draper. a 4. Council/Manager Reports a 7:00 PM BUSINESS MEETING 1. Call to Order 2. Thought/Prayer and Pledge of Allegiance 3. Public Comments To be considerate of everyone attending the meeting, public comments will be restricted to items that are not listed on this or a future agenda and limited to three minutes per person. Comments which cannot be made within these limits should be submitted in writing to the City Recorder prior to noon the day before the meeting. Comments pertaining to an item on the agenda should not be given at this time but should be held until that item is called. 4. Consent Items a. Approval of June 20, 2023, City Council Meeting Minutes b. Approval of Resolution #23-34 A Resolution reappointing Adam Crayk, Nate Crowther, and Doug Anderson as members of the Draper City Parks, Trails, and Recreation Committee. c. Approval of Resolution #23-35 A Resolution appointing Susan Nixon as a regular member of the Draper City Planning Commission.  d. Approval of Resolution #23-36 A Resolution reappointing Dave Cloward and Janet Simonich to the Draper City Tree Committee. e. Approval of Resolution #23-37 A Resolution of the Draper City Council amending Section 3040 of the Personnel Policies and Procedures Manual regarding Release of Employee Information. Staff: Malena Murray f. Approval of Resolution #23-38 A Resolution approving an Interlocal Agreement with Salt Lake County to install a traffic signal at Porter Rockwell Trail (12470 South) and 1300 East. 5. Report: Proposed property tax increase by Jordan Valley Water Conservancy District for water service purposes Report by Reed Gibby of the Board of Trustees of the Jordan Valley Water Conservancy District, representing Draper City. Comments by members of the public and/or the City Council will be received.  a 6. Action Item: Resolution #23-39 A Resolution of the Draper City Council granting preliminary approval for the withdrawal of the Little Valley Subdivision from Traverse Ridge Special Service District. a 7. Adjournment SALT LAKE COUNTY AND UTAH COUNTY, STATE OF UTAH I, the City Recorder of Draper City, certify that copies of the agenda for the Draper City Council meeting to be held July 11, 2023 , were posted at Draper City Hall, Draper City website www.draperutah.gov , and the Utah Public Notice website at www.utah.gov/pmn . Date Posted: July 7, 2023 Laura Oscarson, CMC, City Recorder  Draper City, State of Utah   In compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act, any individuals needing special accommodations or services during this meeting shall notify Laura Oscarson, City Recorder at (801) 576-6502 or laura.oscarson@draperutah.gov , at least 24 hours prior to the meeting.