MINUTES OF THE DRAPER CITY PLANNING COMMISSION MEETING HELD ON
THURSDAY, MAY 25, 2023 IN THE DRAPER CITY COUNCIL CHAMBERS

PARTICIPATING: Andrew Adams, Chairman
               Craig Hawker, Vice-Chair
               Commission Member Mary Squire
               Commission Member DeLaina Tonks
               Commission Member Lisa Fowler

ABSENT:               Commission Member Gary Ogden
                      Alternate Commission Member Susan Nixon
                      Alternate Commission Member Kendra Shirey

STAFF PRESENT: Jennifer Jastremsky, Community Development Director
               Mike Barker, City Attorney
               Spencer DuShane, Assistant City Attorney
               Brien Maxfield, Senior Engineer Manager
               Amie Salazar, Office Manager
               Tevai Haunga, City Planner

6:30 PM Business Meeting

Chair Andrew Adams called the meeting to order.

1.     Public Hearing: Epic Blooms LLC Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit
       (Administrative Action)
       On the request of Katherine Pendergast for a Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit for a
       cottage business making and selling floral arrangements from the home. The property is
       located at 15281 South Tall Woods Drive in the RM (Multi Family Residential Zone) and
       Suncrest Master Development Agreement. Application USE-028-2023. Staff contact is Tevai
       Haunga 801-576-6522 or tevai.haunga@draperutah.gov.

City Planner, Tevai Haunga, presented the Staff Report and stated that the request is for a Home
Occupation Conditional Use Permit in Suncrest. The applicant is requesting a cottage business where
she will make floral arrangements in her basement. The operating hours will be Monday through
Sunday from 9 AM – 6 PM. No customers or employees will come to the home. All orders will be
made by phone or email and all products are delivered in personal vehicles to customers. Ms. Haunga
displayed Vicinity and Aerial Maps. The land use designation is Residential Medium Density and
the current zoning is Multi-Family Residential. Ms. Haunga presented the Site Plan and photos of
the products that will be made in the home. Staff received no comments from neighbors or residents.

The applicant, Katherine Pendergast introduced herself and her husband, Stephen Waits, and stated
that they love making flowers and would like to do it in their basement. They deliver in Salt Lake
and Utah counties. They deliver in their personal vehicles directly to clients.

Vice Chair Hawker asked if they will eventually have customers come to the home. Ms. Pendergast
stated that they do not want customers to come to their place of business. Mr. Waits stated that they
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
May 25, 2023
Page 2

plan to set the website up as delivery only. They are not looking to increase traffic for themselves or
their neighbors.

Chair Adams opened the public hearing. There were no public comments. The public hearing was
closed.

Motion: Vice Chair Craig Hawker moved to APPROVE the Epic Blooms, LLC Home
Occupation Conditional Use Permit as requested by Katherine Pendergast, representing
application USE-028-2023 based on the following:

Conditions:

       1.      All business requirements of the Draper City Engineering, Public Works
               Building, Business Licensing, Planning, and Fire Divisions are satisfied
               throughout the operation of the business.

       2.      A Business License shall be maintained for the life of the business.

       3.      Customers are not allowed to come to the property.

       4.      Employees who do not reside in the home are not allowed.

Findings:

       1.      Reasonable mitigation measures can be placed on the conditional use to alleviate
               anticipated detrimental effects.

Second: Commissioner DeLaina Tonks

Vote: A roll call was taken with the Commissioners voting 4-to-0 in favor of the motion.
Commissioners Squire, Tonks, Fowler, and Hawker voted “Aye”. The motion passed
unanimously.

2.     Public Hearing: Big Willow Creek Phase 7 & 8 Site Plan and Plat Amendment
       (Administrative Action)
       On the request of Ben Hansen, representing Ivory Development, for a Site Plan and Plat
       Amendment for 7.25 acres of property located in the R4, RM2, and RA1 zones, located at
       approximately 491 W 11400 South Applications SPR-128-2022, SUBD-1104-2020. Staff
       contact is Jennifer Jastremsky, 801-576-6328, jennifer.jastremsky@draperutah.gov.

Community Development Director, Jennifer Jastremsky, presented the Staff Report and stated that
the property is part of the Big Willow Creek Development and is located immediately south of 11400
South on the east side of Englemann Drive. Ms. Jastremsky displayed an aerial map and stated that
Englemann Drive is the main access to Big Willow Creek off of 11400 South. Phase 1 is completely
developed. Phases 2 and 3 are under construction. There is a split land-use designation with
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
May 25, 2023
Page 3

Residential High Residency and Residential Medium Density. There is a small amount in the
Residential Low/Medium Designation. The zoning is also split with R/M2, which is multi-family,
R4, one-quarter acre lot single family, and a small amount of RA/1.

A Development Agreement on the property sets the maximum number of units. There will be future
phases for the portions not covered under the current applications. The Development Agreement also
allows for the density of the units to be spread across the property regardless of the specific zoning
lines. The proposal is to have a mix of single-family and townhomes. Phase 8 consists of single-
family lots with a mix of alley-faced driveways and front-loading garages from the street. Phase 7
will feature townhomes. There will be townhomes facing Englemann Drive with an open space area.
The property is vested under a previous Code regarding RM/2 zoning. Currently, for small lot single-
family development certain setbacks are required. The previous Code specified that the setbacks for
single-family lots are determined as part of the site plan process. The current Code requires five or
six-foot side setbacks, 20-foot front setbacks, and 20-foot rear setbacks. For the single-family
housing, the applicants are proposing 20-foot front and 15-foot rear setbacks for the front-loaded
garages. They are proposing 15-foot front and 20-foot rear setbacks for the rear-loaded garages.
There is a 20-foot-deep driveway for all the garages and a five-foot side setback. The setback would
be 20 feet if on a corner. Ms. Jastremsky stated that what is proposed is in line with the current Code
and meets the design intent of the streetscape.

Phase 7 of the townhomes will include the required open space with 42% overall open space with the
minimum being 30%. Future phases for townhomes will also include open space. The overall
percentage was expected to be around 30% for the entire townhome section. The applicants have
provided an extensively landscaped front area on 11400 South. It includes a xeriscape design with
lawn areas. It will also feature rocks, streams, and lawns.

Vice Chair Hawker asked if it would be a true open space park or have a retention pond.
Ms. Jastremsky stated that the pond will hold water. Street trees will be provided along Englemann
Drive with the center landscaped area for the townhomes featuring a playground area, walking paths,
and benches. The building elevations were provided in the Staff Report. Each unit will have a two-
car garage and visitor parking. The developers are providing twice the required parking count for
guest parking. Once future phases come in, they will not double the number of guest parking stalls
but will still comply with the Code. The parking requirements will be evaluated in future phases.

In response to a question raised by Chair Adams, Ms. Jastremsky stated that there will be three
additional phases. The parking requirements will be evaluated with each phase. There will be a
maximum number of units from the Development Agreement that cannot be exceeded. The developer
will have to comply with the City’s parking standards.

The applicant, Ben Hansen from Ivory Development reported that there will be a Phase 9 and 10.
Phase 9 will be the single-family homes on the west side of Englemann Drive. Phase 10 will include
the remaining townhome units. Mr. Hansen intends to present Phases 9 and 10 at the next meeting.
All of the unit counts were taken into consideration and the plans have been established in terms of
unit counts. They will also meet the requirements for storm drains, sewer, and water.
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
May 25, 2023
Page 4

Commissioner Fowler expressed concern about the front-facing homes on Englemann Drive.
Mr. Hansen stated that while they are front facing, they will have rear-loading garages onto private
roads. In response to a question raised by Chair Adams, Mr. Hansen confirmed that this project is
similar to the Holbrook Farms Project.

Chair Adams opened the public hearing.

C.J. Cleveland, an area resident, was concerned about traffic and parking and asked if all the front-
facing homes will have 20-foot driveways behind the homes. He was concerned about on-street
parking resulting in the street being limited to one lane. He asked if the townhomes will also have
20-foot driveways and wanted to ensure that each unit has a driveway.

There were no further public comments. Chair Adams closed the public hearing.

Mr. Hansen confirmed that the driveways will be 20 feet. In addition, they have eliminated about 20
townhomes by adding more single-family homes.

Commissioner Squire asked if parking will be allowed on the internal streets. Mr. Hansen did not
believe it had been addressed in the Development Agreement but he preferred that not occur. For
that reason, they provided additional parking. Englemann Drive is a public street so on-street parking
there will be controlled by the City. Commissioner Squire asked if the width of the internal streets is
the same as standard City streets. Ms. Jastremsky stated that the interior streets are private. The
looped road is 37 feet wide and will allow for on-street parking on one side. Narrower roads will not
allow for on-street parking.

Commissioner Fowler asked Senior Engineering Manager, Brien Maxfield how the community would
petition the City to prohibit parking on Englemann Drive. Mr. Maxfield stated that with a public
street, the City’s policy is to allow on-street parking unless issues arise. The Traffic Committee would
accept requests for a “No Parking” sign and the situation would be evaluated based on safety and
traffic issues. They would then decide whether to post signs. The City’s first stance was to allow
parking until and unless there are issues.

Vice Chair Hawker stated that 20-foot driveways are currently required on all properties in the City.
Ms. Jastremsky confirmed that was the case.

Motion: Vice Chair Hawker moved to APPROVE the Site Plan as requested by Ben Hansen,
representing Ivory Development for Big Willow Creek Phase 7 & 8 Site Plan, Application SPR-
128-2022, subject to the following:

Findings:

       1.      There is good cause for the vacation or amendment; and no public street, Big
               Willow Creek Ph. 7 & 8 App. # SPR-128-22023, SUBD-1104-2020 Site Plan and
               Plat Amendment Request 11 right-of-way, or easement has been vacated or
               amended.
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
May 25, 2023
Page 5


      2.      A phased development plan has been approved.

      3.      The Site Plan conforms to applicable standards set forth in this title, including
              but not limited to, building heights, setbacks, access points, parking, landscaping,
              and building materials.

      4.      The proposed development plans meet the intent, goals, and objectives of the
              General Plan and the purpose of the zoning district in which the site is located.

      5.      The public facilities and services in the area are adequate to support the subject
              development, as required by engineering standards and specifications.

      6.      The proposed development plans comply with the engineering standards found
              in Titles 7, 8, 11, 12, 16, and 18 of this code, including traffic, stormwater
              drainage, and utility concerns.

Conditions:

      1.      That all requirements of the Draper City Engineering, Public Works, Building,
              Planning, and Fire Divisions are satisfied throughout the development of the site
              and the construction of all buildings on the site, including permitting.

      2.      That all requirements of the geotechnical report are satisfied throughout the
              development of the site and the construction of all buildings on the site.

      3.      Address outstanding redlines included in Exhibit A of this report.

      4.      If the plat amendment is not recorded within one (1) year from the date of
              approval or construction of the required landscaping and infrastructure has not
              commenced, such approval shall be null and void. This time period may be
              extended by the Planning Commission for up to one additional six (6) month
              period for good cause shown. The subdivider must petition in writing for an
              extension prior to the expiration of the original one (1) year. See DCMC Section
              17-9-070.

Second: Commissioner Lisa Fowler

Vote: A roll call was taken with the Commissioners voting 4-to-0 in favor of the motion.
Commissioners Squire, Tonks, Fowler, and Hawker voted “Aye”. The motion passed
unanimously.

Motion: Commissioner Mary Squire moved to APPROVE the Plat Amendment, as requested
by Ben Hansen representing Ivory Development, for Big Willow Creek Phase 7 & 8 Plat
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
May 25, 2023
Page 6

Amendment, application SUBD-1104-2020, based on the findings and subject to the conditions
listed in the Staff Report dated May 16, 2023.

Second: Commissioner Fowler

Vote: A roll call was taken with the Commissioners voting 4-to-0 in favor of the motion.
Commissioners Squire, Tonks, Fowler, and Hawker voted “Aye”. The motion passed
unanimously.

3.     Public Hearing: Edwards Life Sciences Site Plan Amendment and Deviation
       (Administrative Item)
       The applicant has requested that these items be continued to a date uncertain. On the request
       of Cecilia Uriburu representing Prescott Muir Architects and Edwards Life Sciences LLC, a
       site plan amendment request to construct an approximately 78,861 square foot building
       expansion, inclusive of a deviation request to allow for an increase in the on-site parking count
       above the maximum amount specified by zoning on an approximately 19.159-acre property
       located at approximately 12050 S. Lone Peak Parkway, known as Application SPR-195-2022
       and     VAR-20-2023,         Staff     Contact:     Todd       Draper,       (801)     576-6335,
       Todd.draper@draperutah.gov.

The applicant requested that the above item be continued to a date uncertain.

4.     Public Hearing: Edwards Life Sciences Text Amendment (Legislative Item)
       The applicant has requested that this item be continued to a date uncertain. On the request of
       Cecilia Uriburu representing Prescott Muir Architects and Edwards Life Sciences LLC, a text
       amendment to amend the CSD-LP (Lone Peak Commercial Special District) zone to set the
       amount of required landscaping for the Edwards Life Sciences property at ten percent (10%).
       The property is approximately 19.159 acres and is located at approximately 12050 South Lone
       Peak Parkway, known as application TEXTMAP-53-2023, Staff Contact: Todd Draper, (801)
       576-6335, todd.draper@draperutah.gov.

The applicant requested that the above item be continued to a date uncertain.

Vice Chair Hawker asked if a Homeowners Association ("HOA”) can circumvent a public street. Ms.
Jastremsky stated that it cannot. HOAs do, however, control private streets. The City is responsible
for City streets. The Traffic Committee discussed times when the City has deemed it necessary to
post “No Parking” signs. It typically takes place in high-density areas where on-street parking has
become an issue and prevents two-way traffic. It becomes a safety concern because it limits
emergency vehicle access. Pedestrian crossings and snowplow access were also of concern.
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
May 25, 2023
Page 7

5.     Adjournment.

Motion: Commissioner Squire moved to ADJOURN.

Second: Commissioner Fowler seconded the motion.

Vote: The motion passed with the unanimous consent of the Commission.

The meeting adjourned at 7:01 PM.
