MINUTES OF THE DRAPER CITY COUNCIL MEETING HELD ON TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 12,
2023, IN THE DRAPER CITY COUNCIL CHAMBERS, 1020 EAST PIONEER ROAD, DRAPER,
UTAH

PRESENT:     Mayor Troy K. Walker, and Councilmembers Mike Green, Tasha Lowery, Fred
             Lowry, Cal Roberts, and Marsha Vawdrey

EXCUSED:

STAFF:       David Dobbins, City Manager; Mike Barker, City Attorney; Kellie Challburg, Chief
             of Staff; Scott Cooley, City Engineer; Rich Ferguson, Chief of Police; Jennifer
             Jastremsky, Community Development Director; Bret Millburn, Assistant City
             Manager; Malena Murray, Human Resources Director; Rhett Ogden, Parks and
             Recreation Director; Laura Oscarson, City Recorder; Linda Peterson,
             Communications Director; Clint Smith, Fire Chief; Jake Sorensen, IT; John Vuyk,
             Finance Director; and Jared Zacharias, Assistant Finance Director

_____________________________________________________________________________________

1.         Study Session
            1.a Discussion: Requests to surplus City properties
                 Assistant City Manager Bret Millburn reviewed a list of City-owned properties
                 proposed for surplus with the Council. The Council provided feedback
                 regarding their desires for the different parcels.
            1.b Closed Session: By Motion, The Draper City Council may temporarily
                recess the regular meeting and convene in a closed session to discuss
                the character, professional competence, or physical or mental health of
                an individual, pending or reasonably imminent litigation, or the
                purchase, exchange, or lease of real property, as provided by UCA 52-4-
                205
                A closed session was not needed.
            1.c Council/Manager Reports
                Staff provided updates on street projects and traffic, and answered
                questions from the Council. Kellie Challburg updated the Council regarding
                options for a Farmer’s Market, and the Council provided feedback. The
                Council continued the discussion of street projects.

           Business Session


2.         Call to Order by Mayor Troy K. Walker


3.         Thought/Prayer and Pledge of Allegiance


Draper City Council DRAFT Meeting Minutes – September 12, 2023
     Assistant City Manager Bret Millburn offered a prayer, and Police Chief Rich
     Ferguson led participants in the Pledge of Allegiance.


4.   Oath of Office: Draper Youth Council
     Mayor Walker expressed appreciation for Youth Council participants. City Recorder
     Laura Oscarson administered the oath of office to the new Draper Youth Council.


5.   Presentation
     Representing the Utah Municipal Clerks Association, Jackie Nostrom, Herriman City
     Recorder, Tangee Sloan, West Jordan City Recorder, and Wendy Downs, Sandy City
     Recorder, presented Laura Oscarson with a Master Municipal Clerk designation,
     and Angela Fixmer with a Certified Municipal Clerk designation. The City Council
     offered congratulations and took the opportunity for a photograph.


6.   Public Comments
     Jonathan Jefferies, a Draper resident, spoke of flooding issues on his property and
     neighboring properties related to removed canals and irrigation ditches around
     13800 South. He asked that the City complete the construction of curb, gutter, and
     drainage infrastructure in the area as soon as possible.

     Steve Heaps, a Draper resident, said he lived next door to Mr. Jeffries. Mr. Heaps
     spoke of flooding issues and expressed confidence the City would do something.

     Lori Russell, a Draper resident, spoke of recent flooding on her property and said
     she observed that flooding did not occur for residences where curb and gutter
     were present.

     Stacey Williams, a Draper resident, explained that parking for the apartments
     across the street from her home was posted as being restricted to certain hours.
     She said her family required more vehicles than fit in her driveway, and said she
     wanted her children to be able to park on the street in front of her home without
     receiving tickets. Ms. Williams proposed that residents living on the street not be
     penalized for parking in front of their homes and presented a petition with 109
     signatures.

     Quinn Horrocks, a Draper resident, spoke of drainage and flooding issues in his
     neighborhood. He said the problem would not be solved with curb and gutter
     alone, and suggested further design work was needed.



                                                                             2|Page
     Elizabeth Lebrecht, a Draper resident, said she lived next door to Mr. Horrocks and
     agreed that a curb and gutter alone would not solve the flooding issues. She spoke
     of the overwhelming flow of water during recent storms.

     Brian Lebrecht, Draper resident, said he agreed that the amount of water resulting
     from recent storms was more than the curb and gutter alone would be able to
     handle. He said he was skeptical that existing infrastructure had worked as it
     should, and he would like to see a study done by an independent firm.

     Carmen Fagg, a Draper resident, said her property was next to a trail, and the
     existing overflow ditch was always clogged up from residents throwing debris into
     the ditch. She said the clogged ditch resulted in water overflow during recent
     storms that took out half of her backyard and flooded her basement. Ms. Fagg
     suggested that residents throwing debris into the ditch should be cited, and said
     the City needed to clean up and take care of the ditch.


7.   Consent Items
     7.a Approval of the August 15, 2023, City Council Meeting Minutes.
     7.b Approval of Resolution #23-47, a Resolution of the Draper City Council
          consenting to the reorganization of the Timpanogos Special Service
          District as a Special District.
     7.c Approval of Resolution #23-49, a Resolution of the Draper City Council
          disposing of property seized as evidence in accordance with Utah Code
          Section 77-11a-402.
     7.d Approval of Resolution #23-50, a Resolution of the Draper City Council
          approving and authorizing the execution of an Interlocal Cooperation
          Agreement with Salt Lake County and other cities relating to the
          conduct of the Community Development Block Grant Program,
          Emergency Solutions Grant Program, and the Home Investment
          Partnership Program.
     7.e Approval of Resolution #23-51, a Resolution of the Draper City Council
          disposing of surplus personal property in accordance with Draper City
          Municipal Code Section 3-3-150.
     7.f Approval of Ordinance #1584, an Ordinance of Draper City Council
          amending Title 6 Chapter 8 of the Draper City Municipal Code pertaining
          to soliciting.

          Councilmember Vawdrey moved to approve the Consent items.
          Councilmember Green seconded the motion.

                                                                             3|Page
          A roll call vote was taken. The motion passed unanimously.

                                             Yes   No    Absent
          Councilmember Green                X
          Councilmember T. Lowery            X
          Councilmember F. Lowry             X
          Councilmember Roberts              X
          Councilmember Vawdrey              X

8.   Items for Council Consideration
     8.a Action item: Resolution #23-46, a Resolution of the Draper City Council
          granting final approval for the withdrawal of the Little Valley
          Subdivision (Cove at Little Valley) from the Traverse Ridge Special
          Service District (TRSSD).
          Assistant City Manager Bret Millburn provided background information and
          a timeline for the request to withdraw from the TRSSD and said the Council
          gave preliminary approval for the Cove at Little Valley (CALV) to withdraw
          from the TRSSD in July of 2023.

          Councilmember T. Lowery moved to approve Resolution #23-46.
          Councilmember Green seconded the motion.

          A roll call vote was taken. The motion passed unanimously.

                                             Yes   No    Absent
          Councilmember Green                X
          Councilmember T. Lowery            X
          Councilmember F. Lowry             X
          Councilmember Roberts              X
          Councilmember Vawdrey              X

     8.b Public Hearing: Ordinance #1586, on the request of Brad Mackay,
         representing Ivory Development for an Amendment to the Fitzgerald
         Property Development Agreement for 22.39 acres of property located at
         1085 East 12650 South. The property is zoned R5, application number 23-
         4505-DA. The application is known as the Fitzgerald Property Amended
         Development Agreement.
         Community Development Director Jennifer Jastremsky explained the Applicant
         desired to modify the original concept plan for the Fitzgerald Property to move
         an access point to connect at 12650 South rather than at 12600 South. To


                                                                             4|Page
accommodate the proposed change, staff proposed the Applicant install an
80-foot diameter cul-de-sac, with no curb and gutter. The Applicant proposed
a 75-foot diameter cul-de-sac with 2.5 feet of curb and gutter for a total of 80
feet (79 feet of drivable surface).

Ms. Jastremsky explained the Applicant also desired to amend the
Development Agreement to allow detached accessory dwelling units (D-ADUs)
on all lots in the development regardless of lot size (restricted to a maximum
2 stories in height), with a minimum 5-foot rear and side setback. Lots would
be prohibited from having both an internal ADU (I-ADU) and a detached ADU.

Ms. Jastremsky said the Planning Commission recommended approval on a 3-
1 vote for the draft provided by the Applicant. Staff answered questions
regarding building height and the potential impact of the requested change on
traffic.

Brad Mackay with Ivory Development said the proposed access change was to
accommodate sewer and storm drain utility lines. Mr. Mackay said he believed
the development was a good location for D-ADUs to be included above
detached garages on some of the lots. He said all of the lots would qualify to
have an I-ADU, and about half of the lots could accommodate a D-ADU. The
proposed amendment to the Development Agreement would clarify that a lot
could not have both an I-ADU and a D-ADU.

Mr. Mackay said the language presented that day regarding the cul-de-sac was
different than he had seen previously, but emphasized that Ivory Development
was willing to work with the City.

Councilmember T. Lowery said she was uncomfortable with the proposed
deviations from established City setback and height requirements. She said
the City made a clear statement in the original Development Agreement
regarding what was desired. Mr. Mackay responded that the proposed height
deviation would reduce the possible height from the potential three-stories to
two-stories. He said the current City setbacks would not really work for a
detached garage and D-ADU.

Councilmember Green said he felt the proposal needed more work. He
suggested the Applicant figure out which lots made sense for a D-ADU, and
request the Council entitle D-ADUs for specific lots. Councilmember T. Lowery


                                                                    5|Page
said she believed the lots needed to meet the current Code whether or not
they had a D-ADU.

Mayor Walker opened a public hearing.

Troy Blundell, a Draper resident, said he spoke on behalf of the residents on
1015 East. He expressed support for the cul-de-sac proposal.

Carol Sue Johnson, a Draper resident, said she agreed with Councilmember T.
Lowery that the proposal was too dense with a five-foot setback.

Mayor Walker closed the public hearing.

Councilmember Green said he was comfortable with the proposed cul-de-sac
change, but believed the ADU amendments needed more work.
Councilmember F. Lowry said he did not believe it made sense to give direction
that would be contrary to the existing Code. City Manager David Dobbins
suggested staff sit down with the applicant to address concerns expressed by
the Council and bring the proposal back at the September 19, 2023 meeting.

Mr. Mackay commented that the current side yard setback under Code was 8
feet, and said he did not see how an 8-foot setback accomplished more than
the proposed 5-foot setback other than affecting the placement of a detached
garage and ADU. Mr. Mackay said the existing rear setback was 20 feet, and
said he did not understand what good 20 feet would be behind a garage.

Councilmember F. Lowry moved to continue Ordinance #1586 to the
September 19, 2023 City Council meeting. Councilmember Vawdrey
seconded the motion.

A roll call vote was taken. The motion passed unanimously.

                                  Yes   No     Absent
Councilmember Green               X
Councilmember T. Lowery           X
Councilmember F. Lowry            X
Councilmember Roberts             X
Councilmember Vawdrey             X




                                                                   6|Page
8.c       Public Hearing: Resolution #23-48, a resolution amending the adopted
          budget of Draper City for Fiscal Year 2023-2024.

          Finance Director John Vuyk presented proposed FY2024 1st Quarter Budget
          Amendments, and answered questions from the Council.

          Mayor Walker opened a public hearing and closed the public hearing
          seeing no one come forward.

          Councilmember Green moved to approve Resolution #23-48, including
          the addition of funds ($350,000 in Park Impact Fees) to increase parking
          at Draper Park. Councilmember T. Lowery seconded the motion.

          A roll call vote was taken. The motion passed unanimously.

                                            Yes     No   Absent
           Councilmember Green              X
           Councilmember T. Lowery          X
           Councilmember F. Lowry           X
           Councilmember Roberts            X
           Councilmember Vawdrey            X

9.    Recess to a Community Reinvestment Agency Meeting
      Councilmember T. Lowery moved to recess to a Community Reinvestment
      Agency Meeting. Councilmember Vawdrey seconded the motion.

      A roll call vote was taken. The motion passed unanimously.

                                      Yes   No      Absent
      Councilmember Green             X
      Councilmember T. Lowery         X
      Councilmember F. Lowry          X
      Councilmember Roberts           X
      Councilmember Vawdrey           X

      The Council meeting reconvened at 8:30 p.m.


10.   Adjournment
      Councilmember Green moved to adjourn the meeting. Councilmember T.
      Lowery seconded the motion.

      A voice vote was taken. The motion passed unanimously.

                                                                        7|Page
The meeting adjourned at 8:31 p.m.




                                     8|Page
