MINUTES OF THE DRAPER CITY COUNCIL MEETING HELD ON TUESDAY, DECEMBER
6, 2022, IN THE DRAPER CITY COUNCIL CHAMBERS, 1020 EAST PIONEER ROAD,
DRAPER, UTAH

PRESENT:            Mayor Troy K. Walker, and Councilmembers Mike Green
                    (electronically), Tasha Lowery, Fred Lowry, Cal Roberts, and
                    Marsha Vawdrey

STAFF PRESENT:      David Dobbins, City Manager; Fred Aegerter, Community
                    Development Director; Mike Barker, City Attorney; Kellie
                    Challburg, Chief of Staff; Scott Cooley, City Engineer; John Eining,
                    Police Chief; Bret Millburn, Assistant City Manager; Malena
                    Murray, Human Resources Director; Rhett Ogden, Recreation
                    Director; Laura Oscarson, City Recorder; Linda Peterson,
                    Communications Director; Clint Smith, Fire Chief; Jake Sorensen,
                    IT; and Jared Zacharias, Assistant Finance Director
_____________________________________________________________
Study Session

1.0   Report: Traffic

1.1   Police Chief John Eining provided a traffic report for November 2022 and
      answered questions from the Council.

2.0   Report: Pavement Maintenance

2.1   City Engineer Scott Cooley updated the Council on pavement maintenance
      and the progress of Google Fiber installation. He spoke of plans to add a left
      turn lane on Traverse Ridge Road at Mike Weir Drive to improve traffic flow.

3.0   Council/Manager Report

3.1   The Council discussed replacing the Moto Challenge with a Monster Truck
      event and reviewed a list of 2023 events.

4.0   Closed Session




Draper City Council DRAFT Minutes – December 6, 2022
4.1   Councilmember Roberts moved to recess to a Closed Session to discuss
      property acquisition and pending or reasonably imminent litigation.
      Councilmember T. Lowery seconded the motion.

4.2   A roll call vote was taken. The motion passed unanimously.

                                             Yes   No     Absent
            Councilmember Green              x
            Councilmember T. Lowery          x
            Councilmember F. Lowry           x
            Councilmember Roberts            x
            Councilmember Vawdrey            x

Business Session

1.0   Call to Order: Mayor Troy K. Walker

2.0   Thought/Prayer and Pledge of Allegiance

2.1   Nate Ray with The Front Church in Bluffdale offered a prayer, and Chief Clint
      Smith led the Pledge of Allegiance.

3.0   Public Comments

3.1   Sarah Brinkerhoff, an employee of the Draper City Library, invited the Council
      to visit an art show at the Draper Library.

3.2   Dan Portwood, a Draper resident, expressed appreciation for the holiday
      lights at Draper City Park. He encouraged the Council and Mayor to find a
      way to solve the accessory dwelling unit issue.

4.0   Consent Items
      a. Approval of the November 15, 2022, City Council Meeting Minutes
      b. Approval of Resolution #22-61, a Resolution of the Draper City Council
         establishing the regular meeting schedule for the City Council and
         Planning Commission for the year 2023
      c. Approval of Resolution #22-62, a Resolution appointing Angie Quinlan as
         a member of the Draper City Historic Preservation Commission



                                                                         Page 2 of 8
4.1   Councilmember T. Lowery moved to approve the Consent Items.
      Councilmember Roberts seconded the motion.

4.2   A roll call vote was taken. The motion passed 4 to 0.
      Councilmember Green was away from the zoom call during the vote.
                                      Yes     No      Absent
        Councilmember Green                           X
        Councilmember T. Lowery       X
        Councilmember F. Lowry        X
        Councilmember Roberts         X
        Councilmember Vawdrey         X

5.0   Public Hearing: Resolution #22-60, a Resolution declaring surplus portions of
      Parcel 34-09-479-026, at 14902 Traverse Road, as surplus property and
      authorizing the disposal of the same

5.1   Assistant City Manager Bret Millburn explained the request to declare surplus
      portions of Parcel 34-09-479-026, and exchange surplus property with the
      property currently held by SunCrest HOA.

5.2   Mayor Walker opened a public hearing. No one came forward, so Mayor
      Walker closed the public hearing.

5.3   Councilmember F. Lowry moved to approve Resolution #22-60.
      Councilmember Vawdrey seconded the motion.

5.4   A roll call vote was taken. The motion passed unanimously.

                                     Yes     No      Absent
       Councilmember Green           X
       Councilmember T. Lowery       X
       Councilmember F. Lowry        X
       Councilmember Roberts         X
       Councilmember Vawdrey         X

6.0   Public Hearing: Ordinance #1562, an Ordinance amending the Official Zoning
      Map of Draper City for approximately 2.26 acres of property from CG (General
      Commercial) to RM2 (Multi-family Residential), located at approximately 14178



                                                                       Page 3 of 8
      South Bangerter Parkway within Draper City, otherwise known as the
      Residences at Draper Hills Zoning Map Amendment

6.1   Planning Manager Jennifer Jastremsky explained the request to rezone
      approximately 2.26 acres from General Commercial to Multi-family Residential
      (RM2) and showed that surrounding neighborhoods were within the same
      land use designation and were developed at approximately the same density
      as proposed (up to 12 units per acre). Ms. Jastremsky showed site photos and
      concept elevations. The Planning Commission reviewed and recommended
      approval of Ordinance #1562 with a unanimous vote.

6.2   Mayor Walker opened a public hearing. Seeing that no one came forward to
      comment, Mayor Walker closed the public hearing.

6.3   Darin Mano with Raw Design Studio, representing the applicant, said the
      applicant believed the requested zoning would fit into the existing fabric of the
      area.

6.4   Responding to a question from Councilmember Vawdrey, Ms. Jastremsky said
      the General Commercial Zone allowed a wide array of commercial uses and
      showed the Permitted and Conditional Use Table.

6.5   Responding to a question from Councilmember Roberts, Greg Nield, the
      applicant, said he wanted to develop something that would be a good buffer
      and tie in well with the neighboring assisted living facility.

6.6   Councilmember Green moved to deny Ordinance #1562, stating he did not
      believe the request was an appropriate use. Councilmember T. Lowery
      seconded the motion, stating she was concerned about the amount of traffic
      already in the area.

6.    A roll call vote was taken. The motion passed four to one.

                                      Yes      No      Absent
       Councilmember Green            X
       Councilmember T. Lowery        X
       Councilmember F. Lowry                  X
       Councilmember Roberts          X
       Councilmember Vawdrey          X

                                                                           Page 4 of 8
7.0   Public Hearing: Ordinance #1569, an Ordinance of Draper City amending the
      text of the Land Use and Development Code of the Draper City Municipal Code
      relating to Manufacturing Zone setbacks and Box N Lock Storage

7.1   Ms. Jastremsky oriented the Council with proposed amendments to setbacks
      in Manufacturing Zones. She said the Planning Commission reviewed
      Ordinance #1569 and recommended approval with a unanimous vote.

7.2   Steve Tripp, applicant, described the planned storage facility.

7.3   Mayor Walker opened a public hearing and closed the public hearing seeing
      that no one stepped forward to comment.

7.4   Councilmember Vawdrey moved to approve                     Ordinance   #1569.
      Councilmember T. Lowery seconded the motion.

7.5   A roll call vote was taken. The motion passed unanimously.

                                      Yes      No      Absent
       Councilmember Green            X
       Councilmember T. Lowery        X
       Councilmember F. Lowry         X
       Councilmember Roberts          X
       Councilmember Vawdrey          X

8.0   Public Hearing: Ordinances #1570 and #1571, on the request of Bruce Bastian,
      representing J.B. Earl Company for a Development Agreement, Land Use Map
      Amendment, and Zoning Map Amendment for 1.65 acres of property at 12430
      S 700 E. Application is known as Royale Estate & Cottages

      This item was continued to the Draper City Council Meeting on January 10,
      2023.

9.0   Public Hearing: Resolution #22-63, a Resolution amending the adopted budget
      of Draper City for the fiscal year 2022-2023

9.1   Assistant Finance Director Jared Zacharias presented proposed FY 2023 2nd
      Quarter Budget Amendments and answered questions from the Council.

                                                                        Page 5 of 8
9.2   Councilmember Roberts asked if the Council would be able to withdraw
      funding proposed for the prison guard tower or the Gold Star Memorial if the
      Council did not like subsequent plans.

9.3   City Manager David Dobbins responded funds could be reallocated, or a
      project could be closed, with another budget amendment. He estimated plans
      and site work for the prison guard tower would cost approximately $5,000, and
      estimated determining the placement of the Gold Star Memorial would cost a
      few thousand dollars. Mr. Dobbins confirmed the Council would have
      discretion regarding whether or not a project would continue. The possibility
      of donations to help fund the guard tower was discussed.

9.4   Councilmember F. Lowry expressed support for preserving the prison guard
      tower as part of the history of Draper City. Collecting public input was
      suggested. Councilmember T. Lowery said she was not in favor of placing the
      guard tower at the event arena but would be open to considering other
      locations.

9.5   Public Works Director Scott Cooley answered questions regarding FY23-16.

9.6   Councilmember T. Lowery expressed support for FY23-17, TreeUtah Program.

9.7   Mayor Walker expressed support for preserving and placing the prison guard
      tower at the arena. He stated time for demolition was approaching, and the
      Council needed to decide if a majority were in favor of funding preservation.
      Mayor Walker stated the prison chapel would be preserved by The Point.
      Preservation of a guard tower would be the decision and responsibility of
      Draper City.

9.8   Councilmember Green expressed the opinion that the Council should not
      explore the preservation of a guard tower. He said he believed it would be in
      poor taste, and would not be a good use of taxpayer money. Councilmember
      Vawdrey said she did not like the look of the tower and was not fond of the
      idea.

9.9   A Councilmember stated they would not be willing to allocate funds for the
      guard tower without reviewing an engineering report and plan. Staff



                                                                       Page 6 of 8
       commented that at least $4,000 would need to be allocated for structural
       engineering. The total cost of moving and preserving the tower was unknown.

9.10   Mayor Walker opened a public hearing.

9.11   Sarah Brinkerhoff, an employee of the Draper City Library, said she thought
       the TreeUtah Program sounded exciting and expressed a desire for the library
       to be involved.

9.12   Mayor Walker closed the public hearing.

9.13   Mr. Zacharias suggested the Council keep in mind that if a lesser amount were
       allocated for the guard tower, and engineering plans came back with more
       funding needed, the budget could not be amended again until January 2023.
       He briefly explained the allocation of donations.

9.14   Councilmember Roberts moved to approve Item FY23-13 of Resolution #22-63
       at $50,000. Councilmember F. Lowry seconded the motion.

9.15   A roll call vote was taken. The motion failed 3 to 2.

                                        Yes     No       Absent
        Councilmember Green                     X
        Councilmember T. Lowery                 X
        Councilmember F. Lowry          X
        Councilmember Roberts           X
        Councilmember Vawdrey                   X

9.16   Councilmember Vawdrey moved to approve Resolution #22-63, excluding
       item FY23-13. Councilmember T. Lowery seconded the motion.

9.17   A roll call vote was taken. The motion passed unanimously.

                                        Yes     No       Absent
        Councilmember Green             X
        Councilmember T. Lowery         X
        Councilmember F. Lowry          X
        Councilmember Roberts           X
        Councilmember Vawdrey           X

                                                                        Page 7 of 8
10.0   Adjournment

10.1   Councilmember Roberts moved to adjourn the meeting. Councilmember
       Green seconded the motion.

10.2   A voice vote was taken. The motion passed unanimously.

10.3   The meeting adjourned at 8:17 p.m.




                                                                Page 8 of 8
