Coversheet
Item Coversheet MEMO To: Planning Commission
From: Todd A. Draper
CC:  Date: January 26, 2023
Re: City Initiated Water-Wise Landscaping and Site Amendments Text Amendment Request Comments: This application is a request for approval of a Text Amendment to amend landscaping, site development, and subdivision regulations within the Draper City Municipal Code (DCMC) primarily pertaining to the incorporation of water-wise landscaping practices and principals into the ordinance and the published water efficiency standards of the Jordan Valley Water Conservancy District (JVWCD). The findings are as follows: For a positive recommendation:
1. The proposed amendment is consistent with goals, objectives and policies of the city's general plan;
2. The proposed amendment furthers the specific purpose statements of the zoning ordinance;
3. The proposed amendment is appropriate given the context of the request and there is sufficient justification for a modification to the zoning ordinance;
4. The proposed amendment will not create a conflict with any other section or part of this title or the general plan;
5. The potential effects of the proposed amendment have been evaluated and are determined not to be detrimental to public health, safety, or welfare and represent an overall community benefit; and
6. The proposed text amendment implements best current, professional practices of urban planning, design, and engineering.
For a negative recommendation:
1. The proposed amendment is not consistent with goals, objectives and policies of the city's general plan;
2. The proposed amendment does not further the specific purpose statements of the zoning ordinance;
3. The proposed amendment is not appropriate given the context of the request and there is not sufficient justification for a modification to the zoning ordinance;
4. The proposed amendment could create a conflict with another section or part of this title or the general plan;
5. The potential effects of the proposed amendment have been determined to be detrimental to public health, safety, or welfare or do not represent an overall community benefit; and
6. The proposed text amendment is not consistent with current best practices of urban planning, design, and engineering. ATTACHMENTS: Description Upload Date Type P.C. Staff Report 1/23/2023 Cover Memo