                                 Development Review Committee
                                      1020 East Pioneer Road
                                        Draper, Utah 84020



                                                 STAFF REPORT
                                                  July 3, 2023

To:                   Draper City Planning Commission
                      Business Date: July 13, 2023

From:                 Development Review Committee

Prepared By:          Maryann Pickering, AICP, Planner III
                      Planning Division
                      Community Development Department
                      (801) 576-6391 or maryann.pickering@draperutah.gov

Re:     Bruce Creations — Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit Request
        Application No.:  USE-048-2023
        Applicant:        Leslie Bruce
        Project Location: Approximately 14205 S. Orgill Band Road
        Current Zoning:   RM (Multi-family Residential) Zone and South Mountain
                          Agreement
        Acreage:          Approximately 0.15 acres (approximately 6,534 square feet)
        Request:          Approval of a Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit in the
                          RM zone for a condtional home occupation for making
                          homemade crafts to sell.



SUMMARY and BACKGROUND
This application is a request for 0.15 acres located on the east side of Orgill Band Road
(Exhibits B and C). The property is currently zoned RM and is located in the South
Mountain Agreement area. The applicant is requesting approval of a home based cottage
business to make homemade crafts to sell. The home was built in 1996 and is Lot 376 of
South Mountain Phase 2A. As it is part of the South Mountain area, the property and zoning is
subject to the 1990 Draper City Municipal Code (1990 DCMC).


Bruce Creations                                                      App. # USE-048-2023
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit Request         1
ANALYSIS
General Plan and Zoning.

 Table 1                   General Plan and Zoning Designations                Exhibit
 Existing Land Use         Residential Medium High Density                     Exhibit D
 Current Zoning            RM                                                  Exhibit E
 Existing Use              Single Family Residential
 Adjacent Zoning
    East                   RM
    West                   RM
    North                  RM
    South                  RM

The Residential Medium Density land use designation is characterized as follows:




Bruce Creations                                                    App. # USE-048-2023
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit Request   2
According to 1990 DCMC Section 9-4-3 the purpose of the RM zone is to “provide areas for
low-to-medium residential density’ with the opportunity for varied housing styles and
character, providing for a maximum density of up to twelve (12) units per acre for medium
to high density residential unit projects subject to conditional-use permit procedures and
conditions for this type of use and based on minimum development guidelines adopted by
the City.”

Home Occupation. The applicant will be making homemade crafts with a large engraving
machine that is stored in the garage or a 3D printer in the home (Exhibit F). The applicant
is the only employee and will work out of a small area of the residence or in the garage.
Family members do occasionally help out. The crafts are sold at local craft fairs, festivals or
online. Customers do not come to the home, but occasionally friends will purchase items
at the home. The applicant has stated that 99% of the sales are not done at the home.

1990 DCMC Section 9-4-140                   Home Occupations.

(a)     Notwithstanding other sections of this Title, a home occupation shall be
        considered a permitted use in any residential, multiple family and agriculture zone
        if the proposed use meets all of the following conditions:

        1.       The home occupation is a home office, beauty salon, pre-school or day care
                 business, as regulated by the State of Utah.
                 The home occupation is a homemade crafts business will be processed as a
                 conditional use permit.

        2.       The business is owned and operated by the resident of the home.
                 The applicant is the only employee and family members sometimes help out.
                 The applicant is a resident of the home and has permission from the owner
                 to operate the business.

        3.       No employees, other than residents of the home, utilize the facility.
                 There will be no employees but the applicant and her family.

        4.       For beauty salon, pre-school or day care business, the hours of operation
                 do not begin before 7 a.m. or extend beyond 8 p.m.
                 Not applicable as this is a business as a homemade crafts business.

        5.       A business license is obtained from, and continually maintained with the City.
                 The applicant will comply with this section requirement.

        6.       All facilities are inspected by the Fire Department prior to initial use and
                 meet Fire Department standards at all times.
                 The applicant will comply with any and all inspections.


Bruce Creations                                                            App. # USE-048-2023
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit Request      3
        7.       All drop-off or customer parking is accommodated on paved portions of the
                 property.
                 There are no customers coming to the home as the applicant will be utilizing
                 their personal vehicle for product delivery.

        Information regarding the proposed use will be provided to the Neighborhood
        Association for the area in which the proposed use is to be located. The
        Neighborhood Association will have fourteen (14) days from the date of mailing to
        respond to the Zoning Administrator with comments regarding the proposed use.
        The Zoning Administrator will then review the response and determine if the
        proposed use is to be permitted, permitted with additional conditions, or will
        require a conditional use permit.
        The City does not have Neighborhood Associations anymore. The City used to have
        neighborhood organizations that worked like recommending neighborhood councils
        to the Zoning Administrator, Planning Commission, and City Council.

        (b)      Any home occupation which does not meet the provisions outlined above
                 shall be processed as a Conditional Use in accordance with Section 9-2-104
                 of this Title.
                 The applicant has applied for a conditional use permit.

The single family home on the property is approximately 3,300 square feet and will be
utilizing approximately 125 square feet for the home occupation which equals
approximately 4% of the home square footage. The business will be using most of the 125
square feet for the laser engraving machine. A small storage area in a room will be utilized.

Criteria For Approval.
The 1990 DCMC Section 9-3-21(e) outlines the standards to which the Planning Commission
should consider to determine whether a conditional use permit application should be
approved, denied, or approved with conditions:

e.      Determination.

        The Planning Commission may permit a conditional use to be located within any
        district in which the particular conditional use is allowed by the use regulations of
        this Chapter. In authorizing any conditional use the Planning Commission shall
        impose such requirements and conditions as are necessary for the protection of
        adjacent properties and the public welfare. The Planning Commission shall not
        authorize a conditional use permit unless the evidence presented is such to
        establish:




Bruce Creations                                                        App. # USE-048-2023
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit Request   4
         (1)     That such use will not, under the circumstances of the particular case, be
                 detrimental to the health, safety, or general welfare of persons residing or
                 working in the vicinity, or injurious to property or improvements in the
                 vicinity, and

         (2)     That the proposed use will comply with regulations and conditions specified
                 in this Chapter for such use.

         The Planning Commission shall itemize, describe, or justify, then have recorded and
         filed the actions imposed on the use.



REVIEWS
Planning Division Review. The Draper City Planning Division has completed their review of
the home occupation conditional use permit submission. Comments from the Division, if
any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Building Division Review. The Draper City Building Division has completed their review of
the home occupation conditional use permit submission. Comments from the Division, if
any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Engineering and Public Works Divisions Review. The Draper City Engineering and Public
Works Divisions has completed their review of the home occupation conditional use permit
submission. Comments from the Division, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Fire Division Review. The Draper City Fire has completed their review of the home
occupation conditional use permit submission. Comments from the Division, if any, can be
found in Exhibit A.

Legal Review. The Draper City Attorney has completed their review of the home
occupation conditional use permit submission. Comments from the Division, if any, can be
found in Exhibit A.

Noticing. Notice has been properly issued in the manner outlined in the City and State
Codes.



STAFF RECOMMENDATION
Staff recommends that the Planning Commission review the request, receive public
comment, and make a decision based on the findings listed below and the criteria for
approval, or denial, as listed within the staff report.




Bruce Creations                                                         App. # USE-048-2023
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit Request   5
If the Planning Commission decides to approve the request, staff recommends they include
the following conditions of approval:

1.      All requirements of the Draper City Fire Department, Building Division, and Business
        License Division shall be satisfied throughout the operation of the home occupation
        on the property.
2.      The home occupation is required to maintain approval and adequate licensure from
        any and all necessary agencies.

The findings for approval as are follows:

1.      Reasonable mitigation measures can be placed on the conditional use to alleviate
        anticipated detrimental effects.

The findings for denial as are follows:

1.      Reasonable mitigation measures cannot be placed on the conditional use to
        alleviate anticipated detrimental effects.



MODEL MOTIONS
Sample Motion for Approval – I move that we approve the home occupation conditional
use permit, as requested by Leslie Bruce, application USE-048-2023, based on the findings
and subject to the conditions listed in the staff report dated July 3, 2023.

Sample Motion for Modified Approval – I move that we approve the home occupation
conditional use permit, as requested by Leslie Bruce, application USE-048-2023, based on
the findings and subject to the conditions listed in the staff report dated July 3, 2023, and as
modified by the findings and conditions below:

1.      List any additional findings and conditions . . .

Sample Motion for Denial – I move that we deny the home occupation conditional use
permit, as requested by Leslie Bruce, application USE-048-2023, based on the findings and
subject to the conditions listed in the staff report dated July 3, 2023.




Bruce Creations                                                        App. # USE-048-2023
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit Request   6
                                    EXHIBIT A
                               DEPARTMENT REVIEWS

REVIEWS ARE NOT MEANT TO BE AN ALL INCLUSIVE LIST OF POSSIBLE COMMENTS OR
CONDITIONS.

Planning Division Review.
No additional comments provided.

Building Division Review.
No additional comments provided.

Engineering and Public Works Divisions Review.
No additional comments provided.

Fire Division Review.
No additional comments provided.
  EXHIBIT B
VICINITY MAP
 EXHIBIT C
AERIAL MAP
  EXHIBIT D
LAND USE MAP
 EXHIBIT E
ZONING MAP
        EXHIBIT F
APPLICANT’S INFORMAITON
A: We are currently ren ng but have discussed what we are doing with the homeowner. And he signed
and had notarized the aﬃdavit.

B: The Applica on is currently in for the Business license it is just wai ng on the permit.

C: I am the only employee of the business. Family members might help from me to me.

D: Comply

E: Inventory is stored in plas c bins in an extra room of the house. The room is 10x10 but it doesn’t take
up the whole room.

F: All work is done in the residence or the garage. I just do things in my free me where ever I am most
comfortable to do it. (couch, kitchen table, etc) The laser cu ng is done in the garage because of the
smoke that is can create.

G: Laser engraver emits some smoke if engraving wood. This can happen on occasion but barely
no ceable.

H: House is 3,300 approx. square feet.

I: No signs

J: 99% of the business will be done at cra fairs, fes val or online. There might be an occasional
customer that I already know that might purchase something when they are already visi ng our family.

K: Only a personal vehicle

L: Comply

M: Products will be sold at cra fairs, fes vals or online. Random customers (someone I would already
know personally) would be the only customers that would come to my house. And it would be during
normal mes of the day. There are no set business hours.

O: Comply

P: Comply

Q: Not Applicable.
The Nature of the business is random homemade cra items. Sewing Items like bookmarks, tote bags,
hair accessories or anything else that looks sun to make. Laser cut items jewelry and home décor items.
3d printed items small toys. Wood items would be cu ng boards, Puzzles and other random household
things. There would only be the random customers that I already know personally that might come to
the house to pick something up that they wanted while they are already visi ng. But items will mostly be
sold at cra fairs, fes vals or online. So, packages would be dropped oﬀ by me at a delivery service.
Parking would not be needed. There would be no hours of opera on at home as it is all done in my free
 me and customers would not be coming to the house. Employees (myself), helpers (family when
needed) all live at the house. It should have no eﬀect on any of the neighbors at all. except the
occasional machine noise if cu ng wood. This would of course all be done during the day, during normal
hours and comply with any noise ordinance.
