                                      DRAPER CITY HALL
                      Community Development | 1020 E. Pioneer Rd. Draper, UT 84020




November 21, 2022


Ikon Development
Attn: John Wheatley
4103 Canyon View Place
Sandy, Utah 84092

RE:    Notice of Approval for the Trailside Townhomes Site Plan Request

Dear Mr. Wheatley,

On November 17, 2022, the Planning Commission approved your request for a site plan for
a new multi-family residential development on the property at approximately 2142 E.
Brookings Drive, application SPR-058-2022, with the following comments or conditions:

1.     That all requirements of the Draper City Engineering, Public Works, Building,
       Planning, and Fire Divisions are satisfied throughout the development of the site
       and the construction of all buildings on the site, including permitting.
2.     That all requirements of the geotechnical report are satisfied throughout the
       development of the site and the construction of all buildings on the site.
       a.      Prior to obtaining a Land Disturbance Permit addressing the following: TG
               recommendation No. 2, in the December 13, 2021, TG Geotechnical
               Engineering Review No. 2 (TG, 2021), is implemented by the City: “Before
               commencement of mass grading, the City requires a project meeting to
               review grading and earthwork requirements.”
       b.      Prior to obtaining a Building Permit: Summary of CMT Earthwork
               Recommendations and Summary of CMT Geotechnical Recommendations
               for Plan Review in the December 13, 2021, TG Geotechnical Engineering
               Review No. 2, (TG, 2021), are implemented during Plan Review by the City.
       c.      Prior to obtaining a Land Disturbance Permit address the following: on page
               2 of the June 27, 2022, CMT document, CMT states:
               -       “We also understand that a storm brick system will be constructed at
                       the site to collect and convey stormwater. The storm brick system will
                       discharge water to a couple locations at the fill slope face and water
                       will not be allowed to drain into the ground below the system.”
               -       Based on a review of Sheet C3.0, Grading and Drainage Plan, and
                       Sheet C7.3, Construction Details, Trailside Townhomes, prepared by
                       Kimley Horn, dated June 6, 2022, it appears the proposed “stormbrick”




      801-576-6391    |   maryann.pickering @draperutah.gov        |   draperutah.gov
                      system will allow water to drain into the ground below the stormwater
                      system.
              -       If the “stormbrick” system is used as part of the development storm
                      drainage plan, before final permit approval by the City, TG
                      recommends the City REQUIRE CMT to update their global stability
                      analyses of the affected slopes to include seepage pressure derived
                      from the drainage water infiltrating the slope.
       d.     Prior to obtaining a Building Permit address the following: Under review
              comment (2) in the July 11, 2022, TG review letter, TG stated:
              -       “Should CMT rely on the Geopier/stone column specialty contractor
                      for the design analysis of the Geopiers/stone columns, TG
                      recommends the City request the specialty contractor provide the
                      design analysis for review.”
              In response to the comment, the July 12, 2022, CMT response letter stated:
              -       “We understand that a specialty contractor will provide settlement
                      analysis for Geopiers/stone columns.”
              -      Before final building plan permit approval, TG recommends the City
                     REQUIRE CMT to provide the settlement and bearing design analysis
                     for the Geopiers/stone columns for review.
3.     Prior to Land Disturbance Permit issuance, address the outstanding Planning
       Division redlines listed in Exhibit A of this report (attached).
4.     All hydrants and a form of acceptable temporary Fire Department Access to the site
       shall be installed and APPROVED by the Fire Department prior to the issuance of any
       Building Permits. If at any time during the building phase any of the hydrants or
       temporary Fire Department Access becomes non-compliant any and all permits
       could be revoked.
5.     No combustible construction shall be allowed prior to hydrant installation and
       testing by water purveyor. All hydrants must be operational prior to any
       combustible elements being received or delivered on building site.
6.     Fire sprinklers are required or an approved alternative shall be approved by the Fire
       Marshal prior to building permit issuance.
7.     Address the outstanding Fire Department redlines listed in Exhibit A (attached) prior
       to issuance of a building permit, unless designated otherwise.
8.     Address the outstanding Engineering Division redlines listed in Exhibit A (attached)
       prior to issuance of a Land Disturbance permit, unless designated otherwise.

Please be aware that the approval by Draper City in no way exempts the property from
complying with other requirements that may be in effect on the property such as CC&R’s,
zoning, subdivision, site plan, land disturbance, and building permit regulations, as
applicable. It is the responsibility of the property owner to ensure compliance with these
regulations.
With the approval granted under this notice, Section 9-5-090(J) of the Draper City Municipal
Code specifies that the approval of a site plan expires one year from the date of approval.
As such, the approval granted for the subject request will be rendered null and void if no
building permit has been issued for the project. The expiration of the approval can also be
avoided through an extension of the approval. A maximum of one extension for a period
of up to six months can be requested in writing prior to the date of expiration from the
Community Development Department.

As the applicant, this letter is intended as a courtesy to document the status of your
request. If you have questions, please contact me at maryann.pickering@draperutah.gov
or 801-576-6391.

Respectfully,




Maryann Pickering, AICP
Planner III
Community Development Department

Cc:    Fred Aegerter, Community Development Director
       Karen Burnett, GIS Manager
       Brien Maxfield, Senior Engineering Manager
       Tevai Haunga, Planning Coordinator
       Kim Graham, Building Coordinator
       Danna Hyer, Office Manager, Public Works Division
                                    EXHIBIT A
                               DEPARTMENT REVIEWS

REVIEWS ARE NOT MEANT TO BE AN ALL INCLUSIVE LIST OF POSSIBLE COMMENTS OR
CONDITIONS.

Planning Division Review.
1.    Prior to building permit issuance, amend the lighting plan to address all outstanding
      comments:
      a.      Per DCMC Section 9-20-080, the maximum reading at any property line
              cannot exceed 0.2. Please adjust for all property lines.
2.    Prior to building permit issuance, amend the architectural plans to address all
      outstanding comments:
      a.      Clarify the garage door styles to be used on the different buildings.

Engineering and Public Works Divisions Review.
1.    Plat has remaining and outstanding redlines and comments that need to be
      addressed prior to the Mylar being produced.
      a.     Update city storm drainage easements on plat for relocated city SD pipeline
             alignments, 20-foot on centerline.
      b.     Update public ROW dedication on Suncrest Drive as public right-of-way
             dedication (not dedicated to the city).
      c.     Formatting of the Line Table is no longer visible. Update.
      d.     Area swales are required to be protected by private drainage easement(s) to
             ensure continued operation and maintenance.
      e.     Identify 10-foot PU&DE along Brookings Drive and Suncrest Drive. Update
             legend to include PU&DE line type and reference.
2.    The area south of Rush Road (12180 South) appears to impact adjacent property
      owner with current design of infrastructure, including retaining walls on the
      property line. Provide written permission of adjacent property owner to allow
      grading and construction activities across the property line or update drawings to
      show all improvements, including grading remain onsite. Improvements have been
      relocated northward providing construction area, although wall type has not been
      determined. Comment will remain and be a condition of the Land Disturbance
      Permit (no construction offsite without written permission from adjacent property
      owner).
3.    Stormwater Maintenance Plan and Agreement are now required for every private
      storm drainage system, per DCMC 16-2-170. Submission of the maintenance plan is
      now required prior to site approval. The maintenance agreement is a condition of
      approval; it is required to be recorded and returned to the city prior to issuance of
      the Land Disturbance Permit for construction of the site. Maintenance Plan
      received with fourth submittal. No additional action required on this note until after
      site plan approval.
4.    Retaining walls are to comply with DCMC 9-27-085. Retaining walls are not reviewed
      or approved with the site plan / subdivision review and approval process. A
      separate building permit is required after site plan or subdivision approval is
      received. Informational comment – no action required prior to approval.
5.    For sites over five (5) acres, certified SWPPP is required. Contact Lucas Fowler, 801-
      576-6331, to verify compliance. Informational comment – no action required prior
      to approval.
6.    Once site plan has been approved, a Land Disturbance Permit is required prior to
      construction activities onsite. Permit is obtained through the Engineering Division
      and is required prior to Building Permit issuance. Informational comment – no
      action required prior to approval.
7.    Any work in the public right-of-way will require an Encroachment Permit obtained
      through the Engineering Division. Informational comment – no action required
      prior to approval.
8.    Update drainage report, specifically the tables, to ensure all area totals equal 19.37
      acres – i.e. the full site. (Comment repeated below.)
9.    Provide exhibit showing the location of the various links and nodes in the drainage
      report. There is no way to identify “SDCB 1” from the inlet calculations to its location
      onsite.
10.   Four inlets show an upstream spread of more than 6.75 feet with considerable
      bypass flow. Verify inlet spacing design to reduce spread and bypass flow. (Without
      having a link and node exhibit, it is impossible to determine if the bypass flow is an
      issue.)
11.   In the drainage report, it indicates the site is 19 acres but only 12 acres are being
      analyzed (developed). Indicate the remaining area will continue to meet pre-
      development discharges and is not being modified due to development. Add offsite
      areas to the calculation tables where the comparison between pre- and post-
      development flows are shown. Comment not addressed in fifth/sixth submittal
      (repeat of comment above).
12.   In the conduit table, pages 57 to 60 of 64 of the PDF, the design capacity of the
      conduit is less than the calculated flow, indicating the pipeline is surcharged. Open
      channel flow is required for SD design. Out of 38 conduits shown in table, 12 show
      surcharging. Verify pipeline design.
13.   On sheet 32 of 64 of the drainage report, the table shows the unit hydrograph, but
      is labeled “Cumulative Precip.” It appears that this column is multiplied by the
      precipitation depth at the top of the page. The next three columns appear to show
      a cumulative depth of flow, not a flow rate as labeled. There is only one peak
      intensity identified, but three different storms shown in the calculations. Verify
      labels and columns. Fifth/sixth submittal did not label columns or identify purpose
      of the calculation. The included graph shows flows topping 650 cfs for the 100-year,
      1-hour storm. Each table indicated flow rates decreased as the storm duration
      increased. Verify calculations and include information to determine data (page 33
      of 62 in the pdf). Add a narrative on this page describing the calculations.
14.    Grading plan modifies existing fill slope to steepen the slope to the maximum of
       2H:1V permitted by code. See cut and fill requirements in DCMC 18-3-060. Keying
       in the fill, benching, and other mass grading requirements are required. Update
       note 9 on the grading plans to include the final version of the CMT addendum.
       Addendum note added to plan note in fifth/sixth submittal.
15.    Add note to grading plan that all recommendations from Taylor Geotechnical and
       Simon Associates related to the geotechnical and geologic hazard report are
       required to be satisfied during site construction.
16.    Discharges at the top of the slopes show hatching to the bottom of the slope,
       without including the swale in the surface. Verify grading does not exceed the
       2H:1V maximum slope.
17.    There is the potential to have significant runoff from the site, units, and use areas to
       cause erosion issues on the fill slopes. Provide permanent erosion control to
       prevent erosion, such as swales, etc., along the top each slope. Comment
       addressed in fifth/sixth submittal.
18.    All roof drains shall discharge onto site and into private SD system. These
       discharges are required to be collected in swales and discharged to the SD system.
       This comment will be verified at the building permit review process. No additional
       action required on this comment.
19.    All improvements within the public right-of-way are required to meet Draper City
       standards and details. Informational comment – no additional action required.
20.    The waterline is shown outside the asphalt street on several street bends (Rush Rd
       & Horsetail Ln), specifically where the sidewalk was removed on the southern part
       of the site. Relocate to the street.
21.    Dimension utility cuts per Draper City Standard Detail ST-19 and ST-21.
       Informational comment. No additional response required at this time.

Geotechnical Review.
Based on our review of the July 12, 2022, CMT letter, TG recommends the City consider the
June 27, 2022, CMT addendum letter combined with the July 11, 2022, response letter
complete from a geotechnical engineering perspective with the following conditions.
1.     TG recommendation No. 2, in the December 13, 2021, TG Geotechnical Engineering
       Review No. 2 (TG, 2021), is implemented by the City: “Before commencement of
       mass grading, the City requires a project meeting to review grading and earthwork
       requirements.”
2.     Summary of CMT Earthwork Recommendations and Summary of CMT Geotechnical
       Recommendations for Plan Review in the December 13, 2021, TG Geotechnical
       Engineering Review No. 2, (TG, 2021), are implemented during Plan Review by the
       City.
3.     On page 2 of the June 27, 2022, CMT document, CMT states:
       -      “We also understand that a storm brick system will be constructed at the site
              to collect and convey stormwater. The storm brick system will discharge
              water to a couple locations at the fill slope face and water will not be allowed
              to drain into the ground below the system.”
       -      Based on a review of Sheet C3.0, Grading and Drainage Plan, and Sheet C7.3,
              Construction Details, Trailside Townhomes, prepared by Kimley Horn, dated
              June 6, 2022, it appears the proposed “stormbrick” system will allow water to
              drain into the ground below the stormwater system.
       -      If the “stormbrick” system is used as part of the development storm drainage
              plan, before final permit approval by the City, TG recommends the City
              REQUIRE CMT to update their global stability analyses of the affected slopes
              to include seepage pressure derived from the drainage water infiltrating the
              slope.
4.     Under review comment (2) in the July 11, 2022, TG review letter, TG stated:
       -      “Should CMT rely on the Geopier/stone column specialty contractor for the
              design analysis of the Geopiers/stone columns, TG recommends the City
              request the specialty contractor provide the design analysis for review.”
       In response to the comment, the July 12, 2022, CMT response letter stated:
       -      “We understand that a specialty contractor will provide settlement analysis
              for Geopiers/stone columns.”
       -      Before final building plan permit approval, TG recommends the City REQUIRE
              CMT to provide the settlement and bearing design analysis for the
              Geopiers/stone columns for review.

Geologic Hazards Review.
1.     Based substantially in and on the reliance of the technical documentation and
       assurances provided by CMT, including their findings and conclusions, it is SA’s
       opinion the August 26, 2021, CMT report sufficiently characterizes geologic
       conditions at the 19.36-acre parcel to satisfactorily:
       a.     Fulfill the requirements of the Draper City Geologic Hazard Ordinance and;
       b.     Evaluate slope stability at the site in accordance with Appendix C of the
              Draper City Geologic Hazards Ordinance.
2.     Based on the requirements of the Draper City Geologic Hazards Ordinance and the
       technical documentation provided by CMT, Simon Associates recommends Draper
       City consider the August 26, 2021, CMT Geologic Hazards Study and Geotechnical
       Engineering Report for Lots 1301 through 1306, Maple Hollow 10, 11, & 13 at
       Suncrest complete from a geologic perspective.

Fire Division Review.
1.     Fire Department Access is required. An unobstructed minimum road width of
       twenty-six feet exclusive of the shoulders and a minimum height of thirteen
       feet six inches shall be required. The road must be designed and maintained
       to support the imposed loads of emergency apparatus. The surface shall be
       able to provide all weather driving capabilities. The road shall have an inside
       turning radius of twenty eight feet. There shall be a maximum grade of 10%.
     Grades may be checked prior to building permits being issued. This project
     currently appears to meet this requirement field verification will be required.
     a.      D103.6.1 Roads 20 to 26 feet in width. Fire lane signs as specified in
             Section D103.6 shall be posted on both sides of fire apparatus access
             roads that are 20 to 26 feet wide (6096to 7925 mm).
             1) This section requires that parking be prohibited on both sides of
                    narrower fire apparatus access roads. Twenty feet (6096 mm) is
                    the appropriate width needed for two average-size fire trucks to
                    pass one another. If that width is reduced by parking even on
                    one side, it will be potentially difficult for a fire department to
                    undertake emergency operations in that area.
     b.      D103.6.2 Roads more than 26 feet in width. Fire lane signs as specified in
             Section D103.6 shall be posted on one side of fire apparatus access roads
             more than 26 feet wide (7925 mm) and less than 32 feet wide (9754 mm).
             1) Because this width is more than sufficient for maneuvering at least
                    two fire department vehicles by one another, parking would be
                    allowed on one side.
2.   D103.6 Signs. Where required by the fire code official, fire apparatus access
     roads shall be marked with permanent NO PARKING—FIRE LANE signs
     complying with Figure D103.6 (see below). Signs shall have a minimum
     dimension of 12 inches (305mm) wide by 18 inches (457mm) high and have
     red letters on a white reflective background. Signs shall be, posted on one or
     both sides of the fire apparatus road as required by Section D103.6.1 or
     D103.6.2. NO PARKING FIRE LANE signs shall be placed every 250 feet.
     Please show on plans and this project currently appears to meet this
     requirement.




3.   Fire Hydrants are required. Hydrants are required to be spaced at 450 feet as the
     hose lays, not as the crow flies for this project. Fire Flow of 2,000 GPM @ 20 PSI
     residual pressure.
4.   Hydrants and Site Access. All hydrants and a form of acceptable temporary
     Fire Department Access to the site shall be installed and APPROVED by the Fire
     Department prior to the issuance of any Building Permits. If at any time during
     the building phase any of the hydrants or temporary Fire Department Access
     becomes non-compliant any and all permits could be revoked.
5.   No combustible construction shall be allowed prior to hydrant installation and
     testing by water purveyor. All hydrants must be operational prior to any
     combustible elements being received or delivered on building site.
6.   IFC SECTION 3310 ACCESS FOR FIRE FIGHTING DURING CONSTRUCTION.
     a.      3310.1.1 Required Access. Approved vehicle access for firefighting shall
             be, provided to all construction or demolition sites. Vehicle access shall
             be provided to within 100 feet (30 480 mm) of temporary or permanent
             fire department connections. Either temporary or permanent roads,
             capable of supporting vehicle loading under all weather conditions, shall
             provide vehicle access. Vehicle access shall be, maintained until
             permanent fire apparatus access roads are available.
             1)     Until permanent fire apparatus access roads are constructed, fire-
                    fighting vehicle access is the means by which fire fighters gain
                    access to the construction or demolition site and building for fire
                    suppression and rescue operations. Such access is an integral
                    component of the fire prevention program. The site
                    superintendent or other person responsible for construction and
                    demolition operations is responsible for maintaining and policing
                    fire-fighter access routes, as pro-vided in Section 3308. Fire
                    apparatus must be able to get within 100 feet (30 480 mm) of any
                    installed fire department connection supplying water to
                    temporary or permanent fire protection systems. Access roads
                    must support the weight of the heaviest vehicle that might
                    respond. The weight requirements are avail-able from the local
                    fire department. All-weather sur-faces are required because the
                    responding fire department should not waste time moving snow
                    or trying to get out of mud.
7.   IFC CHAPTER 33 FIRE SAFETY DURING CONSTRUCTION AND DEMOLITION.
     This section of fire will be enforced. Please make sure the project is
     maintaining all aspects of this chapter during construction.
8.   Fire Sprinklers Required. A deferred submittal for a NFPA 13-D or 13-R fire
     sprinkler shop drawings are to be sent via email to: Don Buckley at
     fire.permits@draperutah.gov. A complete set of plans, with manufacturer cut
     sheets, and hydraulic calculations. Plans must be stamped by a NICET level III
     or better in Auto Sprinkler Layout. ALL FIRE PROTECTION PLANS REQUIRE 3rd
     PARTY REVIEW PRIOR TO BE SUBMITTED TO THE DRAPER FIRE DEPARTMENT.
9.   Fire Alarm Required if installing a NFPA 13-R Fire Sprinkler. A deferred
     submittal for fire alarm shop drawings are to be sent via email to the following
     to: Don Buckley at fire.permits@draperutah.gov. A complete set of plans, with
     manufacturer cut sheets, and battery calculations. Plans must be stamped by a
      NICET level III or better in Fire Alarm Systems. ALL FIRE ALARM PLANS REQUIRE
      3rd PARTY REVIEW PRIOR TO BE SUBMITTED TO THE DRAPER FIRE DEPARTMENT.
10.   Visible Addressing Required. New and existing buildings shall have approved
      address numbers plainly legible and visible from the street fronting the
      property. These numbers shall contrast with their background. All addresses
      for the above listed buildings will all need to be on the garage side as well as
      the front side.
11.   Plan approval or review shall not, be construed to relieve from or lessen the
      responsibility of any person designing, owning, operating or controlling any
      building. Damages to persons or property caused by defects, fire, improper
      installation, or other emergency conditions that occur in or on the building
      property shall not hold the Draper City Fire Department as assuming any
      liability.
12.   Visible Addressing Required. New and existing buildings shall have approved
      address numbers plainly legible and visible from the street fronting the
      property. These numbers shall contrast with their background. All addresses
      for the above listed buildings will all need to be on the garage side as well as the
      front side.

Parks and Recreation Division Review.
1.    Note that a potential alignment of the Bonneville Shoreline Trail is planned along
      the south side of the planned development. Final alignments to be studied and
      coordinated with property owner at a future date. Accommodations for future trail
      connections from Development may be considered by Developer.
