Coversheet
Item Coversheet MEMO To: Planning Commission
From: Maryann Pickering, AICP
CC:  Date: February 9, 2023
Re: Federal Heights Holdings LLC Zoning and Land Use Amendments Comments: This application is a request for approval for zoning and land use map amendments for approximately 1.19 acres located on the east side of 700 East, at approximately 11743 S. 700 East.  The property is currently zoned RA1 .  The applicant is requesting that the zoning and land use map amendments are approved to allow for an office to operate in the existing home on the site.
The property owners applied for a business license to locate a software company at the property in the existing home.  However, because the business owner does not intend to live at the home and will have employees, the zoning needs to be changed from RA1 to CN.  The business license is pending until the outcome of the zoning and land use map amendment request.  If the applicant is successful in obtain the land use and zoning map changes, they will have to obtain approval of an amended site plan to add the parking to the property. The findings are as follows: For approval:
1.   The proposed amendment is consistent with the goals, objectives and policies of the city's general plan;
2.   The proposed amendment is harmonious with the overall character of existing development in the vicinity of the subject property;
3.   The proposed amendment is consistent with the standards of any applicable overlay zone;
4.  T he proposed amendment should not adversely affect adjacent property;
5.  T he facilities and services intended to serve the subject property; including, but not limited to, roadways, parks and recreation facilities, police and fire protection, schools, stormwater drainage systems, water supplies, and wastewater and refuse collection, are adequate; and
6.   The proposed land use map amendment complies with DCMC Sections 9-2-020(F) and 9-5-060(D).
For denial:
1.   The proposed amendment is not consistent with the goals, objectives and policies of the city's general plan;
2.   The proposed amendment is not harmonious with the overall character of existing development in the vicinity of the subject property;
3.   The proposed amendment is not consistent with the standards of any applicable overlay zone;
4.   The proposed amendment is likely to adversely affect adjacent property;
5.   The facilities and services intended to serve the subject property; including, but not limited to, roadways, parks and recreation facilities, police and fire protection, schools, stormwater drainage systems, water supplies, and wastewater and refuse collection, are inadequate; and
6.   The proposed land use map amendment does not comply with DCMC Sections 9-2-020(F) and 9-5-060(D). ATTACHMENTS: Description Upload Date Type PC Staff Report 2/1/2023 Backup Material