MINUTES OF THE DRAPER CITY PLANNING COMMISSION MEETING HELD ON
THURSDAY, MARCH 23, 2023 IN THE DRAPER CITY COUNCIL CHAMBERS

PARTICIPATING: Andrew Adams, Chair
               Commission Member Craig Hawker
               Commission Member Mary Squire
               Commission Member DeLaina Tonks
               Commission Member Lisa Fowler
               Commission Member Gary Ogden
               Alternate Commission Member Susan Nixon
               Alternate Commission Member Tab Bingham
               Alternate Commission Member Kendra Shirey

STAFF PRESENT: Jennifer Jastremsky, Planning Manager
               Amie Salazar, Office Manager
               Fred Aegerter, Community Development Director
               Mike Barker, City Attorney
               Brien Maxfield, Senior Engineer Manager
               Tevai Haunga, Planner 1

6:30 PM Business Meeting

Chair Andrew Adams called the meeting to order.

1.     Action Item: Approve Planning Commission Meeting Minutes for November 17, 2022
       (Administrative Action).

There were discrepancies identified with the dates in the above meeting minutes that needed to be
resolved before granting approval.

Motion: Commissioner Squire moved to CONTINUE approval of the November 17, 2022,
Planning Commission Meeting Minutes to the next regular meeting.

Second: Commissioner Tonks.

Vote: A roll call was taken with the Commissioners voting 5-to-0 in favor of the motion.
Commissioners Squire, Tonks, Ogden, Hawker, and Fowler voted “Aye”. The motion passed
unanimously.

2.     Action Item: Approve Planning Commission Meeting Minutes for December 8, 2022
       (Administrative Action).

There were discrepancies identified with the dates in the above meeting minutes that needed to be
resolved before granting approval.

Motion: Commissioner Squire moved to CONTINUE approval of the December 8, 2022,
Planning Commission Meeting Minutes.
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
March 23, 2023
Page 2

Second: Commissioner Tonks.

Vote: A roll call was taken with the Commissioners voting 5-to-0 in favor of the motion.
Commissioners Squire, Tonks, Ogden, Hawker, and Fowler voted “Aye”. The motion passed
unanimously.

3.     Action Item: Approve Planning Commission Meeting Minutes for February 23, 2023
       (Administrative Action).

Changes to the minutes were reviewed and staff asked the Commission to include the modifications
in their motion.

Motion: Commissioner Fowler moved to APPROVE the February 23, 2023, Planning
Commission Meeting Minutes, as modified by Susan Nixon.

Second: Commissioner Ogden.

Vote: A roll call was taken with the Commissioners voting 5-to-0 in favor of the motion.
Commissioners Squire, Tonks, Ogden, Hawker, and Fowler voted “Aye”. The motion passed
unanimously.

4.     Public Hearing:       Perfectographie Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit
       (Administrative Action).
       On the Request of Marie Joy Perfecto for a Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit for
       Personal Care Services. The Site is approximately 0.19 Acres and is located at approximately
       14347 South Irisfield Circle. Known as Application #USE-223-2022, Staff Contact: Tevai
       Haunga, (801)576-6522, tevai.haunga@draperutah.gov.

Tevai Haunga, Planner I, presented the Staff Report and stated that the request is for a home
occupation Conditional Use Permit for Perfectographie. The vicinity map was displayed identifying
the location of the property at the base of South Mountain. An aerial map was presented to provide
a detailed view of the property. The property is designated as Residential Medium-Density and zoned
R3. The floor plan of the first floor of the home was displayed, which is where the studio will be
located. Operating hours will be on weekends from 10:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. on Saturdays and from
1:00 p.m. to 5:00 p.m. on Sundays. Parking for customers will be in the driveway.

The applicant, Marie Joy Perfecto, was present and available to answer questions.

Chair Adams opened the public hearing. There were no public comments. The public hearing was
closed.

Motion: Commissioner Fowler moved to APPROVE the Home Occupation Conditional Use
Permit as requested by Marie Joy Perfecto, Application USE-223-2022, subject to the following:

Conditions of Approval:
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
March 23, 2023
Page 3


         1.     That all requirements of the Draper City Engineering, Public Works, Building,
                Business Licensing, Planning, and Fire Divisions are satisfied throughout the
                operation of the business.

         2.     A Business License shall be maintained for the life of the business.

         3.     Customers shall park within the driveway. No on-street parking is allowed.

Finding for Approval:

         1.     Reasonable mitigation measures can be placed on the conditional use to alleviate
                anticipated detrimental effects.

Second: Commissioner Hawker.

Vote: A roll call was taken with the Commissioners voting 5-to-0 in favor of the motion.
Commissioners Squire, Tonks, Ogden, Hawker, and Fowler voted “Aye”. The motion passed
unanimously.

5.       Training: Development Process and Zoning Map Amendment Process.

Jennifer Jastremsky, Planning Manager, presented the training and described the General
Development Review process. She explained what applicants can expect when they wish to develop
property as well as the different types of applications. She also described the zoning map amendment
process. She noted that when applications come before the Commission they have gone through a
thorough staff review.

Ms. Jastremsky reported on the following steps in the Development Review Process:

     •   Step 1 is a Pre-Application Meeting. The Development Review Committee (“DRC”) consists
         of City Staff and provides potential applicants with a free 30-minute meeting to review their
         proposal and get feedback. It was noted that a Pre-Application Meeting is not required by
         Code.

     •   Step 2 is a formal application that includes civil drawings or building elevation plans that are
         reviewed by staff representatives from the DRC. Staff has three weeks to review an
         application when it is first submitted and two weeks for re-submittals. Applications go
         through the review process until redlines are addressed.

     •   Step 3 involves a review by the Planning Commission. Noticing requirements and preparation
         of the Staff Report are done in advance of this step. Some items, however, can be approved
         by the Zoning Administrator.
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
March 23, 2023
Page 4

         Chair Adams asked how often staff finds that the Code is not updated or codified even though
         it has been approved. He asked what the time delay would be between when something is
         changed and an applicant being able to see the change. Ms. Jastremsky stated that it is a
         relatively quick process. Once the City Council approves a text amendment it is signed and
         becomes official but it takes a few weeks to get onto the City’s website. American Legal adds
         red lettering at the beginning of the section indicating that there is an ordinance affecting it
         along with a link to the ordinance. That is done within a few days of approval. Ms. Jastremsky
         clarified that applications are vested in what the Code was on the day the application is
         submitted.

     •   Step 4 involves the review of items requiring City Council approval. Noticing and a an
         ordinance are required as well as the Staff Report.

     •   Step 5 involves additional approvals such as Land Disturbance Permits or Building Permits.
         Approval from outside agencies may also be required such as South Valley Sewer or
         WaterPro.

Ms. Jastremsky next reviewed Zoning Map Amendments and addressed State law and zoning
authority. She explained that State law allows the City to divide the territory into zoning districts and
regulate the uses and construction within those areas. It also allows them to look at geologic and
floodplain hazard areas and provide ordinances regulating them. Rules within each zoning district
shall be uniform for the individual buildings within the district but there can be different regulations
for individual zones. Certain uses can be exempted such as public utility infrastructure from zoning
standards.

The City’s Zoning Map was displayed. The City Council, Planning Commission, or a property owner
can request a rezone of their property and it takes two to three months to go through the process.
Agendas are set two weeks in advance to allow for proper noticing prior to Planning Commission and
City Council Meetings. Once approved by the City Council, the ordinance is signed by the Mayor,
attested to by the City Recorder, and the roll vote of the Council Members is marked on the ordinance
itself. It is filed with the City Clerk’s Office and provided to the City’s GIS Team who updates the
map.

The Shadow Mountain Subdivision, which was approved in 2020, was used to show the types of
documentation submitted. The various reviewing City departments were identified. In response to a
question raised, Ms. Jastremsky stated that on occasion an applicant requires more than one Pre-
Application Meeting before submitting an application.

For residents who inquire about the process, City Attorney, Mike Barker, encourages them to contact
staff.

6.       Adjournment.

Motion: Commissioner Hawker moved to ADJOURN. The motion passed with the unanimous
consent of the Commission.
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
March 23, 2023
Page 5


The meeting adjourned at 6:58 p.m.
