                              Development Review Committee
                                   1020 East Pioneer Road
                                     Draper, UT 84020
                                        August 15, 2023

To:             Draper City Planning Commission
                Business Date: August 24, 2023

From:           Development Review Committee

Prepared By: Jennifer Jastremsky, AICP, Planning Manager/Zoning Administrator
             Planning Division
             Community Development Department
             801-576-6328, jennifer.jastremsky@draperutah.gov

Re:     Fitzgerald Property – Amended Development Agreement Request
        Application No.: 23-4505-DA
        Applicant:        Brad Mackay, representing Ivory Development
        Project Location: 1085 East 12650 South
        Current Zoning: R5 (Single Family Residential) Zone
        Acreage:          22.39 Acres (Approximately 975,308 ft2)
        Request:          Request for approval of an amendment to the Fitzgerald Property
                          Development Agreement to eliminate the connection to 12600
                          South, adjust setbacks for Accessory Dwelling Units, and create
                          detention basin design standards.



BACKGROUND AND SUMMARY
This application is a request for approval of an Amended Development Agreement for
approximately 22.39 acres located on the north side of 12650 South, at approximately 1085
East 12650 South (Exhibit B & C). The property is currently zoned R5. The applicant is
requesting that an Amended Development Agreement be approved to eliminate the
connection to 12600 South, adjust setbacks for Accessory Dwelling Units, and create
detention basin design standards.

The property has historically been used for agricultural uses. All structures on the property
were demolished earlier this year. The City Council approved a Development Agreement on
the property on July 19, 2022. The agreement allows for 59 single family residential lots
with at least 9,000 square feet in size and an additional 3 single family residential lots with
at least 20,000 square feet in size. At that time the Council also approved a Zoning Map



Fitzgerald Property                                                    App. # 23-4505-DA
Amended Development Agreement Request          1
Amendment to the R5 zone and Land Use Map Amendment to the Residential
Medium/High Density designation.

The applicant obtained preliminary subdivision plat approval on July 13, 2023 from the
Planning Commission. That approval included the following condition of approval. This
application will address the condition.

        1.      Amend the drawings with the final subdivision plat submission to either: 1)
                provide a road connection to 12600 S per DCMC Section 17-5-030(A), 2)
                provide a cul-de-sac or other alternative turnaround with a paved and fenced
                pedestrian access to 12600 S per DCMC Section 17-5-030(F), or 3) amend the
                development agreement to provide another alternative.



ANALYSIS

General Plan and Zoning.

 Table 1                 General Plan and Zoning Designations                          Exhibit
 Existing Land Use       Residential Medium/High Density                               Exhibit D
 Current Zoning          R5                                                            Exhibit E
 Proposed Use            Single-family Residential
 Adjacent Zoning
    East                 RA1 (Residential Agricultural, 40,000 sq ft lot
                         minimums), TC (Town Center)
     West                RA2 (Residential Agricultural, 20,000 sq ft lot
                         minimums), TC
     North               RA1, TC, OS (Open Space)
     South               RA1, RA2

The Residential Medium/High Density land use designation is characterized as follows:




Fitzgerald Property                                                        App. # 23-4505-DA
Amended Development Agreement Request            2
According to Draper City Municipal Code (DCMC) Section 9-8-020 the purpose of the R5
zone is to “permit medium to medium-high density residential developments with single-family
homes. These zones are intended to foster thriving and well maintained neighborhoods that
allow upscale single-family homes on smaller lots that require less maintenance and provide a
balanced lifestyle.”

Development Agreement.
The proposed Amended Development Agreement (Exhibit G) covers three changes. These
modifications are to the DCMC standards and do not change sections within the existing
Development Agreement (Exhibit F).

Street Connection.
The preliminary plat can be found in Exhibit H of this report. The concept plan included in
the original Development Agreement showed one access point to 12650 South and one to
12600 S. The applicant is proposing to provide two access points to 12650 South and not
connect to 12600 South. After reviewing the utility and drainage design, a road to 12650
South functions better given the grading of the site. The proposed access points comply
with code in regards to engineering standards and the International Fire Code (IFC). What is
under discussion is how the closure of 12600 South should be designed.

When 12600 South was constructed it was built as a stub road, and intended for future
connection. DCMC Section 17-5-030(A) requires connection to existing streets, however,



Fitzgerald Property                                                    App. # 23-4505-DA
Amended Development Agreement Request         3
DCMC Section 17-5-030(F) allows for a cul-de-sac or other alternatively designed dead end
to be established when the connection is not feasible. The DCMC does require such dead
ends to have a cul-de-sac or other alternative turnaround, and a fenced pedestrian access.

        17-5-030: STREETS:
        A. Location: Streets shall be located within a subdivision so they connect with existing
        streets. If the adjoining land is zoned for residential use, streets shall be located so that
        the adjacent land may be most efficiently subdivided.
        F. Cul-De-Sacs: In order to reduce vehicle trips and facilitate a more pedestrian friendly
        subdivision design, the use of cul-de- sacs within subdivisions shall be permitted only
        when through road connections are not feasible due to topography, adjacent or
        surrounding uses, parcel size or shape or other physical constraints to development.
        When cul-de-sacs are approved, pedestrian pathways shall be provided from the cul-de-
        sac to other streets, pathways or trails as deemed appropriate by the City. When cul-de-
        sacs with pedestrian pathways are proposed or required, they shall be designed in
        compliance with City standards and specifications and shall be designed so that the
        length of the pathway is minimized and visibility into the pathway is maximized. As a
        minimum development standard for the pedestrian pathway, the developer shall
        construct a dedicated, paved surface eight feet (8') in width. In addition, the developer
        shall install four foot (4') to six foot (6') high, as determined by the City, open or see
        through fencing along both sides of the pathway in conjunction with the construction of
        the pathway. The required fence shall be of maintenance free materials and shall add to
        the aesthetic quality of the surrounding development and land use. Required pathway
        improvements shall be bonded along with the bonding of right-of- way improvements.
        When approved, permanent cul-de-sacs shall serve no more than thirty (30) single-family
        lots or units, or one hundred (100) multi-family units, and must be terminated with a
        turnaround of not less than one hundred feet (100') of right- of-way in diameter, or an
        alternative turnaround design which meets the design criteria of the Fire Department,
        City Engineer, and Public Works Director. Downhill cul-de-sacs shall not be approved
        unless adequate drainage is provided.

The proposed design does not contain a turnaround on 12600 South. The applicant is
proposing to instead install a 20-foot wide trail and fire access easement on one of the lots.
The applicant has stated this will allow emergency access and pedestrian access between
12600 South and the proposed subdivision. Bollards would be in placed on either end of
the easement to ensure it is only used during emergency situations.

Staff has reviewed the plans and determined that fire and other emergency services would
not use the fire access easement and the easement would not function as a turnaround for
City services like snow plow or garbage removal. Staff has asked for an 80-foot wide cul-de-
sac at the end of 12600 South. This cul-de-sac would not contain parkstrip or sidewalk, and
would function as a vehicular turnaround at the end of 12600 South. An alternative design
would be a hammerhead turnaround. The City currently does not have any approved



Fitzgerald Property                                                         App. # 23-4505-DA
Amended Development Agreement Request             4
hammerhead turnaround designs for public roads.

ADUs.
The applicant is planning on building several Detached Accessory Dwelling Units (D-ADU) in
the subdivision. Per DCMC Section 9-31-020(B) D-ADUs are only allowed on lots that are
12,000 square feet in size or larger. The smallest lot within the proposed subdivision is
9,120 square feet. The average lot size is 11,671 square feet. The development agreement
would allow a D-ADU on any of the lots within the subdivision.

        9-31-020: SCOPE:
        The requirements of this chapter shall apply to all ADUs within the city.
        B. D-ADUs shall be a permitted use in all primary residential zoning districts, master
        planned community zones (MPC), and residential special districts (RSD) on individual lots
        or parcels twelve-thousand square feet (12,000 ft²) or greater in size that contain no
        more than one single-family dwelling.

In addition, the development agreement would modify the required setbacks for D-ADUs.
Per DCMC Section 9-31-040, D-ADUs are required to comply with the same setback
standards as the main building. For the R5 zone setbacks are required to be a minimum of
25-foot front, 20-foot rear, and 8-foot side. The Amended Development Agreement
proposes to make the rear and side setbacks 5-feet for D-ADUs.

        9-31-040: D-ADU DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS:
        The development standards set forth in this section shall apply to each D-ADU:
        B. Conditions: A D-ADU shall comply with the applicable requirements of section 9-31-
        030 and all of the following conditions:
        2. A D-ADU shall comply with the same setbacks for a main building in the zoning
        district in which the lot or parcel is located.

Staff has reviewed the request and finds it reasonable, but would recommend reducing the
maximum building height allowed for D-ADUs. A D-ADU is allowed the same maximum
building height as the main dwelling, 35-feet. Given the closer proximity to property line
proposed, it would make sense to reduce the allowed building height to 2-stories. This will
prevent any D-ADU structures built at 3-stories, or the 35-feet height limit.

Detention Basin.
The proposed plat includes a 13,037 square foot detention basin. This basin is proposed to
be dedicated to Draper City. Staff is proposing language within the Amended Development
Agreement that will outline design standards for the basin. The Public Works Department
has asked for minimal maintenance design, such as decorative stamped concrete and a
fence.

Applicant Review.



Fitzgerald Property                                                      App. # 23-4505-DA
Amended Development Agreement Request           5
The applicant has been provided the redline comments and is evaluating them. They plan
on presenting potential changes to the draft agreement at the Planning Commission
meeting.

Criteria For Approval.
DCMC does not contain criteria for review and potential approval of a Development
Agreement. It does, however; contain a list of items that are required as part of an
Agreement and limitations to a Development Agreement, as found in DCMC Section 9-5-
200(C) and (D). This section depicts the required materials for such requests as:

        C.    Procedure: All development agreements, upon proper execution, shall be recorded
              with the respective County Recorder's Office, shall run with the land, and shall be
              binding on all successors in the ownership of the affected property. A development
              agreement shall contain, at a minimum, the following:
               1. A legal description of the land subject to the development agreement.
               2. The restrictions or conditions to be attached to the property including
                   development standards and the provision of public facilities.
               3. The configuration of the project as shown on a project master plan.
               4. A statement of the benefits and value the development agreement will have
                   for the City as a whole, including, but not limited to, assurances of design
                   standards, dedication and improvement of open space, parks, trails,
                   amenities, or infrastructure such as public rights-of-way or utilities.
               5. The time frames for performance by the parties.
               6. A description of the various City approvals required before the
                   commencement of construction and other procedures that will be required
                   after approval of the development agreement.
               7. Provisions for enforcement of the terms and conditions of the development
                   agreement.
               8. Provisions for making amendments to the development agreement.
               9. The time limitation of the agreement.
               10. Such other terms as may be proposed and agreed to between the City and
                   developer or subdivider.
        D. Limitations:
               1. A development agreement under this section may not:
                   a. Limit the City’s authority in the future to:
                       i. Enact a land use regulation; or
                       ii. Take any action allowed under Utah Code Annotated Section 10-8-84,
                           as amended;
                   b. Require the City to change the zoning designation of an area of land
                       within the City in the future; or
                   c. Contain a term that conflicts with, or is different from, a standard set forth
                       in an existing land use regulation that governs the area subject to the
                       development agreement, unless the city council approves the development



Fitzgerald Property                                                        App. # 23-4505-DA
Amended Development Agreement Request            6
                       agreement in accordance with the same procedures for enacting a land
                       use regulation under Utah Code Annotated Section 10-9a-502, including a
                       review and recommendation from the planning commission and a public
                       hearing.
                2. The City may not require a development agreement as the only option for
                   developing land within the City.
                3. To the extent that a development agreement does not specifically address a
                   matter or concern related to land use or development, the matter or concern
                   is governed by;
                   a. Utah Code Annotated 10-9a-530, as amended; and
                   b. Applicable land use regulations of this Title.



REVIEWS

Planning Division Review. The Draper City Planning Division has completed their review of
the Amended Development Agreement submission. Comments from this division, if any,
can be found in Exhibit A.

Engineering and Public Works Divisions Review. The Draper City Engineering and Public
Works Divisions have completed their reviews of the Amended Development Agreement
submission. Comments from these divisions, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Building Division Review. The Draper City Building Division has completed their review of the
Amended Development Agreement submission. Comments from this division, if any, can
be found in Exhibit A.

Fire Division Review. The Draper City Fire Marshal has completed his review of the Amended
Development Agreement submission. Comments from this division, if any, can be found in
Exhibit A.

Legal Division Review. The Draper City Attorney has completed his review of the Amended
Development Agreement submission. Comments from this division, if any, can be found in
Exhibit A.

Noticing. Notice has been properly issued in the manner outlined in the City and State
Codes.



STAFF RECOMMENDATION

Staff recommends that the Planning Commission review the request based on the findings
listed below and the criteria for approval, or denial as listed within the staff report. The



Fitzgerald Property                                                    App. # 23-4505-DA
Amended Development Agreement Request          7
Planning Commission should also review the request, hear from the applicant, and receive
public comment prior to making a decision.

If the Planning Commission decides to forward a positive recommendation, staff
recommends they include the following conditions of approval:

        1.      That Section 4 of the agreement be amended to require an 80-foot diameter
                cul-de-sac be installed at the end of 12600 South.
        2.      That Section 3 is modified to clarify that the reduced setbacks are for D-ADUs
                only.
        3.      Add a Section that states that D-ADU structures are limited to 2-stories in
                height.
        4.      The agreement shall include the staff proposed Section 5.

The findings for positive recommendation as are follows:

        1.      The proposed amended development agreement complies with DCMC
                Section 9-5-200(C) and (D).
        2.      The proposed conditions and changes to the agreement will protect the
                health, safety, and welfare of properties along 12600 South by providing a
                turnaround design which meets the design criteria of the Fire Department,
                City Engineer, and the Public Works Director per DCMC Section 17-5-030(F).

The findings for negative recommendation as are follows:

        1.      The proposed amended development agreement does not address the
                potential health, safety, and welfare impacts to properties along 12600 South
                that could result if a cul-de-sac turnaround is not provided. Such turnaround
                is needed per DCMC Section 17-5-030(F).



MODEL MOTIONS

Sample Motion for Approval – I move that we forward a positive recommendation for the
Amended Development Agreement, as requested by Brad Mackay, representing Ivory
Development for Fitzgerald Property Amended Development Agreement, application 23-
4505-DA, based on the findings and subject to the conditions listed in the Staff Report
dated August 15, 2023.

Sample Motion for Modified Approval– I move that we forward a positive recommendation
for the Amended Development Agreement, as requested by Brad Mackay, representing
Ivory Development for Fitzgerald Property Amended Development Agreement, application




Fitzgerald Property                                                    App. # 23-4505-DA
Amended Development Agreement Request          8
23-4505-DA, based on the findings and subject to the conditions listed in the Staff Report
dated August 15, 2023and as modified by the findings and conditions below:

        1. List any additional findings and conditions…

Sample Motion for Denial – I move that we forward a negative recommendation for the
Amended Development Agreement, as requested by Brad Mackay, representing Ivory
Development for Fitzgerald Property Amended Development Agreement, application 23-
4505-DA, based on the findings listed in the Staff Report dated August 15, 2023, and as
modified by the findings below:

        1. List additional findings…




Fitzgerald Property                                                  App. # 23-4505-DA
Amended Development Agreement Request         9
                   DEVELOPMENT REVIEW COMMITTEE ACKNOWLEDGEMENT

We, the undersigned, as duly appointed members of the Draper City Development Review
Committee, do acknowledge that the application which provides the subject for this staff
report has been reviewed by the Committee and has been found to be appropriate for
review by the Draper City Planning Commission and/or City Council.



                                                                                                 Digitally signed by Jennifer Jastremsky
                   Digitally signed by Brien Maxfield
                                                                                                 DN: C=US,
                   DN: C=US,
                                                                                                 E=jennifer.jastremsky@draperutah.gov,
  Brien Maxfield   E=brien.maxfield@draperutah.gov,
                   O=Draper, OU=Public Works -
                                                                           Jennifer Jastremsky   O=Planning Division, OU=Draper City,
                                                                                                 CN=Jennifer Jastremsky
__________________________________                                        __________________________________
                   Engineering, CN=Brien Maxfield
                   Date: 2023.08.21 10:57:56-06'00'                                              Date: 2023.08.21 13:52:35-06'00'



Draper City Public Works Department                                       Draper City Planning Division

                                                                                                 Digitally signed by Mike
                      Digitally signed by Don Buckley
                      DN: C=US, E=don.buckley@draper.ut.us,               Mike Barker Barker
                                                                                      Date: 2023.08.22 14:30:18
Don   Buckley         O=Draper City Fire Department, OU=Fire

__________________________________
                      Marshal, CN=Don Buckley
                      Date: 2023.08.18 08:56:08-06'00'
                                                                                                 -06'00'
                                                                          __________________________________
Draper City Fire Department                                               Draper City Legal Counsel


                      Digitally signed by Keith Collier
                      DN: C=US,

  Keith Collier       E=keith.collier@draperutah.gov, O=Draper

__________________________________
                      City, OU=Building Official, CN=Keith Collier
                      Date: 2023.08.18 07:30:52-06'00'



Draper City Building Division




Fitzgerald Property                                                                                    App. # 23-4505-DA
Amended Development Agreement Request                                10
                                      EXHIBIT A
                                 DEPARTMENT REVIEWS

REVIEWS ARE NOT MEANT TO BE AN ALL INCLUSIVE LIST OF POSSIBLE COMMENTS OR
CONDITIONS.

Planning Division Review.

       1.     Current code allows D-ADUs on lots that are 12,000 square feet or more.
              Modify [Section 2] to state lots under 12,000 sq ft also qualify for a D-ADU.
              There isn’t a limit on the number of lots with in a subdivision that allows for
              D-ADUs. Our code does state that if a property builds a D-ADU they forfeit
              the right to have an I-ADU. Staff does appreciate the last two sentences.
       2.     [Section 3] needs to state that modified setbacks only apply to D-ADUs. The
              way this is written it would modify all rear and side setbacks for all dwelling
              units to 5’, including the primary units. Current setbacks for primary units are
              20’ rear and 8’ sides. I’m not sure if Council would be supportive of that. If the
              intent is for this to allow D-ADUs to have a rear and side setback of 5’ rather
              than 20’/8’ then this needs to state that.
       3.     Staff recommends a reduced height for D-ADUs. The code allows D-ADUs to
              have a 35-foot height, same as the primary unit. Having only a 10’ separation
              between that tall of buildings probably wouldn’t be supported. Recommend
              limiting height to 2 stories in exchange for the reduced setback.
       4.     Developer needs to provide a suitable turnaround at the eastern terminus of
              12600 S. We are open to a reduced width cul-de-sac design, such as 80-feet
              of drivable surface and no parkstrip or sidewalk. Lots 101 and 102 are not
              required to be 20,000 square feet in size and have room to loose in order to
              allow for the turn around.

Engineering and Public Works Divisions Review.

       1.     We do not have a standard public hammerhead. Typically only private streets
              are permitted to use hammerheads. We do not plow hammerheads because
              of the difficulty with the size of the city’s plows. A modified cul-de-sac is
              allowed.
       2.     Add a Section 5 stating: “Public Storm Water Detention Basin. Whereas the
              Developer desires to dedicate to the city the storm water detention basin,
              located in Parcel A of the subdivision, the construction of the basin is
              required to be of minimal maintenance requirements, such as decorative,
              stamped concrete, and fenced in such a way as to provide safety and security
              of the basin and its operation and maintenance activities. The fencing shall
              not be installed within the sight triangles and clear view areas where Parcel A
has streets on three sides. The City desires a facility with minimal
maintenance requirements, such as minimal weed growth potential, garbage
or trash collection, et cetera. Fencing shall have a twenty-foot wide access
gate to the basin.”
  EXHIBIT B
VICINITY MAP
 EXHIBIT C
AERIAL MAP
  EXHIBIT D
LAND USE MAP
 EXHIBIT E
ZONING MAP
            EXHIBIT F
EXISTING DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT
              ..
                                                                                A-22-162



WHEN RECORDED, RETURN TO:                         13994282   B: 11361 P: 3406    Total Pages: 32
                                                  08/02/2022 03:08 PM By: zjorgensen Fees: $0.00
                                                  Rashelle Hobbs,Recorder, Salt Lake County, Utah
                                                  Return To: CITY OF DRAPER
                                                  1020 E PIONEER RD DRAPER, UT 84020
Draper City Recorder
1020 East Pioneer Road                            1111 Ir~ ~I lffl~ ~rJnl',t-M'r.t1(~ ,~l'M\I 11111
Draper, UT 84020



                        MASTER DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT
                                     FOR
                             FITZGERALD PROPERTY

       THIS MASTER DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT is made and entered into as of the

19th day of July, 2022, by and between Draper City, a Utah municipality and Ivory Development,

LLC.

                                          RECITALS

       A. The capitalized terms used in this MDA and in these Recitals are defined in Section

1.2, below.

       B. Master Developer is developing the Property.

       C. Master Developer is the authorized agent of the Property's owners.

       D. Master Developer and the City desire that the Property be developed in a unified and

consistent fashion pursuant to the Master Plan.

       E. The Parties acknowledge that development of the Property pursuant to this MDA will

result in significant planning and economic benefits to the City and its residents by, among other

things requiring orderly development of the Property as a single-family residential development

known as Bainbridge and increasing property tax and other revenues to the City based on

improvements to be constructed on the Property.

       F. The Parties desire to enter into this MDA to specify the rights and responsibilities of

                                          Page 2 of32
the Master Developer to develop the Property as expressed in this MDA and the rights and

responsibilities of the City to allow and regulate such development pursuant to the requirements

of this MDA.

          G. The Parties understand and intend that this MDA is a "development agreement" within

the meaning of, and entered into pursuant to the terms of Utah Code Ann. §10-9a-101 (2018) et

seq.

          H. This MDA conforms with the intent of the City's General Plan and the Zoning.

          NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the mutual covenants contained herein, and

other good and valuable consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of which is hereby

acknowledged, the City and Master Developer hereby agree to the following:

                                                TERMS

       1. Incorporation of Recitals and Exhibits/ Definitions.

          1.1. Incorporation. The foregoing Recitals and Exhibits ''A" - "C" are hereby

          incorporated into this MDA.

          1.2. Definitions. As used in this MDA, the words and phrases specified below shall have

          the following meanings:

              1.2.1. Act means the Municipal Land Use, Development, and Management Act, Utah

              Code Ann.§ 10-9a-101 (2022), et seq.

              1.2.2. Applicant means a person or entity submitting a Development Application.

              1.2.3. Buildout means the completion of all of the development on the entire Project

              in accordance with the approved plans and the sale of all residential lots to end users.

              1.2.4. City means Draper City, a Utah municipality.

                                              Page 3 of32
1.2.5. City Consultants means those outside consultants employed by the City in

various specialized disciplines such as traffic, hydrology or drainage for reviewing

certain aspects of the development of the Project.

1.2.6. City's Future Laws means the ordinances, policies, standards, and procedures

which may be in effect as of a particular time in the future when a Development

Application is submitted for a part of the Project and which may or may not be

applicable to the Development Application depending upon the provisions of this

MDA.

1.2. 7. City's Vested Laws means the ordinances, policies, standards and procedures

of the City in effect as of the date of this MDA, a digital copy of which is attached as

Exhibit "C".

1.2.8. Council means the elected City Council of the City.

1.2.9. Default means a material breach of this MDA as specified herein.

1.2.10. Denied means a formal denial issued by the final decision-making body of the

City for a particular type of Development Application but does not include review

comments or ''redlines" by City staff.

1.2.11. Development means the development of a portion of the Property pursuant to

an approved Development Application.

1.2.12. Development Application means an application to the City for development

of a portion of the Project including a Subdivision or any other permit, certificate or

other authorization from the City required for development of the Project.



                                Page 4 of32
1.2.13. Final Plat means the recordable map or other graphical representation of land

prepared in accordance with Utah Code Ann. § 10-9a-603 (2022), or any successor

provision, and approved by the City, effectuating a Subdivision of any portion of the

Project.

1.2.14. Master Developer Ivory Development, LLC, and its assignees or transferees

as permitted by this MDA.

1.2.15. Master Plan means the conceptual layout for Residential Dwelling Units and

Public Infrastructure for the Project as depicted in Exhibit "B".

1.2.16. Maximum Residential Units means the development on the Property of

sixty-two (62) Residential Dwelling Units with fifty-nine (59) lots of at least 9,000

square feet and three (3) lots of at least 20,000 square feet.

1.2.17. MDA means this Master Development Agreement including all of its

Exhibits.

1.2.18. Notice means any notice to or from any Party that is either required or

permitted to be given to another party.

1.2.19. Open Space shall have the meaning specified in Section 9-3-040 of the City's

Vested Laws.

1.2.20. Outsourc[e][ing] means the process of the City contracting with City

Consultants or paying overtime to City employees to provide technical support in the

review and approval of the various aspects of a Development Application as is more

fully set out in this MDA.



                                 Page 5 of32
1.2.21. Parcel means a portion of the Property that is created by the Master

Developer that is not an individually developable lot as specified in Section 5.9.

1.2.22. Party/Parties means, in the singular, Master Developer or the City; in the

plural Master Developer and the City.

1.2.23. Project means the total development to be constructed on the Property

pursuant to this MDA with the associated public and private facilities, and all of the

other aspects approved as part of this MDA.

1.2.24. Property means the real property owned by and to be developed by Master

Developer more fully described in Exhibit "A".

1.2.25. Public Infrastructure means those elements of infrastructure that are planned

to be dedicated to the City as a condition of the approval of a Development

Application.

1.2.26. Residential Dwelling Unit means a structure or portion thereof designed and

intended for use as a single-family residence as illustrated on the Master Plan.

1.2.27. Subdeveloper means a person or an entity not "related" (as defined by

Section 165 of the Internal Revenue Code) to Master Developer which purchases a

Parcel for development.

1.2.28. Subdivision means the division of any portion of the Project into developable

lots pursuant to State Law and/or the Zoning Ordinance.

1.2.29. Subdivision Application means the application to create a Subdivision.

1.2.30. Zoning means the zone for the Property adopted by the City on July _ _,

2022.

                                Page 6 of32
       1.2.31. Zoning Ordinance means the City's Land Use and Development Ordinance

      adopted pursuant to the Act that was in effect as of the date of this MDA as a part of

      the City's Vested Laws.

2. Development of the Proiect.

   2.1. Compliance with the Master Plan and this MDA. Development of the Project

   shall be in accordance with the City's Vested Laws, the City's Future Laws (to the extent

   that these are applicable as otherwise specified in this MDA), the Master Plan and this

   MDA.

   2.2. Maximum Residential Units. At Buildout of the Project, Master Developer shall be

   entitled to have developed the Maximum Residential Units as specified in and pursuant to

   this MDA of the type, size, and in the general location as shown on the Master Plan.

   2.3. Limitation and No Guarantee. Master Developer acknowledges that the

   development of the Maximum Residential Units and every other aspect of the Master

   Plan requires that each Development Application comply with the City's Vested Laws

   including, without limitation, the City's geologic hazards requirements. The City's entry

   into this MDA does not guarantee that the Master Developer will be able to construct the

   Maximum Residential Units or any other aspect of the Project until and unless all the

   applicable requirements of the City's Vested Laws are complied with. The City agrees

   and acknowledges that if Master Developer submits a Development Application

   complying with the City's Vested Laws, the City has no legislative discretion to deny the

   development Application.

   2.4. Accounting for Residential Units for Parcels Sold to Subdevelopers. Any Parcel
                                      Page 7 of32
   sold by Master Developer to a Subdeveloper shall include the transfer of a specified

   portion of the Maximum Residential Units sold with the Parcel.

3. Vested Rights.

   3.1. Vested Rights Granted by Approval of this MDA. To the maximum extent

   permissible under the laws of Utah and the United States and at equity, the Parties intend

   that this MDA grants Master Developer all rights to develop the Project in fulfillment of

   this MDA, the City's Vested Laws, the Zoning and the Master Plan except as specifically

   provided herein. The Parties specifically intend that this MDA grant to Master Developer

   "vested rights" as that term is construed in Utah's common law and pursuant to Utah

   Code Ann. § 10-9a-509 (2022).

   3.2. Exceptions. The restrictions on the applicability of the City's Future Laws to the

   Project as specified in Section 3.1 are subject to only the following exceptions:

       3.2.1. Master Developer Agreement. City's Future Laws that Master Developer

       agrees in writing to the application thereof to the Project;

       3.2.2. State and Federal Compliance. City's Future Laws which are generally

       applicable to all properties in the City and which are required to comply with state or

       federal laws and regulations affecting the Project;

       3.2.3. Codes. Any City's Future Laws that are updates or amendments to existing

       building, plumbing, mechanical, electrical, dangerous buildings, drainage, fire, or

       similar construction or safety related codes, such as the International Building Code,

       the APWA Specifications, AAHSTO Standards, the Manual of Uniform Traffic

       Control Devices or similar standards that are generated by a nationally or statewide

                                        Page 8 of32
          recognized construction/safety organization, or by the State or federal governments

          and are required to meet legitimate concerns related to public health, safety or

          welfare;

          3.2.4. Taxes. Taxes, or modifications thereto, so long as such taxes are lawfully

          imposed and charged uniformly by the City to all properties, applications, persons

          and entities similarly situated;

          3.2.5. Fees. Changes to the amounts of fees for the processing of Development

          Applications that are generally applicable to all development within the City (or a

          portion of the City as specified in the lawfully adopted fee schedule) and which are

          adopted pursuant to State law;

          3.2.6. Impact Fees. Impact Fees or modifications thereto which are lawfully adopted,

          and imposed by the City and which meet all requirements of the U. S. Constitution,

          Utah Constitution, law and applicable statutes, including but not limited to Utah Code

          Ann. Section 1 l-36a-101 (2022) et seq.;

          3.2.7. Compelling, Countervailing Interest. Laws, rules or regulations that the City's

          land use authority finds, on the record, are necessary to avoid jeopardizing a

          compelling, countervailing public interest pursuant to Utah Code Ann. § 10-9a-

           509(1 )(a)(ii) (2022).

   4. Term of Agreement. The effective date of this MDA shall be July _ , 2022. This

MDA shall expire July - ~ 2032. If Master Developer has not been declared to be currently

in Default as of July _ _, 2032, (and if any such Default is not being cured) then this MDA

shall be automatically extended until July _ _ _ 2037. This MDA shall also terminate

                                             Page 9 of32
automatically at Buildout.

   5. Processing of Development Applications.

       5.1. Outsourcing of Processing of Development Applications. Within twenty-one (21)

       calendar days after receipt of a Development Application and upon the request of

       Applicant the City and Applicant will confer to determine whether the City desires to

       Outsource the review of any aspect of the Development Application to ensure that it is

       processed on a timely basis. If the City determines that Outsourcing is necessary to

       ensure the timely processing of the Development Application, then the City shall

       promptly estimate the reasonably anticipated differential cost of Outsourcing in good

       faith consultation with the Applicant (either overtime to City employees or the hiring of a

       City Consultant). If Applicant notifies the City that it desires to proceed with the

       Outsourcing based on the City's estimate of costs then Applicant shall deposit in advance

       with the City the estimated differential cost and the City shall then promptly proceed with

       having the work Outsourced. Upon completion of the Outsourcing services and the

       provision by the City of an invoice (with such reasonable supporting documentation as

       may be requested by Applicant) for the actual differential cost (whether by way of paying

       a City Consultant or paying overtime to City employees) of Outsourcing, Applicant shall,

       within thirty (30) calendar days pay or receive credit (as the case may be) for any

       difference between the estimated differential cost deposited for the Outsourcing and the

       actual cost differential.

       5.2. Acceptance of Certifications Required for Development Applications. Any

       Development Application requiring the signature, endorsement, or certification and/or

                                          Page 10 of32
stamping by a person holding a license or professional certification required by the State

of Utah in a particular discipline shall be so signed, endorsed, certified or stamped

signifying that the contents of the Development Application comply with the applicable

regulatory standards of the City. The City should endeavor to make all of its redlines,

comments or suggestions at the time of the first review of the Development Application

unless any changes to the Development Application raise new issues that need to be

addressed.

5.3. Independent Technical Analyses for Development Applications. If the City

needs technical expertise beyond the City's internal resources to determine impacts of a

Development Application such as for structures, bridges, water tanks, and other similar

matters which are required by the City's Vested Laws to be certified by such experts as

part of a Development Application, the City may engage such experts as City Consultants

with the actual and reasonable costs being the responsibility of Applicant. The City

Consultant undertaking any review by the City required or permitted by this MDA

shall be selected from a list generated by the City for each such City review

pursuant to a "request for proposal" process or as otherwise allowed by City

ordinances or regulations. Applicant may, in its sole discretion, strike from the list

of qualified proposers any of such proposed consultants so long as at least three

(3) qualified proposers remain for selection. The anticipated cost and timeliness

of such review may be a factor in choosing the expert. The actual and reasonable

costs being the responsibility of Applicant.


                                   Page 11 of32
5.4. City Denial of a Development Application. If the City denies a Development

Application the City shall provide a written determination advising the Applicant of the

reasons for denial including specifying the reasons the City believes that the

Development Application is not consistent with this MDA, the Zoning and/or the City's

Vested Laws (or, if applicable, the City's Future Laws).

5.5. Meet and Confer regarding Development Application Denials. The City and

Applicant shall meet within twenty-one (21) calendar days of any Denial to try to resolve

the issues specified in the Denial of a Development Application.

5.6. City Denials of Development Applications Based on Denials from Non-City

Agencies. If the City's denial of a Development Application is based on the denial of the

Development Application by a Non-City Agency, Applicant shall appeal any such denial

through the appropriate procedures for such a decision and not through the processes

specified below.

5.7. Mediation of Development Application Denials.

    5. 7 .1. Issues Subject to Mediation. Issues resulting from the City's Denial of a

    Development Application that the parties are not able to resolve by "Meet and

    Confer" shall be mediated.

    5.7.2. Mediation Process. If the City and Applicant are unable to resolve a

    disagreement subject to mediation, the parties shall attempt within fifteen (15)

    calendar days to appoint a mutually acceptable mediator with knowledge of the legal

    issue in dispute. If the City and Applicant are unable to agree on a single acceptable

    mediator they shall each, within fifteen ( 15) calendar days, appoint their own

                                    Page 12 of32
   representative. These two representatives shall, between them, choose the single

   mediator. Applicant and the City shall split the fees of the chosen mediator, each

   Party paying 50% of the fees. The chosen mediator shall within fifteen (15) calendar

   days, review the positions of the parties regarding the mediation issue and promptly

   attempt to mediate the issue between the parties. If the parties are unable to reach

   agreement, the mediator shall notify the parties in writing of the ordinance that the

   mediator deems appropriate. The mediator's opinion shall not be binding on the

   parties.

5.8. Arbitration of Development Application Objections.

   5.8.1. Arbitration Process. If the City and Applicant are unable to resolve an issue

   through mediation, the parties may then attempt within fifteen (15) calendar days to

   appoint a mutually acceptable arbitrator with knowledge of the legal issue in dispute.

   If the parties are unable to agree on a single acceptable arbitrator they shall each,

   within fifteen (15) calendar days, each Party shall appoint their own individual

   appropriate expert. These two experts shall, between them, choose the single

   arbitrator. Applicant and the City shall split the fees of the chosen arbitrator, each

   Party paying 50% of the fees. The chosen arbitrator shall within fifteen (15) calendar

   days, review the positions of the parties regarding the arbitration issue and render a

   decision. The arbitrator shall ask the prevailing party to draft a proposed order for

   consideration and objection by the other side. Upon adoption by the arbitrator, and

   consideration of such objections, the arbitrator's decision shall be final and binding

   upon both parties. If the arbitrator determines as a part of the decision that the City's

                                   Page 13 of32
           or Applicant's position was not only incorrect but was also maintained unreasonably

           and not in good faith then the arbitrator may order the City or Applicant to pay the

           arbitrator's fees.

       5.9. Parcel Sales. The City acknowledges that the precise location and details of the

       public improvements, lot layout and design and any other similar item regarding the

       development of a particular Parcel may not be known at the time of the creation of or sale

       of a Parcel. Master Developer may create a parcel as is provided in Utah Code Ann.,

       Section 10-9a-103(65)(c)(v) (2022) without seeking approval from the City or being

       subject to any requirement in the City's Vested Laws to complete or provide security for

       any Public Infrastructure at the time the creation of such a Parcel. The responsibility for

       completing and providing security for completion of any Public Infrastructure in the

       Parcel shall be that of the Master Developer or a Subdeveloper upon a subsequent re­

       subdivision of the Parcel that creates individually developable lots. However,

       construction of improvements shall not be allowed until the Master Developer or

       Subdeveloper complies with the City's Vested Laws.

   6. Application Under City's Future Laws. Without waiving any rights granted by this

MDA, Master Developer may at any time, choose to submit a Development Application for all

or part of the Project under the City's Future Laws in effect at the time of the Development

Application so long as Master Developer is not in current breach of this Agreement.

   7. Public Infrastructure.

       7 .1. Construction by and Master Developer. Master Developer shall have the right and

       the obligation to construct or cause to be constructed and installed all Public

                                          Page 14 of32
   Infrastructure reasonably and lawfully required as a condition of approval of the

   Development Application pursuant to the City's Vested Laws.

   7.2. Bonding. If and to the extent required by the City's Vested Laws and unless

   otherwise provided by Chapter 10-9a of the Utah Code as amended, Applicant shall

   provide security for any private or Public Infrastructure required by the City in a form

   acceptable to the City as specified in the City's Vested Laws. Partial releases of any such

   required security shall be made as work progresses based on the City's Vested Laws.

8. Upsizing/Reimbursements to Master Developer.

   8.1. "Upsizing". The City shall not require Master Developer to "upsize" any future

   Public Infrastructure (i.e., to construct the infrastructure to a size larger than required to

   service the Project) unless financial arrangements reasonably acceptable to Master

   Developer are made to compensate Master Developer for the incremental or additive

   costs of such upsizing. For example, if an upsizing to a water pipe size increases costs by

   10% but adds 50% more capacity, the City shall only be responsible to compensate

   Master Developer for the 10% cost increase. An acceptable financial arrangement for

   upsizing of improvements means reimbursement agreements, payback agreements, and

   impact fee credits and reimbursements.

9. Default.

   9.1. Notice. If Master Developer or a Subdeveloper or the City fails to perform their

   respective obligations hereunder or to comply with the terms hereof, the Party believing

   that a Default has occurred shall provide Notice to the other Party. If the City believes

   that the Default has been committed by a Subdeveloper then the City shall also provide a

                                        Page 15 of32
courtesy copy of the Notice to Master Developer.

9.2. Contents of the Notice of Default. The Notice of Default shall:

   9.2.1. Specific Claim. Specify the claimed event of Default;

   9.2.2. Applicable Provisions. Identify with particularity the provisions of any

   appi'icable law, rule, regulation or provision of this MDA that is claimed to be in

   Default;

   9.2.3. Materiality. Identify why the Default is claimed to be material; and

   9.2.4. Optional Cure. If the City chooses, in its discretion, it may propose a method

   and time for curing the Default which shall be of no less than thirty (30) calendar

   days duration.

9.3. Meet and Confer, Mediation, Arbitration. Upon the issuance of a Notice of

Default the parties shall engage in the "Meet and Confer" and "Mediation" processes

specified in Sections 5.5 and 5.7. If the claimed Default is subject to Arbitration as

provided in Section 5.8 then the parties shall follow such processes.

9.4. Remedies. If the parties are not able to resolve the Default by "Meet and Confer" or

by "Mediation", and if the Default is not subject to arbitration then the parties may have

the following remedies, except as specifically limited in 9.9:

    9.4.1. Law and Equity. All rights and remedies available at law and in equity,

    including, but not limited to, injunctive relief and/or specific performance.

    9.4.2. Security. The right to draw on any security posted or provided in connection

    with the Project and relating to remedying of the particular Default.

    9.4.3. Future Approvals. The right to withhold all further reviews, approvals,

                                   Page 16 of32
      licenses, building pennits and/or other permits for development of the Project in the

      case of a default by Master Developer, or in the case of a default by a Subdeveloper,

      development of those Parcels owned by the Subdeveloper until the Default has been

      cured.

   9.5. Public Meeting. Before any remedy in Section 9.4 may be imposed by the City the

   party allegedly in Default shall be afforded the right to attend a public meeting before the

   City Council and address the City Council regarding the claimed Default.

   9.6. Emergency Defaults. Anything in this MDA notwithstanding, if the City Council

   finds on the record that a default materially impairs a compelling, countervailing interest

   of the City and that any delays in imposing such a default would also impair a

   compelling, countervailing interest of the City then the City may impose the remedies of

   Section 9.4 without the requirements of Sections 9.5. The City shall give Notice to

   Master Developer and/or any applicable Subdeveloper of any public meeting at which an

   emergency default is to be considered and the Master Developer and/or any applicable

   Subdeveloper shall be allowed to address the City Council at that meeting regarding the

   claimed emergency Default.

   9.7. Extended Cure Period. If any Default cannot be reasonably cured within thirty (30)

   calendar days then such cure period shall be extended so long as the defaulting party is

   pursuing a cure with reasonable diligence.

   9.8. Default of Assignee. A default of any obligations assumed by an assignee shall not

   be deemed a default of Master Developer.

10. Notices. All notices required or permitted under this MDA shall, in addition to any other

                                      Page 17 of32
means of transmission, be given in writing by certified mail and regular mail to the following

address:

   To the Master Developer:

   Brad Mackay
   Ivory Development, LLC
   978 Woodoak Lane
   Salt Lake City, 84117
   bradm@ivorydevelopment.com
   801 -747-7000

   With a Copy to:

   Analise Wilson
   978 Woodoak Lane
   Salt Lake City, 84117
   awilson@ivoryhomes.com
   801 -747-7000

   To the Master Developer:


   To the City:

   Draper City
   Attn: City Manager
   David Dobbins
   1020 East Pioneer Road
   Draper, UT 84020
   David.dobbins@draperutah.gov
   (80 1) 576-6500

   With a Copy to:

   Draper City
   Attn: City Attorney
   Mike Barker
   1020 East Pioneer Road
   Draper, UT 84020
   Mike.barker@draperutah.gov
   (801) 576-6500

                                          Page 18 of32
       10.1. Effectiveness of Notice. Except as otherwise provided in this MDA, each Notice

       shall be effective and shall be deemed delivered on the earlier of:

           10.1.1. Hand Delivery. Its actual receipt, if delivered personally, by courier service,

           or by facsimile provided that a copy of the facsimile Notice is mailed or personally

           delivered as set forth herein on the same day and the sending party has confirmation

           of transmission receipt of the Notice. If t~e copy is not sent on the same day, then

           notice shall be deemed effective the date that the mailing or personal delivery occurs.

           10.1.2. Electronic Delivery. Its actual receipt if delivered electronically by email

           provided that a copy of the email is printed out in physical form and mailed or

           personally delivered as set forth herein on the same day and the sending party has an

           electronic receipt of the delivery of the Notice. If the copy is not sent on the same

           day, then notice shall be deemed effective the date that the mailing or personal

           delivery occurs.

           10.1.3. Mailing. On the day the Notice is postmarked for mailing, postage prepaid,

           by First Class or Certified United States Mail and actually deposited in or delivered to

           the United States Mail. Any party may change its address for Notice under this MDA

           by giving written Notice to the other party in accordance with the provisions of this

           Section.

    11. Headings. The captions used in this MDA are for convenience only and a not intended

to be substantive provisions or evidences of intent.

    12. No Third-Party Rights/No Joint Venture. This MDA does not create a joint venture

relationship, partnership or agency relationship between the City, or Master Developer. Further,
                                           Page 19 of32
the parties do not intend this MDA to create any third-party beneficiary rights. The Parties

acknowledge that this MDA refers to a private development and that the City has no interest in,

responsibility for or duty to any third parties concerning any improvements to the Property or

unless the City has accepted the dedication of such improvements at which time all rights and

responsibilities-except for warranty bond requirements under City's Vested Laws and as

allowed by state law-for the dedicated public improvement shall be the City's.

    13. Assignability. The rights and responsibilities of Master Developer under this MDA may

be assigned in whole or in part, respectively, by Master Developer with the consent of the City as

provided herein.

       13.1. Sale of Lots. Master Developer's selling or conveying lots in any approved

       Subdivision or Parcels to builders, users, or Subdevelopers, shall not be deemed to be an

       "assignment" subject to the above-referenced approval by the City unless specifically

       designated as such an assignment by Master Developer.

       13.2. Related Entity. Master Developer's transfer of all or any part of the Property to

       any entity "related" to Master Developer (as defined by regulations of the Internal

       Revenue Service in Section 165), Master Developer's entry into a joint venture for the

       development of the Project or Master Developer's pledging of part or all of the Project as

       security for financing shall also not be deemed to be an "assignment" subject to the

       above-referenced approval by the City unless specifically designated as such an

       assignment by the Master Developer. Master Developer shall give the City Notice of any

       event specified in this sub-section within fifteen (15) calendar days after the event has

        occurred. Such Notice shall include providing the City with all necessary contact

                                          Page 20 of32
information for the newly responsible party.

13.3. Notice. Master Developer shall give Notice to the City of any proposed

assignment and provide such information regarding the proposed assignee that the City

may reasonably request in making the evaluation permitted under this Section. Such

Notice shall include providing the City with all necessary contact information for the

proposed assignee.

13.4. Time for Objection. Unless the City objects in writing within ten (10) calendar

days of notice, the City shall be deemed to have approved of and consented to the

assignment.

13.5. Partial Assignment. If any proposed assignment is for less than all of Master

Developer's rights and responsibilities then the assignee shall be responsible for the

performance of each of the obligations contained in this MDA to which the assignee

succeeds. Upon any such approved partial assignment, Master Developer shall not be

released from any future obligations as to those obligations which are not assigned but

shall remain responsible for the performance of any unassigned obligations herein.

13.6. Denial. The City may only withhold its consent if the City is not reasonably

satisfied of the assignee's financial ability to perform the obligations of or Master

Developer proposed to be assigned or there is an existing breach of a development

obligation owed to the City by the assignee or related entity that has not either been cured

or in the process of being cured in a manner acceptable to the City. Any refusal of the

City to accept an assignment shall be subject to the "Meet and Confer" and "Mediation"

processes specified in Sections 5.5 and 5.7. If the refusal is subject to Arbitration as

                                   Page 21 of32
       provided in Section 5 .8 then the Parties shall follow such processes.

        13.7. Assignees Bound by MDA. Any assignee shall consent in writing to be bound by

       the assigned terms and conditions of this MDA as a condition precedent to the

       effectiveness of the assignment. That consent shall specifically acknowledge the

       provisions of Section 2.

    14. Binding Effect. If Master Developer sells or conveys Parcels of lands to Subdevelopers

or related parties, the lands so sold and conveyed shall bear the same rights, privileges,

configurations, and number of Residential Dwelling Units as applicable to such Parcel and be

subject to the same limitations and rights of the City when owned by or Master Developer and as

set forth in this MDA without any required approval, review, or consent by the City except as

otherwise provided herein.

    15. No Waiver. Failure of any Party hereto to exercise any right hereunder shall not be

deemed a waiver of any such right and shall not affect the right of such party to exercise at some

future date any such right or any other right it may have.

    16. Severability. If any provision of this MDA is held by a court of competent jurisdiction

to be invalid for any reason, the Parties consider and intend that this MDA shall be deemed

amended to the extent necessary to make it consistent with such decision and the balance of this

MDA shall remain in full force and affect.

    17. Force Maieure. Any prevention, delay or stoppage of the performance of any obligation

under this Agreement which is due to strikes, labor disputes, inability to obtain labor, materials,

equipment or reasonable substitutes therefor; acts of nature, governmental restrictions,

regulations or controls, judicial orders, enemy or hostile government actions, wars, civil

                                           Page 22 of32
commotions, fires or other casualties or other causes beyond the reasonable control of the Party

obligated to perform hereunder shall excuse performance of the obligation by that Party for a

period equal to the duration of that prevention, delay or stoppage.

    18. Time is of the Essence. Time is of the essence to this MDA and every right or

responsibility shall be performed within the times specified.

    19. Appointment of Representatives. To further the commitment of the Parties to

cooperate in the implementation of this MDA, the City and Master Developer each shall

designate and appoint a representative to act as a liaison between the City and its various

departments and the Master Developer. The initial representative for the City shall be the City

Manager. The initial representative for Master Developer shall be Brad Mackay. The Parties

may change their designated representatives by Notice. The representatives shall be available at

all reasonable times to discuss and review the performance of the Parties to this MDA and the

development of the Project.

    20. Applicable Law. This MDA is entered into in Salt Lake County in the State of Utah and

shall be construed in accordance with the laws of the State of Utah irrespective of Utah's choice

of law rules.

    21. Venue. Any action to enforce this MDA shall be brought only in the Third District Court

for the State of Utah.

    22. Entire Agreement. This MDA, and all Exhibits thereto, is the entire agreement between

the Parties and may not be amended or modified except either as provided herein or by a

subsequent written amendment signed by all Parties.

    23. Mutual Drafting. Each Party has participated in negotiating and drafting this MDA and

                                           Page 23 of32
 therefore no provision of this MDA shall be construed for or against any Party based on which

 Party drafted any particular portion of this MDA.

     24. Recordation and Running with the Land. This MDA shall be recorded in the chain of

 title for the Project. This MDA shall be deemed to run with the land. The data disk of the City's

 Vested Laws, Exhibit "C", shall not be recorded in the chain of title. A secure copy of Exhibit

 "C" shall be filed with the City Recorder and each party shall also have an identical copy.

     25. Authority. The Parties to this MDA each warrant that they have all of the necessary

 authority to execute this MDA. Specifically, on behalf of the City, the signature of the City

 Manager of the City is affixed to this MDA lawfully binding the City pursuant to Ordinance No.

\~   adopted by the City on July   _fl 2022.
        IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have executed this Agreement by and through

 their respective, duly authorized representatives as of the day and year first herein above written.

 MASTER DEVELOPER




 CITY
 Draper City


 By ~ ,
 Its: City Manager
 Date: 7 ~ ?A - 2. l

                                               Attest:

                                              r-0, J~c:a!_)
                                              ~      Recorder
                                            Page 24 of 32
CITY ACKNOWLEDGMENT

STATE OF UTAH                  )
                                   :ss.
COUNTY OF SALT LAKE )

On the ~       day of July, 2022 personally appeared before me    1)4,Vid     o.u~-~ho
                                                                                    being by me
duly sworn, did say that he is the City Manager of Draper City, a political subdivision of the
State of Utah, and that said instrument was signed in behalf of the City by authority of its City
Council and said City Manager acknowledged to me at the City e cuted the same.




                                                                      - - - - -- -
My Commission Expires:         1° I~, (U>'J..~
Residing at: -    ~-'~ ~-+---+----=--__,__
                                   (A:[ _ _

MASTER DEVELOPER ACKNOWLEDGMENT

STATE OF UTAH       )
                    :ss.
COUNTY OF SALT LAKE )
                 f4'                                                              :) {,,,.t-~vreJ"'- \~ ">
       On the 11 day of Jul y, 2022, personally a,Qpeared before me ~ti.sto~v ~-         , who
being by me duly sworn, did say that@she is the \.,.,✓,~ cM.A.'c    o(t/w l\v''::lop"'°"r,a Utah
    L\-l-                                                                        1
                 and that the foregoing instrument was duly authorized by t e company at a
lawful meeting held by authority of its operating agreement and signed in behalf of said
company.




My Commission Expi res:

Residing at:     R.Jv"-vr ~~                                   I
                                                                ----------,
                                                                
                                                              rI. .,.,..N11c-._°'uw,
                                                                      11ADM!tOAY 1
                                                                      COfllfll,1705722 ft
                                                                     ..,Q,.Ml11l:e,.. I

                                                               .. _ --------
                                                               I         Aid 11, -
                                                                        :.!            .II




                                            Page 25 of32
                                ACKNOWLEDGEMENT AND CONSENT

        Each of the below listed owners is an owner of a portion of the Property and hereby acknowledges
that Master Developer is authorized to enter into this Agreement and hereby provides its consent concerning
the same.




        Sintra Investments, LLC is an owner (Owner'') of a portion of the Property referenced
in the agreement entitled "MASTER DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT FOR FITZGERALD
PROPERTY", the Agreement to which this OWNER ACKNOWLEDGEMENT AND
CONSENT is a part. By its signature below Sintra Investments, LLC (i) acknowledges that i!
has rev iewed the terms and provisions of the Agreement (including exhibits and all material
referenced in the Agreement), (ii) has had opportunity if so desired to review the Agreement with
legal counsel, and (iii) acknowledges that Master Developer is authorized to enter into this
Agreement.

                                                 Sintra Investments, LLC, a Utah limited liability
                                                 company



                                                 ~;,·~
                                           ACKNOWLEDGMENT

STATEOF     LA\-"'~                                                                               )
                                                                                                  : ss.
County of <;"-I+ htt-k(.,,                                                                        )

        On this i la ay of         j
                                  v. \ 4    , 2oiz., before the undersigned notary public in and
for the said state, personally appearetl Q.J t..o   t~«:>c...~    , known or identified to me to be
the MCA."''4.jvC              of Sintra love tments, LLC, a Utah limited liability company, and
the person wh; executed the foregoing instrument and acknowledged to me that said company
executed the same. IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand and seal the day and
year first above written.


r----------,I                                  41 ftlftd,_7
'--
    ________ .,
. . . ~AMl: - -<JIUWI
I
I s:     ~
                IIADIMCKAY
                CHIii. '705722
               ,...Qll..11 :r&,11111
                   A,1111,21m
                                       I
                                       I
                                                 Notary ftiblic (Z_
                                                 Residing at:       / 1/\lf /.-.. fe.."'-.
                                                 My Commission Expires: L/, // ~ ZVt}



                                              Page 26 of 32
                              ACKNOWLEDGEMENT AND CONSENT

        Each of the below listed owners is an owner of a portion of the Property and hereby acknowledges
that Master Developer is authorized to enter into this Agreement and hereby provides its consent concerning
the same.




        Boyer Draper Pioneer, L.C. is an owner (Owner") of a portion of the Property
referenced in the agreement entitled "MASTER DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT FOR
FITZGERALD PROPERTY", the Agreement to which this OWNER ACKNOWLEDGEMENT
AND CONSENT is a part. By its signature below Boyer Draper Pioneer, L.C. (i)
acknowledges that i! has reviewed the terms and provisions of the Agreement (including exhibits
and all material referenced in the Agreement), (ii) has had opportunity if so desired to review the
Agreement w ith legal counsel, and (iii) acknowledges that Master Developer is authorized to
enter into this Agreement.

                                                 Boyer Draper Pioneer, L.C., a Utah limited
                                                 liability company

                                                 By ~ ~ - ~
                                                 lts ~ b L-~                        y..,.
                                                                                    --
                                                                                          _
                                       ACKNOWLEDGMENT                                    >




           U-T/\\t _ __
STATE OF---'---...c.,__                                                                            )
                                                                                                   : ss.
County of <.;;1Ji.\t L-0\~e                                                                        )

        On this 'l.~day of       J1;1.(~     , 201-1-, before the undersigned notary public in and
for the said state, personally appear d ~llllob (... . P:i•yev      , known or identified to me to be
the    W\rA,IA~tr             of Boyer Draper Pioneer, L.C., a Utah limited liability company,
and the person who executed the forego ing instrument and acknowledged to me that said
company executed the same. IN WITNESS WHE OF,                      ve hereunto set my hand and seal
the day and year first above written.




                                              Page 27 of 32
              TABLE OF EXHIBITS


Exhibit "A"         Legal Description of Property
Exhibit "B"         Master Plan
Exhibit "C"         City's Vested Laws




                  Page 28 of32
                                         Exhibit "A''
                                 Legal Description of Property

A tract ofland located in the Southwest Quarter of Section 29 and the Northwest Quarter of Section
32, Township 3 South, Range 1 East, Salt Lake Base & Meridian, Draper, Utah. Entire tract of
land comprised of six (6) parcels identified by Salt Lake County as Parcel No. 28-32-201-014, 28-
29-452-009, 28-29-452-010, 28-29-452-012, 28-29-452-023 & 28-32-201-001, being more
particularly described as follows:


Beginning at a point on a southerly line of CAROL LEE SUBDIVISION, according to the Official
Plat thereof recorded September 4, 1998 as Entry No. 7078803 in Book 98-9 of Plats at Page 244
in the Office of the Salt Lake County Recorder, located N89°59'55"E 39.l Ofeet along the Section
line and North 25.45 feet from the South 1/4 Corner of Section 29, T3S, RlE, SLB&M; running
thence along said plat the following two (2) courses: (1) East 59.90 feet; thence (2) N00°45'00"E
462.24 feet to a fence line on the southerly boundary determined by that certain Quit Claim Deed
recorded August 30, 1989 as Entry No. 4817375 in Book 6155 at Page 0393 in the Office of the
Salt Lake County Recorder; thence along said fence line and boundary the following two (2)
courses: (1) N85°02'54"E 412.52 feet; thence (2) N00°06'52"E 69.9 feet; thence East 562.40 feet
to a westerly line of a boundary determined by that certain Quit Claim Deed recorded November
11, 2002 as Entry No. 8429077 in Book 8688 at Page 2960 in the Office of the Salt Lake County
Recorder; thence along said westerly boundary line to and along a westerly line of a boundary
determined by that certain Corrective Warranty Deed recorded December 7, 2009 as Entry No.
10853079 in Book 9786 at Page 1214 in the Office of the Salt Lake County Recorder S00°35'07"E
595.25 feet; thence along said boundary line the following three (3) courses: (1) N89°5 l 'Ol "E
128.28 feet; thence (2) N00°35'07"W 1.75 feet to the Section line; thence along the Section line
(3) N89°59'55"E 227.14 feet to a westerly boundary line determined by that certain Quit Claim
Deed recorded October 29, 2002 at Entry No. 8402013 in Book 8674 at Page 3196 in the Office
of the Salt Lake County Recorder; thence along said westerly boundary line S00°36'00"W 330.44
feet to a northeasterly corner of RIVERMARK Subdivision, according to the Official Plat thereof
recorded July 23, 2018 as Entry No. 12814899 in Book 2018 of Plats at Page 257 in the Office of
the Salt Lake County Recorder; thence along said plat to and along a northerly line of a boundary
determined by that certain Survey No. S2019-10-0772 certified October 21, 2019 on file in the
Office of the Salt Lake County Surveyor S89°59'55"W 1,112.77 feet to a point on the northeasterly
line of 12650 South Street, according to the Official Plat thereof recorded October 22, 1976 as
Entry No. 2869313 in Book 76-10 of Plats at Page 226 in the Office of the Salt Lake County
Recorder; thence along said plat the following two (2) courses: (1) N70°00'00"W 69.00 feet;
thence (2) along said northerly right of way line West 20.00 feet to a southeasterly comer of a
boundary determined by that certain Warranty Deed recorded January 27, 2021 as Entry No.
 13545893 in Book 11106 at Page 5727 in the Office of the Salt Lake County Recorder; thence
along said boundary line the following two (2) courses: (1) North 142.90 feet; thence (2) West
 210.80 feet to a southeasterly corner of a boundary determined by Warranty Deed recorded March
 26, 2013 as Entry No. 11604622 in Book 10120 at Page 8529 in the Office of the Salt Lake County
 Recorder; thence along the easterly line of said boundary N04°30'00"E 139.35 feet to a
                                             Page 29 of32
southeasterly comer of 12600 South Street; thence North 50.45 feet to the point of [beginning.

Contains: 22.37 acres+/-




                                          Page 30 of32
Exhibit "B"
Master Plan·




               lI
               I




Page 31 of32
                                  N
                                                                                                                                        PIONEER ROAD




             -
               •
          " ~ __ ..
                          GR.\PIU..: 51.:AU.:


                                     .,
                              , ,r. n.u,
                                                                                                                                            S.O ACRES




      PROPERTY OVERVIEW
          rorA!. AC.tlAG:                       27 4 ACRt.S
          CITY•OVl'\W ACR::AGl                  5.0ACRE.S
          OMl OPW[f'lf .lCR£AGt                 ll" -'CIUS



                                                                                                                                                                                      
          i OIA!. LOIS                          6l
          i 01A!.OH6f'Y                         1-l!UMIS/ACRf.

                                                                                                                                                                                           9,000+ SQFT LOTS: 59


                                                                                                                                                                                          f-ACRE LOTS: 3

                                                                                                                                                                                           TOTAL LOTS: 62




                                                                                                                                                                           50 PARTIAL ROW TO MATCH
                                                                                                                                                                          CARRAWAY LN CUR& RETURN
                                                                 12600 SOUTH




                                                                                                                                                              II


                                                                                        -...
                                                                                        .,,_
                                                                               DETENTION POND>-+---   -   •
                                                                                                                                                     -~°...

                                                                                                                                       12650 SOUTH                                               3
                                                                                                              12650 SOU{H ro 6E IMPROVED
                                                                                                              WITH SIDEWALt< & PARK STRIP                          PARCEL OWNED BY               I
                                                                                                              ON '!ORTH SIDE.                                           DRAPER CITY              ~
                                                                                                                                                                                                 ~



Bainbridge                             concevt olan N
DRAPER CITY, SALT LAKE COUNTY
6/13/2022
?, .01n
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ~   Jl§"'
. ~ ..   ,v--   .




                       . Exhibit "C"
                    City's Vested Laws




                                             .I




                                         \



                       '\
                        \




                      Page32 of32
           EXHIBIT G
PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT
                            AMENDMENT TO                                                              Commented [JJ1]: Add exhibits with the legal description and
                                                                                                      updated master plan.
             MASTER DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT FOR FITZGERALD
                          PROPRETYPROPERTY

       This Amendment to Master Development Agreement for Fitzgerald Property
(“Amendment”) is entered into this ____ day of July, 2023 (“Effective Date”), by and between
Draper City, a municipal corporation of the State of Utah, (“City”), and Ivory Development, LLC,
a Utah limited liability company (“Developer”), sometimes referred to jointly herein as “Parties.”

                                          RECITALS:

        WHEREAS The Parties previously entered into that certain Master Development
Agreement for Fitzgerald Property (“Agreement”) dated on or about July 19, 2022 with respect to
real property located in Draper City, Salt Lake County, State of Utah (“Property”);

       WHEREAS Developer and the City have cooperated in the preparation of this Amendment
and desire to enter into this Amendment to specify additional rights and responsibilities of
Developer as expressed in this Amendment and the rights and responsibilities of the City to allow
and regulate such development pursuant to the requirements of this Amendment.

        NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the promises, covenants, representations and
warranties hereinafter set forth, and for other good and valuable consideration, the receipt and
sufficiency of which are acknowledged, the Parties agree as follows:                                  Commented [JJ2]: Current code allows D-ADUs on lots that are
                                                                                                      12,000 square feet or more. Modify this to state lots under 12,000 sq
                                                                                                      ft also qualify for a D-ADU. There isn’t a limit on the number of
          1. Definitions. All capitalized terms used but not otherwise defined herein shall have      lots with in a subdivision that allows for D-ADUs. Our code does
   the same meanings assigned such terms in the Agreement.                                            state that if a property builds a D-ADU they forfeit the right to have
                                                                                                      an I-ADU. Staff does appreciate the last two sentences.

           2. External Accessory Dwelling Units. Notwithstanding anything contrary in the             Commented [JJ3]: This needs to state that modified setbacks
                                                                                                      only apply to D-ADUs. The way this is written it would modify all
   Agreement or in the City’s Vested Laws, Developer shall have the right to construct external       rear and side setbacks for all dwelling units to 5’, including the
   accessory dwelling units on each developable lot if such units are constructed within the          primary units. Current setbacks for primary units are 20’ rear and 8’
                                                                                                      sides. I’m not sure if Council would be supportive of that. If the
   Modified Setbacks (defined below). However, Developer shall only have the right to construct       intent is for this to allow D-ADUs to have a rear and side setback of
   a single accessory dwelling unit on each developable lot. If Developer determines to construct     5’ rather than 20’/8’ then this needs to state that.

   an internal accessory dwelling unit, Developer shall not have the right to also construct an       Commented [JJ4]: Staff recommends a reduced height for D-
                                                                                                      ADUs. The code allows D-ADUs to have a 35-foot height, same as
   external accessory dwelling unit.                                                                  the primary unit. Having only a 10’ separation between that tall of
                                                                                                      buildings probably wouldn’t be supported. Recommend limiting
                                                                                                      height to 2 stories in exchange for the reduced setback.
           3. Modified Setbacks. The setbacks in the Development shall be amended to be five
                                                                                                      Commented [JJ5]: Developer needs to provide a suitable
   (5) feet for both the rear and side year setbacks.                                                 turnaround at the eastern terminus of 12600 S. We are open to a
                                                                                                      reduced width cul-de-sac design, such as 80-feet of drivable surface
                                                                                                      and no parkstrip or sidewalk. Lots 101 and 102 are not required to
           4. Connection Not Required. Notwithstanding anything contrary in the Agreement or          be 20,000 square feet in size and have room to loose in order to
   in the City’s Vested Laws, Developer shall not be required to connect any internal street in the   allow for the turn around.
   Development to 12650 12600 South.                                                                  Commented [BM6R5]: We do not have a standard public
                                                                                                      hammerhead. Typically only private streets are permitted to use
                                                                                                      hammerheads. We do not plow hammerheads because of the
          5. Public Storm Water Detention Basin. Whereas the Developer desires to dedicate            difficulty with the size of the city’s plows. A modified cul-de-sac is
   to the city the storm water detention basin, located in Parcel A of the subdivision, the           allowed.

   construction of the basin is required to be of minimal maintenance requirements, such as           Formatted: Underline
   decorative, stamped concrete, and fenced in such a way as to provide safety and security of the    Formatted: No underline
                                                                                                      Formatted: No underline



                                                1
basin and its operation and maintenance activities. The fencing shall not be installed within
the sight triangles and clear view areas where Parcel A has streets on three sides. The City
desires a facility with minimal maintenance requirements, such as minimal weed growth
potential, garbage or trash collection, et cetera. Fencing shall have a twenty-foot wide access
gate to the basin.                                                                                Formatted: No underline
                                                                                                  Formatted: List Paragraph, Left, No bullets or numbering,
       5.6.        Subordination of Conflicting Terms. In the event of a conflict in the terms    Tab stops: Not at 1"

and conditions of this Amendment with the terms and conditions of the Agreement, the terms
and conditions of this Amendment shall be binding and govern the conduct of the parties.

       6.7.      No Other Changes. All provisions in the Agreement as it may have been
previously amended not specifically amended by this Amendment shall remain in full force
and effect.

        7.8.       Counterparts. This Amendment may be executed in any number of
counterparts, each of which when so executed and delivered, shall be deemed an original, but
with all such counterparts being taken together to constitute a single original.

                                [signatures on following page(s)]




                                            2
        IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have set their hands to this Amendment
effective as of the date above first written.

Developer:
                                          IVORY DEVELOPMENT, LLC,
                                          a Utah limited liability company

                                          By:
                                          Name:
                                          Its:

STATE OF UTAH       )
                    : ss.
COUNTY OF SALT LAKE )

        On this ____ day of _______________, 2023, personally appeared before me
_______________________, known or satisfactorily proved to me to be the person who signed
the foregoing instrument, and acknowledged to me that he/she is the _____________________ of
Ivory Development, LLC, a Utah limited liability company, and acknowledged to me that said
limited liability company executed the same.

                                          Notary Public


                                          City:
                                          DRAPER CITY

                                          By _______________________________
                                                Troy K. Walker, Mayor

Attest and Countersign:

                                                               Dated:
_______________________




                                             3
City Recorder
STATE OF UTAH               )
                            : ss.
COUNTY OF SALT LAKE )
       The foregoing instrument was acknowledged before me this _____ day of ___________,
2023, by Troy K. Walker, Mayor.


                                         Notary Public




                                            4
    EXHIBIT H
PRELIMINARY PLAT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      SURVEYOR'S CERTIFICATE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               BAINBRIDGE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          GRAPHIC SCALE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         I, JUSTIN LUNDBERG, DO HEREBY CERTIFY THAT I AM A PROFESSIONAL LAND
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         SURVEYOR, AND THAT I HOLD LICENCE NUMBER 12554439 AS PRESCRIBED UNDER
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            SUBDIVISION PLAT                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF UTAH. I FURTHER CERTIFY THAT BY THE AUTHORITY OF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         THE OWNERS, I HAVE MADE A SURVEY OF THE TRACT OF LAND SHOWN ON THIS PLAT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               LOCATED IN THE SE 1/4 OF SECTION 29 & NE 1/4 OF SECTION 32, T3S, R1E,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         AND DESCRIBED BELOW, AND HAVE SUBDIVIDED SAID TRACT OF LAND INTO LOTS,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 SALT LAKE BASE & MERIDIAN                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               PARCELS AND STREETS, HEREAFTER TO BE KNOWN AS:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           DRAPER CITY, SALT LAKE COUNTY, UTAH                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ( IN FEET )
                                                                  E 12300 SOUTH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           MAY 2023                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       1 inch = 80 ft.                                                                                                                                                                                                     BAINBRIDGE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             SUBDIVISION PLAT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         AND THAT THE SAME HAS BEEN CORRECTLY SURVEYED AND STAKED ON THE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         GROUND AS SHOWN ON THIS PLAT.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   20' SEWER EASEMENT IN FAVOR OF
                                                          E 12400 SOUTH                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            SOUTH VALLEY SEWER DISTRICT
                                                                                                                       PARK
                                                                                                          X
                                                                                                                                        RD                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ENTRY No. ___________________
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   BK. ___________ PG. ___________
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      O  R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     F IEW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 28-29-452-022
                       S FORT ST




                                                                      SITE LOCATION                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             DRAPER CITY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ENTRY No. 10302940                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    N89°59'55"E 562.39'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           NOTES:




                                                                                                                                             S 1300 EAST
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               BK:9549 PG:5295
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               N0°06'52"E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                30.00' 30.00'                                                 90.00'                                                          84.00'                                            89.85'                                                              88.01'                                                                                       150.55'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           1. #5 X 24" REBAR & CAP (FOCUS ENG) TO BE SET AT ALL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       LOT CORNERS. NAILS OR PLUGS TO BE SET IN TOP BACK                                                                              E V Y
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    R NL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      X




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                53.45'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                104.04'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   69.89'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              122                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      OF CURB AT EXTENSION OF SIDE LOT LINES, IN LIEU OF




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                S0°02'15"W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  X                                                              X                                                          X                                                          X




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       O




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   S0°06'52"W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Justin Lundberg                                                          Date




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  S2°33'23"W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       REBAR AND CAPS AT FRONT LOT CORNERS.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  127.08'
                                   E 12650 S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          118                                                119                                                           120                                                                    121




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      S0°02'15"W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         15682 sqft




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  S0°02'15"W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     111.88'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    112.79'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Professional Land Surveyor




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        126.96'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   2. PARCEL A IS HEREBY DEDICATED TO DRAPER CITY AS A




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    127.02'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      111.88'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       1060 EAST
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     11386 sqft                                          10667 sqft                                                    11415 sqft                                                             10406 sqft
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     412.52'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           PUBLIC STORM WATER FACILITY.                                                        Licence No. 12554439
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         N85°02'54"E




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       34.15'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      139.59'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           5'                                                               28-29-478-011                                                                                                                                                                             3. PARCEL B IS HEREBY DEDICATED TO DRAPER CITY AS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      49.94'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        8.5 "W                                                            SALT LAKE COUNTY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             199.91'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    X




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     C4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 13 6'47
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0                                                               ENTRY No. 8429077
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       OPEN SPACE.                                                                                                  BOUNDARY DESCRIPTION
                                                                                                                                                                                         L5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             X




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       117 C30                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     C5                                               3°                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             4. LOTS 134 - 144 SHALL HAVE NO ACCESS ONTO 12650




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 145.72'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  C3                                                                                                             S5                                                                     BK:8688 PG:2960                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         A tract of land located in the Southeast Quarter of Section 29 and the Northeast Quarter of Section




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          C2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      30.00'                              CV 75.15'                                         84.00'                                                                  89.85'
VICINITY MAP                                                                                                                                                                                                                      204                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  SOUTH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              X




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     11692 sqft                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      SURVEY No. S02-07-0308
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         32, Township 3 South, Range 1 East, Salt Lake Base & Meridian, Draper, Utah., being more particularly




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    C10
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        C3                                                                                N89°57'45"W 285.07'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    123




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        124 3'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   5. LOT 102 SHALL HAVE NO ACCESS ONTO 12600 SOUTH




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 30.00'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          130.15

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 16415 sqft                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                8




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          130.15




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          124
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          12510 SOUTH                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    described as follows:




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           .53
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             X



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 S89°57'45"E 299.92'                                                                                                                                                               11088 sqft                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      6. SOUTH VALLEY SEWER EASEMENT IS TO BE VACATED




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             .5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  S4 170




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      C6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             4"E                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Beginning at a point located on the South Quarter Corner of Section 29, T3S, R1E, Salt Lake Base
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       205                                                                                                                                                                             (PUBLIC- 60' WIDE)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                    2° .22
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           C2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          AFTER THE RECORDING OF THE SUBDIVISION, BY A
                                                                                                                                 JEFFERY J. & KERI L.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         51'1




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              C3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      48
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      5°                                                        9                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        and Meridian; thence N0°07'08E 25.45 feet to the southerly line of CAROL LEE SUBDIVISION,




                                                                                                                                                                                                                         '40 '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    N6




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   9
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  14380 sqft                                                                37'                                                                              C22                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       SEPARATE DOCUMENT.
                                                                                                                                     28-29-377-023




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        94.                                                                                                                                                                          N89°57'45"W 294.16'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                            "E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 C2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      according to the Official Plat thereof recorded September 4, 1998 as Entry No. 7078803 in Book 98-9 of
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   7. BASEMENT ELEVATION SHALL BE A MINIMUM OF (3)
                                                                                                                                       BRYANT




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       X           0                                                                                                     88.00'                                  76.00'                                                                                  71.93'            C2                                                                                                106.48'
                                                                                                                                         LOT 1




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               17.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             3                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Plats at Page 244 in the Office of the Salt Lake County Recorder, running thence along said plat the
                                                                                                                                                                                     201.22'


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       C21                                                                                                                                                                                                    CV                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       THREE FEET ABOVE HIGHEST MEASURED
               CENTER CORNER SECTION 29,                                                                                                                                                                                                                               C42                                                                                                                                                                                      116                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        S89°59'55"W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              C7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        C3




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                09'
                                                                                                                                                                                                              X


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      X




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           5                                                                                                                                                                                              X                                                           X                                                    X
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              X




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       GROUNDWATER ELEVATION. BASED ON GEOTECHNICAL                                      following two (2) courses: (1) East 98.95 feet; thence (2) N00°45'00"E 462.24 feet to a fence line on the
               T3S, R1E, SLB&M (CALCULATED)                                                                                                                                                                203                                                                       C37                                                                                             .88'                                                                 13643 sqft
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  103 0"W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                115                                                     114                                                          113                                                                  112                                                                                                         C8
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  124




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                S0°35'07"E 595.25'
                                                                                                              29                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       REPORT FROM IGES PROJECT NO. 00145-029 DATE MAY                                   southerly boundary determined by that certain Quit Claim Deed recorded August 30, 1989 as Entry No.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           N0°02'15"E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   S2




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     N4°42'46"E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        '3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          X




               SALT LAKE COUNTY MONUMENT                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            °54




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         N0°02'15"E




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            S0°02'15"W
                                                                                                                                                                                                      20122 sqft




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 88.00'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            120.00'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     8°3




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                105.01'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 S67




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      115.95'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 10082 sqft                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            10,2021                                                                           4817375 in Book 6155 at Page 0393 in the Office of the Salt Lake County Recorder; thence along said
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              206                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        10387 sqft




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          70.20'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              11142 sqft                                              10560 sqft                                                    9120 sqft




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        120.00'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              120.00'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        1'0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             C36
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   8. LOTS 101-102, 123-133 AND 201-203 HAVE REAR YARD                                   fence line and boundary the following two (2) courses: (1) N85°02'54"E 412.52 feet ; thence (2)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           2"E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           9987 sqft
                                                                                                                                                              N0°45'00"E 462.24'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       RETENTION BASINS WITH PRIVATE EASEMENT. REAR                                      N00°06'52"E 69.89 feet; thence N89°59'55”E 562.39 feet to a westerly line of a boundary determined by




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       C33




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 127
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           N89°59'55"E                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 YARD RETENTION SYSTEMS ARE PRIVATELY OWNED AND                                    that certain Quit Claim Deed recorded November 11, 2002 as Entry No. 8429077 in Book 8688 at Page




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              255.03'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       .65
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          L4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             115.70'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   MAINTAINED BY THE LOT OWNER. LOTS 101-102 AND
                                                                                                                                                                                                            134.07'                                                                                                                                                      68.86'                                   79.68'                                                   65.46'                                               98.54'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   2960 in the Office of the Salt Lake County Recorder; thence along said westerly boundary line to and




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      S89°57'45"E                                                  S89°57'45"E                                                       S89°57'45"E

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            L3




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                210.00'
                                                                       RECORD ARP (N0°08'46"E 2642.23')




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      X




                                                                                                                                                                                                          S89°59'55"W                                                                                                                                                 N89°57'45"W                              N89°57'45"W                                                      76.00'                                              92.00'                                               84.00'                                                       76.00'                                                            87.00'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         LOTS 201-203 REQUIRE 650 CUBIC FEET OF RETENTION PER                              along a westerly line of a boundary determined by that certain Corrective Warranty Deed recorded
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  125
                                                                                                                               TROY BLUNDELL &
                                                                                                                               SANDRA J. CULVER




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      C31




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          C34
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   C4




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       LOT. LOTS 123-133 REQUIRE 270 SQUARE FEET OF




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 C3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               12.0'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     December 7, 2009 as Entry No. 10853079 in Book 9786 at Page 1214 in the Office of the Salt Lake
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      3




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          96.08'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  96.09'
                                                                                                                                  28-29-377-024




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         X
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               X                                                       X                                                      X                                                           X                                                X                                                                  X
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 11164 sqft                                                                PRIVATE REAR                                                                                                                                                                                RETENTION PER LOT.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    X




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          YARD RETENTION                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 County Recorder S00°35'07"E 595.25 feet; thence along said boundary line the following three (3)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      207                                            208                                                        209                                                210                                                   211                                                         212                                                                  111
                                                                                                                                      LOT 2




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   9. THERE ARE PRIVATE DRAINAGE SWALES ON LOTS 103-110




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       N0°02'15"E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            S0°00'05"E




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                104.99'
                                                                                                                                                                                                              202




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        S0°00'05"E 555.03'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         courses: (1) N89°51'01"E 128.27 feet; thence (2) N00°35'07"W 1.75 feet to the Section line; thence along




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         S0°02'15"W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             EASEMENT




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             S0°02'15"W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         N0°02'15"E




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      S0°02'15"W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                185.00'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        120.00'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ,213-218, 117-116, AND LOTS 205-206. THERE ARE 5' SIDE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              80.03'
                                                                                                                                                                                    132.01'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        S0°02'15"W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           120.00'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 10560 sqft                                                 9120 sqft                                           11040 sqft                                             10080 sqft                                                   9120 sqft                                                            10397 sqft




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               120.00'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            10265 sqft




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          120.00'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            120.00'
                                                                                                                                                                                                       20088 sqft                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        the Section line (3) N89°59'55"E 227.14 feet to a westerly boundary line determined by that certain Quit




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          120.00'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           106.99'




                                                                                                                                                                                                  15' PRIVATE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             116.68'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   YARD DRAINAGE EASEMENTS ALONG THESE LOTS. THE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                N0°00'05"W 495.21'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Claim Deed recorded October 29, 2002 at Entry No. 8402013 in Book 8674 at Page 3196 in the Office of
                                                                                                                                                                                                  REAR YARD                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                S89°59'55"W                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 DRAINAGE SWALES ARE PRIVATELY OWNED AND
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             N0°00'05"W 362.77'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      X




                                                                                                                                                                                                  RETENTION                                                                                                                                                            CV                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              MAINTAINED BY THE INDIVIDUAL LOT OWNERS.                                          the Salt Lake County Recorder; thence along said westerly boundary line S00°36'00"W 330.44 feet to a
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  126                                                                        28-29-452-028                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               northeasterly corner of RIVERMARK Subdivision, according to the Official Plat thereof recorded July
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        C2


                                                                                                                                                                                                  EASEMENT                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         2                4                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              10. PARCEL C IS HEREBY DEDICATED TO DRAPER CITY AS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     84.00'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   84.00'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        72.50'                                   88.00'                                                          76.00'                                                   92.00'                            84.00'                                                                    76.00'                                                                  CV C
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          72.07'                                                                                                                                                                                         SALT LAKE COUNTY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          5



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 9837 sqft
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                S0°00'05"E 302.77'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                154.46'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ENTRY No. 10853079                                                                                                                                                                           PUBLIC RIGHT OF WAY.                                                              23, 2018 as Entry No. 12814899 in Book 2018 of Plats at Page 257 in the Office of the Salt Lake County
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      30.00' 30.00'
                                                                                                                        KIMBERLY K. BELL




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                30.00' 30.00'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      S89°57'45"E 560.57'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           BK:9786 PG:1214                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Recorder; thence along said plat S89°59'55”W 1112.77 feet to and along DRAPER ELEMENTARY
                                                                                                                          MICHAEL D. &




                                                                                                                                                                                                              S89°59'55"W
                                                                                                                           28-29-377-037




              RIGHT OF WAY & EASEMENT GRANT                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           S89°57'45"E 650.57'                                                 12550 SOUTH                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  SURVEY No. S2009-12-0550                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Subdivision, according to the Official Plat thereof recorded November 5, 2021 as Entry No. 13817111in
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             117.54'
                                                                                                                               LOT 3




  IN FAVOR OF MOUNTAIN FUEL SUPPLY COMPANY                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             (PUBLIC- 60' WIDE)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Book 2021P at Page 283 in the Office of the Salt Lake County Recorder, to a point on the northeasterly
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        177.77'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           S89°59'55"W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   X




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              (PUBLIC- 60' WIDE)
                  ENTRY NO: 1985283, B 2165, P 183                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        X




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   S89°57'45"E 560.57'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   line of 12650 South Street, according to the Official Plat thereof recorded October 22, 1976 as Entry No.
                                                                                                                                                                                                              201                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 127
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           129.00'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           C1
                                                                                                                                                                                   129.01'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       72.64'                                         76.00'                                                        92.00'         84.00'                                                                                88.00'                                                      76.00'                                                              71.93'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          2869313 in Book 76-10 of Plats at Page 226 in the Office of the Salt Lake County Recorder; thence along




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          78.00'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               5




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   78.00'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              9
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        C1




                                                                                                                                                                                                            20039 sqft                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            CV




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  1100 EAST
                                        PARCEL C                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      CV X                                             X                                                           X                                                          X                                                       X                                                    X
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              X                                                                                                                   9199 sqft
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             SOUTHEAST CORNER SECTION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         said plat the following (2) two courses: (1) N70°00'00”W 69.00 feet; (2) West 20.00 feet; to a
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     (PUBLIC- 60' WIDE)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         southeasterly corner of a boundary determined by that certain Warranty Deed recorded January 27, 2021
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  S0°02'15"W




      SOUTH 1/4 CORNER             994 sqft
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      218                                        217                                                        216                                                    215                                                  214                                                          213                                                                  110
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       S0°02'15"W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             29, T3S, R1E, SLB&M FOUND




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                S0°02'15"W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         S0°02'15"W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 N0°00'05"W 132.74'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        120.00'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            S0°02'15"W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           104.99'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           N0°02'15"E




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                105.01'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             118.33'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     as Entry No. 13545893 in Book 11106 at Page 5727 in the Office of the Salt Lake County Recorder;
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            120.00'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  120.00'
      SECTION 24, T3S,




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           120.00'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         10387 sqft                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          SALT LAKE COUNTY MONUMENT




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              120.00'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            10465 sqft                                          9120 sqft                                             11040 sqft                                                10080 sqft                                            10560 sqft                                                    9120 sqft




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            120.00'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         1030 EAST




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           S89°59'55"W
                                                                                                                   X




      R1E, SLB&M FOUND         N0°07'08"E                                                                     EAST 98.95'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             N0°35'07"W                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         thence along said boundary line the following two (2) courses: (1) North 142.90 feet; thence (2) West
                                                                                                                                                                                                              156.23'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     X




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         210.80 feet to a southeasterly corner of a boundary determined by Warranty Deed recorded March 26,




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    50.33'
      SALT LAKE COUNTY             25.45'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    1.75'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  128
                                                                                                                                   25.45'




                                                                                                                                                                                                             S89°59'56"W 216.14'
      MONUMENT                                                         29                                                                                                                             X




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 N89°51'01"E 128.27'                                                                                                  N89°59'55"E 227.14'                                                                                                   BASIS OF BEARING: S89°59'55"W                  29 28         2013 as Entry No. 11604622 in Book 10120 at Page 8529 in the Office of the Salt Lake County Recorder;




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                210.00'
                     POINT OF BEGINNING




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          92.00'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           66.79'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 10920 sqft
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         thence along the easterly line of said boundary N04°30'00"E 139.35 feet to a southeasterly corner of
             12600 S.
                                                                      32                                                                                                                         102                                                                                                                                                     87.57'                                                      76.00'                            N89°57'45"W 92.00'                                                         84.00'                                                88.00'                                     76.00'                                                                                    87.00'                                                                                                                                                                                     92.00'                                 36.27'          47.75'                                88.00'                                                91.39'                                                       (SECTION LINE) MEASURED: 2,642.17'                32     33      12600 South Street; thence North 25.00 feet; thence West 39.10 feet to the point of beginning.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    41.67'
                                                         WEST




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        S0°02'15"W 131.67'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            27.75'




                                                                                                                                                                                 20495 sqft                                                                                                                                                           N89°57'45"W                                              84.00'                                         76.00'                                                                          92.00'                                   76.00'                               N89°57'45"W 88.00'                                                                           N89°57'45"W                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                (ARP: S89°59'55"W 2644.94')
                                                         39.10'                                                                                                               20.00' TRAIL
                                                                  NORTH                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       118.82'                                                                     X
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           X                                               X
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      N0°02'15"E




                                                                                                                                                                            AND FIRE ACCESS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      S0°02'15"W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Area Contains: 22.39 acres+/-




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           N0°02'15"E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         X                                                 X                                                       X                                                      X                                                 X                                                          X                                                                      X




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        N0°02'15"E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     C26
                                                                                                                                 44.21'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      S0°02'15"W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      130                                           131                                              132
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       120.00'
                                                                                                                       9.35'




                                                                   25.00'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               X




                                                                                                                                                                              EASEMENT                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      S89°59'55"W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              300.00'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        132.32'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                104.99'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        N0°02'15"E




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 S0°02'15"W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          120.00'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      103                                            104                                                   105                                                  106                                                   107                                                          108                                                                    109                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                28-29-201-012




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         120.00'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     C28




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         N0°02'15"E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            C16




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        134.22'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        3 Parcels
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           133
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          X




                                                                                                                                                                                                                             2.17'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        S0°02'15"W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         120.00'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     134.28'
                                                                                                                                                                                    N89°59'55"E                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          SALT LAKE COUNTY




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          120.00'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          74.93'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     12160 sqft                                    11207 sqft                                       11814 sqft




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    157.76'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  129                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    62 Lots
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          120.00'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         10687 sqft                                             10080 sqft                                                 9120 sqft                                          11040 sqft                                              9120 sqft                                                10560 sqft                                                                10397 sqft
                                                                                                               N4°30'00"E 13




                                                                                                                                                                                      218.41'                                                                            30.00' 30.00'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 12252 sqft                                                  ENTRY No. 8402013 BK:8674 PG:3196
                                                      28-32-127-004                                                                                                                               X


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         S4°35'00"W                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              10638 sqft                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         (LESS AND EXCEPTING PARCEL)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   N4°35'00"E




                                                       DAVID R. &




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    88.08'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           16.36' C1 48.28'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              S0°34'54"W 330.44'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         45.83'
                                                                                                                                                                                                101
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 C41 50.45




                                                    RENAE E. CLAAR                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    10.00'                                                 7.0' PUE (TYP.)
                                                                                                                               95.14'




                                                   ENTRY No. 11604622                                                                                                 20752 sqft                                                                                                                                                                                      CV                                                                                             PU&DE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             7.0' DRAINAGE EASEMENT                                                                                                                                                                                                             30.00' 30.00'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        (TYP.)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              C9




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             8
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    C45                                                               DOMINION ENERGY UTAH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  C1




                                                    BK:10120 PG:8529                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              C44




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           C1
                                                                                                                                                           20' PRIVATE REAR                                                                                                                                                                                             77.43'                                       84.00'                                              76.00'                                  92.00'                                                               76.00'                                                       88.00'                                                                72.07' CV                                                                                                         CV 103.76'                                                                  92.00'               84.00'                                                                   88.00'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          7




                                                                                                                                                           YARD RETENTION                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               S89°57'45"E 565.50'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      N89°57'45"W 378.24'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               30.00'
                                                                                                                                                               EASEMENT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              N0°00'00"E 139.38'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               15.99'                                                                                                                     12625 SOUTH                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    QUESTAR GAS COMPANY dba DOMINION ENERGY
                                                                                                                                                                 220.80'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               656.84'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            436.13'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         UTAH, HEREBY APPROVES THIS PLAT SOLELY FOR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    L2                                                                                                                                                                                                 (PUBLIC- 60' WIDE)                                                                                                                                                                           S89°57'45"E1092.97'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              30.00'
                                                                                                                                                                                               WEST 210.80'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    C4
               HEBER ACRES SUBDIVISION                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   THE PURPOSE OF CONFIRMING THAT THE PLAT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       N0°00'00"E 166.54'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 S89°57'45"E1047.94'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     CONTAINS PUBLIC UTILITY EASEMENTS. DOMINION
                                                                                                                                                                                               PARCEL B




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               172.68'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              123.02'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       X


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          3                            92.27'                                                  91.00'                                                               94.00'                                              98.00'                                                               94.00'                                                                              90.00'                                     76.00'             84.00'                                                                                           93.42'                                                84.00'                                            76.00'                                   75.26'                           C1         30.00'                                                      ENERGY    UTAH    MAY     REQUIRE   ADDITIONAL
                                                                                                                                                                                                          1333 sqft                                                                                                                     C1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    NORTH 142.90'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      CV                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       CV                                                                                        EASEMENTS IN ORDER TO SERVE THIS DEVELOPMENT.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    N0°02'15"E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 A




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             X                                                          X                                                                X                                                    X                                                                       X                                                                              X                                                    X                                                                  X




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   N0°02'15"E
               OWNER / DEVELOPER
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     122.37'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    X                                             X                                               X                                     X

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         THIS APPROVAL DOES NOT CONSTITUTE ABROGATION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       EL




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             S0°02'15"W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               144                                                                 143                                                 142                                                                  141                                                                           140                                                   139                                                                   138
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         N0°02'15"E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  S0°02'15"W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    122.12'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                N0°02'15"E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   92.50'




                                                                                                                                                                   28-29-201-002                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         OR WAIVER OF ANY OTHER EXISTING RIGHTS,




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       S0°34'56"W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     137                                                136                                           135                                         134




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               122.07'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         N0°02'15"E




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        N0°02'15"E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              122.24'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    122.44'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 122.31'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               N0°02'15"E




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  N0°02'15"E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       RC




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         120.98'
                                                                                                                                                                 ROBERT BAKKER
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   t




 OWNER/DEVELOPER                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       11139 sqft                                                          11500 sqft                                                 11983 sqft                                                          11488 sqft                                                                10993 sqft                                              9279 sqft                                                                10251 sqft
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    f




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         OBLIGATIONS     OR    LIABILITIES    INCLUDING




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          136.28'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         136.23'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 150.54'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 sq




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                122.18'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   122.01'
                                                                                                                                                                ENTRY No. 13545893                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               11932 sqft                                           11445 sqft                                     10351 sqft                                  12171 sqft
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           7




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    N0°02'15"E
 IVORY DEVELOPMENT, LLC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         03
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         PA




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         PRESCRIPTIVE   RIGHTS    AND    OTHER   RIGHTS,
                                                                                                                                                                 BK:11106 PG:5727                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        OWNER'S DEDICATION




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     136.18'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       13




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 CV
 978 WOODOAK LANE, SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH 84117                                                                                                                 SURVEY No. 2004-12-0929                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    OBLIGATIONS OR LIABILITIES PROVIDED BY LAW OR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          120.67'
 CONTACT: BRAD MACKAY - (801) 520-9161                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   C27                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                S78°37'34"E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   C1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             51.28'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         EQUITY. THIS APPROVAL DOES NOT CONSTITUTE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      CV 92.19'                                                            91.00'                                                                   94.00'                                             98.00'                                                             94.00'             90.00'                                                                                                             76.00'                                                                    84.00'                           C12
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ACCEPTANCE, APPROVAL OR ACKNOWLEDGEMENT OF                        Know all men by these presents that I/we, the undersigned owner(s) of the
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              812.76'                                                                                     S89°59'55"W 719.19'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         84.00'                                            76.00'                                    89.11'                                     30.00'         L1                                           ANY TERMS CONTAINED IN THE PLAT, INCLUDING                        hereon described tract of land, hereby set apart and subdivide the same into lots
LEGEND                                                                                                                                                                                                                   WEST
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    AREA TO BE DEDICATED TO DRAPER CITY AS A PUBLIC RIGHT OF WAY                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         S89°59'54"W 1112.88'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            THOSE SET FORTH IN THE OWNERS DEDICATION OR                       and streets as shown on this plat and name said plat BAINBRIDGE , and do
                                                                                                                                                         12650 SOUTH STREET                                              20.00'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          THE NOTES, AND DOES NOT CONSTITUTE A
                                               BOUNDARY                                                                                                (60' WIDE PUBLIC ROAD)                                                                                                                                             N70°00'00"W                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          12650 SOUTH STREET                                                                                                                                                                                                          hereby dedicate, grant and convey to Draper City, Utah: (1) all those parts or
                                               SECTION LINE                                                                                               ENTRY NO: 2869313                                                                                                                                               69.00'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         GUARANTEE OF PARTICULAR TERMS OR CONDITIONS
                                               EASEMENT                                                                                                     BK: 76-10 PG:226                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             OF NATURAL GAS SERVICE. FOR            FURTHER                    portions of said tract of land designated as streets, the same to be used as public
                                               RIGHT-OF-WAY LINE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    CARRAWAY LANE                                                                                                                                                        INFORMATION PLEASE CONTACT DOMINION ENERGY                        thoroughfares forever; (2) those certain public utility and drainage easements as
                                               CENTERLINE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          (PUBLIC - 51' WIDE)                                                                                                                                                   UTAH'S RIGHT-OF-WAY DEPARTMENT AT 800-366-8532.                   shown hereon, the same to be used for the installation, maintenance, and
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               COUNTY HEALTH DEPARTMENT
                                               PU & DE                                                                                                                                                                  RECORD OF SURVEY                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                DRAPER ELEMENTARY SUB.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             operation of public utility service lines and drainage; and (3) those parcels
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         QUESTAR GAS COMPANY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ROS: S2022-11-0802
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ENTRY NO. 13817114
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         dba DOMINION ENERGY UTAH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           designated as public open space, parks, trail or easements, or of similar
                                               SECTION MONUMENT (NOT FOUND)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            APPROVED THIS _____ DAY OF_________________________ A.D.,                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           RIVERMARK SUBDIVISION                                                                                                                                                                                                      designation. In witness whereof, we have hereunto set our hands this
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            20_____.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ENTRY NO: 12814899                                                                                                                                    APPROVED THIS _____ DAY OF __________ A.D. 20__                   ____________day of________________, 20_____________.
                                               SECTION MONUMENT (FOUND)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              BK:2018P PG:257
                                                                                                                                                                            COUNTY SURVEYOR                                                                                                                                                      DATE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    BY ______________________
                                               STREET MONUMENT (TO BE SET)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            __________________________________________________________                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   TITLE ____________________
                                               BOUNDARY MARKERS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            DIRECTOR, SALT LAKE COUNTY BOARD OF HEALTH
              CV                               CLEAR VIEW TRIANGLE
                                                                                                                                                                                                             EASEMENT APPROVAL                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  SHEET 1 OF 2                                               MAY 2023
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          CHRISTOPHER P. GAMVROULAS                                  DRAPER CITY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          PRESIDENT, IVORY DEVELOPMENT LLC
SALT LAKE COUNTY FLOOD CONTROL                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       CITY ATTORNEY                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     CITY MAYOR
                                                                                                                                                            WATERPRO                                                                                                                                                       DATE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           LIMITED LIABILITY ACKNOWLEDGMENT
APPROVED THIS _____ DAY OF_________________________ A.D.,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       APPROVED AS TO FORM THIS _____ DAY                                                                                                                                                                                                            PRESENTED TO DRAPER CITY THIS _____ DAY OF ______________________
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                BAINBRIDGE
                                                                                                                                                            CENTURYLINK                                                                                                                                                    DATE                                                                                                                                        OF_________________________ A.D., 20_____.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      STATE OF UTAH                                                                                                                                                                                                          SUBDIVISION PLAT
20_____.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             A.D., 20_____. AT WHICH TIME THIS SUBDIVISION WAS APPROVED AND                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    S.S.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ACCEPTED.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     LOCATED IN THE SE 1/4 OF SECTION 29 & NE 1/4 OF SECTION 32, T3S, R1E,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       COUNTY OF ___________
                                                                                                                                                            ROCKY MOUNTAIN POWER                                                                                                                                           DATE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      SALT LAKE BASE & MERIDIAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               DRAPER CITY, SALT LAKE COUNTY, UTAH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ON THE ____ DAY OF ____________________ A.D. 20____ PERSONALLY APPEARED BEFORE
__________________________________________________________
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ________________________________________                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ME, THE UNDERSIGNED NOTARY PUBLIC, IN AN FOR THE COUNTY OF SALT LAKE, IN
SALT LAKE COUNTY FLOOD CONTROL                                                                                                                              COMCAST CABLE CO.                                                                                                                                              DATE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ____________________________                                                                                                                              _______________________________
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       DRAPER CITY ATTORNEY                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            SAID STATE OF UTAH, CHRISTOPHER P. GAMVROULAS, WHO AFTER BEING DULY SWORN,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ATTEST: DRAPER CITY CLERK                                                                                                                                 MAYOR, DRAPER CITY                                                                                                                      ACKNOWLEDGED TO ME THAT HE IS THE PRESIDENT OF IVORY DEVELOPMENT LLC, A
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       UTAH LLC AND THAT HE SIGNED THE OWNERS DEDICATION FREELY AND VOLUNTARILY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              SALT LAKE COUNTY RECORDER
                     PREPARED BY                                                                                                                                                        SOUTH VALLEY SEWER DISTRICT                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              PLANNING COMMISSION                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ENGINEER'S CERTIFICATE                                                                                                                                                                                                                       FOR AND IN BEHALF OF SAID LIMITED LIABILITY COMPANY FOR THE PURPOSES
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       THEREIN MENTIONED.                                                                                                                                                                     RECORDED #
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              STATE OF UTAH, COUNTY OF SALT LAKE, RECORDED AND FILED AT THE REQUEST OF:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            APPROVED THIS _____ DAY OF_________________________ A.D.,                                                                                                                                                                                                                        I HEREBY CERTIFY THAT THIS OFFICE HAS EXAMINED THIS PLAT


            FOCUS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        MY COMMISSION EXPIRES:________________                                                                                            ________________________________
                                                                                                                                                                            APPROVED THIS _____ DAY OF_________________________ A.D.,                                                                                                                                                                                                       20_____ BY THE DRAPER CITY PLANNING COMMISSION                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   AND IT IS CORRECT IN ACCORDANCE WITH INFORMATION ON FILE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  A NOTARY PUBLIC COMMISSIONED IN
                                                                                                                                                                            20_____.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         IN THIS OFFICE.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           UTAH RESIDING IN ____________ COUNTY                   DATE:                  TIME:                  BOOK:                      PAGE:
                                                                        ã
         ENGINEERING AND SURVEYING, LLC                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                MY COMMISSION No.______________________                                                                                               _________________________________
                   6949 HIGH TECH DRIVE                                                                                                                                     __________________________________________________________                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       PRINTED FULL NAME OF NOTARY                                                                            SALT LAKE COUNTY DEPUTY RECORDER
             MIDVALE, UTAH 84047 PH: (801) 352-0075                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ___________________________________________________________                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ____________________________________________________
                      www.focusutah.com                                                                                                                                     DIRECTOR, SOUTH VALLEY SEWER DISTRICT                                                                                                                                                                                                                           CHAIRMAN, DRAPER CITY PLANNING COMMISSION                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        DATE         DRAPER CITY ENGINEER
                                                                                  LEGEND
                                                                                            BOUNDARY
                                                                                            SECTION LINE
                                                                                            EASEMENT
                                                                                            RIGHT-OF-WAY LINE
                                                                                            CENTERLINE

                                                                                            PU & DE


                                        E 12300 SOUTH
                                                                                            SECTION MONUMENT (NOT FOUND)


                                                                                            SECTION MONUMENT (FOUND)
                                                                                                                                                                                                 BAINBRIDGE
                                                                                                                                                                                                  SUBDIVISION PLAT
                                                                                            STREET MONUMENT (TO BE SET)

                                                                                            BOUNDARY MARKERS
                                                                                                                                                                LOCATED IN THE SE 1/4 OF SECTION 29 & NE14 OF SECTION 32, T3S, R1E,
                                   E 12400 SOUTH
                                                        PARK                           CV   CLEAR VIEW TRIANGLE
                                                                                                                                                                                 SALT LAKE BASE & MERIDIAN
                                                               RD
                                                                                                                                                                           DRAPER CITY, SALT LAKE COUNTY, UTAH
           S FORT ST




                                            SITE LOCATION




                                                                    S 1300 EAST
                       E 12650 S




                                                                                                                                                                                        Curve Table
                                                                                                                                                         CURVE    RADIUS    DELTA       LENGTH   CHORD DIRECTION   CHORD LENGTH

                                                                                                                                  Line Table              C1      380.00    4°35'00"     30.40      N02°17'30"E        30.39
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  10' PU&DE                                 10' PU&DE
                                                                                                                           LINE   DIRECTION     LENGTH    C2       15.00   90°04'37"     23.58      S44°55'27"E        21.23




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             RIGHT OF WAY
                                                                                                                            L1    S89°59'54"W    21.00    C3       15.00   36°14'49"     9.49       N71°54'50"E        9.33

                                                                                                                            L2    N90°00'00"E    10.00    C4       60.00   38°45'57"     40.60      N73°10'24"E        39.83




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        7' PU&DE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        7' PU&DE
                                                                                                                            L3    S36°52'06"W    60.00    C5       60.00   50°33'24"     52.94      S62°09'55"E        51.24




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                10' PU&DE
                                                                                                                                                          C6       60.00   63°08'38"     66.12      S05°18'54"E        62.83




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      7' PU&DE
                                                                                                                            L4    S36°52'17"E    60.00
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          LOT
                                                                                                                            L5    N85°02'54"E    23.08    C7       60.00    9°59'18"     10.46     S31°15'04"W         10.45                                                                        LOT
                                                                                                                                                          C8       15.00   36°14'49"     9.49      S18°07'19"W         9.33

                                                                                                                                                          C9       15.00   89°57'40"     23.55      S44°58'55"E        21.21
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   30' CLEAR VIEW TRIANGLE
                                                                                                                                                          C10      60.00   45°40'35"     47.83     N01°18'28"W         46.58                                                          AS PER DCMC 9-27-080(F)

                                                                                                                                                          C11      15.00   90°32'41"     23.70      S44°41'25"E        21.31                                10' PU&DE                             10' PU&DE
                                                                                                                                                          C12     215.00   11°22'32"     42.69      S84°18'50"E        42.62

                                                                                                                                                          C13      15.00   90°02'15"     23.57     S45°01'07"W         21.22                                    RIGHT OF WAY
                                                                                                                                                          C14      15.00   90°00'05"     23.56      S45°00'03"E        21.21

                                                                                                                                                          C15      15.00   90°02'20"     23.57     S45°01'05"W         21.22                     TYPICAL BUILDING SETBACKS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 N.T.S.
                                                                                                                                                          C16     380.00    4°35'05"     30.41     S02°17'27"W         30.40

                                                                                                                                                          C17      15.00   94°32'45"     24.75      S42°41'23"E        22.04

                                                                                                                                                          C18      15.00   90°02'20"     23.57      N45°01'05"E        21.22

                                                                                                                                                          C19      15.00   89°57'40"     23.55     N44°58'55"W         21.21

                                                                                                                                                          C20      60.00   61°08'28"     64.03     N54°43'00"W         61.03

                                                                                                                                                          C21      60.00   24°55'54"     26.11     S82°14'49"W         25.90

                                                                                                                                                          C22      15.00   20°15'22"     5.30       N79°54'33"E        5.28

                                                                                                                                                          C23      15.00   89°57'40"     23.55     N44°58'55"W         21.21

                                                                                                                                                          C24      15.00   90°02'20"     23.57      N45°01'05"E        21.22

                                                                                                                                                          C25      15.00   89°57'40"     23.55      S44°58'55"E        21.21

                                                                                                                                                          C26     320.00    4°35'05"     25.61      N02°17'27"E        25.60

                                                                                                                                                          C27      15.00   70°31'44"     18.46     S35°15'52"W         17.32

                                                                                                                                                          C28     350.00    4°35'05"     28.01      N02°17'27"E        28.00

                                                                                                                                                          C29      60.00   131°44'57"   137.97      S44°20'39"E       109.52

                                                                                                                                                          C30      15.00   21°24'57"     5.61      S10°49'21"W         5.57

                                                                                                                                                          C31      15.00   53°07'48"     13.91     N26°34'00"W         13.42

                                                                                                                                                          C32      60.00   17°24'17"     18.23     S44°25'34"W         18.16

                                                                                                                                                          C33      60.00   57°48'55"     60.54     S06°48'58"W         58.01

                                                                                                                                                          C34      15.00   53°07'48"     13.91      N26°33'49"E        13.42

                                                                                                                                                          C35      60.00   55°09'13"     57.76      S49°40'06"E        55.55

                                                                                                                                                          C36      60.00   81°54'27"     85.77      N05°16'49"E        78.65

                                                                                                                                                          C37      60.00   286°15'37"   299.77      N89°59'55"E        72.00

                                                                                                                                                          C38      45.00   90°04'37"     70.75      S44°55'27"E        63.68

                                                                                                                                                          C39      45.00   89°57'40"     70.66      S44°58'55"E        63.62

                                                                                                                                                          C40      45.00   90°32'41"     71.11      S44°41'25"E        63.94
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        AL L AND S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       05/11/23
                                                                                                                                                          C41     350.00    4°35'00"     28.00      N02°17'30"E        27.99




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                SS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     UR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           PROFE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        VEY
                                                                                                                                                          C42      60.00   56°31'15"     59.19      N74°29'40"E        56.82
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      No. 12554439
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          183395




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           OR
                                                                                                                                                          C43      60.00   17°27'30"     18.28     N44°24'09"W         18.21                                                                                                                                                     JUSTIN LUNDBERG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     EVAN J. WOOD

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ST
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     AT E        T   AH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            OF U




   OWNER / DEVELOPER
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        SHEET 2 OF 2            MAY 2023
    OWNER/DEVELOPER
    IVORY DEVELOPMENT, LLC
    978 WOODOAK LANE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      BAINBRIDGE
    SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH 84117
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              PRELIMINARY SUBDIVISION PLAT
    (801) 520-9161                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          LOCATED IN THE SE 1/4 OF SECTION 29 & NE 1/4 OF SECTION 32, T3S, R1E,
    CONTACT: BRAD MACKAY                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      SALT LAKE BASE & MERIDIAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        DRAPER CITY, SALT LAKE COUNTY, UTAH



         PREPARED BY                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        SALT LAKE COUNTY RECORDER
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      RECORDED #


 FOCUS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      STATE OF UTAH, COUNTY OF SALT LAKE, RECORDED AND FILED AT THE REQUEST OF:



                                              ã                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       DATE:                   TIME:            BOOK:                          PAGE:
ENGINEERING AND SURVEYING, LLC
        6949 HIGH TECH DRIVE
  MIDVALE, UTAH 84047 PH: (801) 352-0075                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               SALT LAKE COUNTY DEPUTY RECORDER
           www.focusutah.com
    EXHIBIT I
RESIDENT LETTERS
August 21, 2023



Planning Commission – Draper City
1020 E Pioneer Road
Draper, UT 84020

RE: August 24, 2023 Planning Commission Meeting


Draper City Planning Commission,
We would like to express our concern as residents living on 1015 East about how our driveway attaches
to 12600 South. We would like to request that when 12600 South is connected to the new development
(Fitzgerald Property) or when 12600 South is made a dead-end, that our driveway be connected to
12600 South at a 90 degree angle as is normal for most driveways.
Our current driveway is connected to 12600 South at an angle of about 30 degrees or nearly parallel to
the road. We have a very tight turn to negotiate to travel north on 1015 East.
To meet our request, the contractor, or city, would need to pave 12600 South 120 feet east of the
current pavement end. That pavement ends in the middle of the driveway at 993 E 12600 S. The new
pavement would end at the property line found on the east side of 1015 East.
This should be a simple solution if the dead-end street with a turnaround is adopted, or an even simpler
solution if the through street option is adopted.
Please feel free to contact me if you have any questions.
Thank You


Troy Blundell & Sandra Culver
12550 South 1015 East
Draper, Utah
801-547-4884
Email: 9525culver@gmail.com
