                               Development Review Committee
                                  1020 East Pioneer Road
                                     Draper, UT 84020
                                         August 2, 2023

To:             Draper City Planning Commission
                Business Date: August 10, 2023

From:           Development Review Committee

Prepared By: Tevai Haunga, Planner I
             Planning Division
             Community Development Department
             801-576-6522, tevai.haunga@draperutah.gov

Re:     Pinecones and Clover – Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit Request
        Application No.: USE-055-2023
        Applicant:        Jennifer Stratton
        Project Location: 12857 S. 600 E.
        Current Zoning: R3 (Single Family Residential 13,000 ft2 minimum area)
        Acreage:          0.29 Acres (Approximately 12632 ft2)
        Request:          Request for approval of a Home Occupation in the R3 zone
                          for a cottage business making jewelry and selling products
                          online.


BACKGROUND AND SUMMARY
This application is a request for approval of a Home Occupation for approximately
0.29 acres located on the east side of Pheasant Moor Drive, at approximately 12857
S. 600 E., (Exhibit B & C). The property is currently zoned R3. The applicant is
requesting that a Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit be approved for a
cottage business. The applicant is making jewelry in the home.

The property is part of the Whisperwood Cove No. I subdivision and the home was
built in 1993.


ANALYSIS

General Plan and Zoning.

 Table 1                  General Plan and Zoning Designations              Exhibit
 Existing Land            Residential Low/ Medium Density                   Exhibit D
 Use




Pinecones and Clover                                             App. # USE-055-2023
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit         1
 Current Zoning           R3                                                     Exhibit E
 Proposed Use             Single-family Home with a Home Based Business
 Adjacent Zoning
    East                  R3
    West                  R3
    North                 R3
    South                 R3

The Residential Low-Medium Density land use designation is characterized as follows:




According to Draper City Municipal Code (DCMC) Section 9-8-020 the purpose of
the purpose of the R3 zone is to “provide incentives to foster residential development
with little impact on its surroundings and on municipal services, and to generally
preserve the semirural character called for in the density element of the general plan. ”



Pinecones and Clover                                                 App. # USE-055-2023
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit        2
Home Occupation. The applicant is requesting a Home Occupation Conditional Use
Permit to make jewelry at the home. These handcrafted jewelry items will be sold
on various online marketplaces. The DCMC Section 9-34-040 outlines development
standards applicable to all home occupations. Those criteria, along with information
specific to the subject request, are as follows:

        A. Ownership: The home occupation shall be owned and operated by a
            person who resides in the dwelling where the home occupation is located.
            Such person shall be the primary provider of the labor, work, or service
            provided in the home occupation.

            -The proposed Home Occupation, Pinecones and Clover, will be owned
            and operated solely by Jennifer Stratton who owns and resides in the
            home.

        B. Business License: A business license for the home occupation shall be
            obtained from and continually maintained with the city pursuant to title 6,
            chapter 11 of this code.

            -A current business license will be maintained with the City of Draper.

        C. Employees: Members of the family of the owner who reside in the
            dwelling may be employed in the home occupation. Nonfamily or
            nonresident employees shall be limited to one person.

            -There are no non-family, non-resident employees.

        D. Inspection: All facilities shall comply with fire, building, plumbing,
            electrical and all other city, county, state and federal codes. Inspections
            during reasonable hours by city officials may occur as necessary to assure
            compliance with regulations.

            -All facilities will comply with fire, building, plumbing, electrical and all
            other city, county, state and federal codes.

        E. Inventory: No stock in trade, inventory, or other merchandise to exceed
            two hundred fifty (250) square feet shall be kept on the premises. No
            outside storage is allowed.

            -There are no stock in trade, inventory or other merchandise to exceed
            250 square feet kept on premises.

        F. Modification Of Structures Or Yards: There shall be no visible evidence
            from the exterior of a dwelling that it is being used for any other purpose
            than that of a dwelling. No activities shall be carried on outside the
            dwelling in the yard for the benefit of or incidental to the home




Pinecones and Clover                                                 App. # USE-055-2023
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit         3
            occupation. No front yard area shall be altered to provide parking required
            for a home occupation.

            -No modifications will be made to the home or yard.

        G. Nuisance: Tools, items, equipment, or activities conducted within the
            dwelling which is offensive or noxious by reason of the emission of odor,
            smoke, gas, vibration, magnetic interference, or noise shall be prohibited.

            -No tools that are offensive or obnoxious are being used in the home.

        H. Secondary Use: The home occupation shall be clearly incidental and
            secondary to the primary use of the dwelling for residential purposes. The
            home occupation shall not disrupt the normal residential character of the
            neighborhood in which the residence is located. Not more than twenty five
            percent (25%) of the dwelling unit shall be used for the home occupation.

            -This is a secondary use to the primary use of the dwelling. No more than
            25% of the dwelling will be used for the home occupation.

        I. Signs: All signage in a residential area must comply with chapter 26,
           "Signs", of this title.

            -There will be no signs anywhere.

        J. Traffic, Parking, And Access: No home occupation use shall generate
            pedestrian, parking, or vehicular traffic in excess of that customarily
            associated with the zone in which the use is located. All parking shall be
            provided and maintained on site with adequate provision for drop off
            traffic.

            -There is no parking or traffic because customers do not come to the
            home.

        K. Vehicles: Other than the business owner's personal transportation, there
            shall be no vehicles or equipment on the property associated with the
            home occupation which would not normally be found at a residence. No
            signage for the home occupation shall be allowed on vehicles.

            -Only a personal vehicle will be used for business errands.

        L. Yards: Yards surrounding the dwelling and accessory buildings shall not
            be used for any activities or storage of any materials associated with the
            home occupation.

            -There are no accessory buildings used for any business activities.




Pinecones and Clover                                              App. # USE-055-2023
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit      4
        M. Customers: No customers allowed. Children accessing a limited daycare
           or limited preschool facility shall not be considered customers.

            -No customers are coming to the home as all products are sold online.
        N. Utility Demand: The home occupation shall not cause a demand for public
            utilities in excess of that necessarily and customarily provided for
            residential uses.

             -The home occupation will not excessively demand public utilities.

        O. Main Structure: The home occupations shall be conducted, located, and
           contained within the primary structure on the property.

            -The home occupation will occur within the spare bedroom of the primary
            structure.

        P. Single-Family And Multiple-Family Dwellings: Home occupations listed as
            permitted or conditional within this title may be permitted in a single-
            family or a multiple-family dwelling, subject to the standards found within
            this section and section 9-34-060 of this chapter. Businesses within
            multiple-family dwellings shall provide an approval letter from the
            respective homeowners' association, or management company in the case
            of apartments, if the business proposes any employees, customers or
            business vehicles.

            -The home occupation is in a single-family dwelling

        Q. Licensure: Any home occupation involving childcare shall comply with all
            applicable state and local laws and regulations regarding residential
            childcare, including, but not limited to, provisions of the Utah child care
            licensing act, as set forth in Utah Code Annotated section 26-39-101 et
            seq., as amended, and the residential certificate childcare standards as
            set forth in the Utah administrative code section R430-50-1 et seq., as
            amended. In addition, cottage food production operations are regulated
            and inspected by the Utah department of agriculture. Any food related
            home occupation under their jurisdiction must comply with these
            regulations.

            -This home business doesn’t involve childcare. Not applicable.

Criteria For Approval.

The criteria for review and potential approval of a conditional use permit request is
found in Section 9-5-080(E) of the DCMC. This section depicts the standard of
review for such requests as:

        E. Approval Standards: The standards of this subsection shall apply to the
           issuance of a conditional use permit:



Pinecones and Clover                                              App. # USE-055-2023
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit       5
         1. A conditional use permit may be issued for a use to be located within a
           zone where the particular conditional use is allowed by the use
           regulations of the zone.
         2. Reasonable conditions may be imposed as necessary to substantially
           mitigate reasonably anticipated detrimental effects of the proposed use.
           These conditions may include conditions concerning use, construction,
           character, location, landscaping, screening, parking, hours of operation,
           and other matters relating to the purposes and objectives of this section.
           Such conditions shall be expressly set forth in the motion authorizing the
           conditional use permit.
         3. If the reasonably anticipated detrimental effects of a proposed conditional
           use cannot be substantially mitigated by the imposition of reasonable
           conditions to achieve compliance with applicable standards, the
           conditional use may be denied.
         4. The following factors shall be reviewed and considered in determining
           whether a conditional use permit application should be approved,
           approved with conditions, or denied because reasonable conditions cannot
           be imposed to achieve compliance with applicable standards:
             a. The harmony and compliance of the proposed use with the objectives
                and requirements of the city's general plan and this title;
             b. The suitability of the specific property for the proposed use;
             c. Whether the proposed use or facility may be injurious to potential or
                existing development in the vicinity;
             d. The economic impact of the proposed facility or use on the
                surrounding area;
             e. The aesthetic impact of the proposed facility or use on the
                surrounding area;
             f. The safeguards proposed or provided to ensure adequate utilities,
                transportation access, drainage, parking, loading space, lighting,
                screening, landscaping, open space, fire protection, and pedestrian
                and vehicular circulation;
             g. The safeguards provided or proposed to prevent noxious or offensive
                emissions such as noise, glare, dust, pollutants and odor from the
                proposed facility or use; and
             h. The impact of the proposed facility or use on the health, safety, and
                welfare of the city, the area, and persons owning or leasing property in
                the area.
         5. The planning commission may request additional information as may be
           reasonably needed to determine whether the requirements of this
           subsection E can be met.


REVIEWS

Planning Division Review. The Draper City Planning Division has completed their
review of the Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit submission. Comments from
this division, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.




Pinecones and Clover                                             App. # USE-055-2023
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit      6
Engineering and Public Works Divisions Review. The Draper City Engineering and
Public Works Divisions have completed their reviews of the «R Home Occupation
Conditional Use Permit submission. Comments from these divisions, if any, can be
found in Exhibit A.

Building Division Review. The Draper City Building Division has completed their
review of the Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit submission. Comments from
this division, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Fire Division Review. The Draper City Fire Marshal has completed his review of the
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit.


STAFF RECOMMENDATION
Staff recommends that the Planning Commission review the request based on the
findings listed below and the criteria for approval, or denial as listed within the staff
report. The Planning Commission should also review the request, hear from the
applicant, and receive public comment prior to making a decision.

If the Planning Commission decides to approve the request, staff recommends they
include the following conditions of approval:

        1.      That all business requirements of the Draper City Engineering, Public
                Works Building, Business Licensing, Planning and Fire Divisions are
                satisfied throughout the operation of the business.
        2.      A business license shall be maintained for the life of the business.
        3.      Customers are not allowed to come to the property.

The findings for approval as are follows:

        1. Reasonable mitigation measures can be placed on the conditional use to
           alleviate anticipated detrimental effects.

The findings for denial as are follows:
       1. Reasonable mitigation measures cannot be placed on the conditional use
             to alleviate anticipated detrimental effects.


MODEL MOTIONS

Sample Motion for Approval – I move that we approve the Home Occupation
Conditional Use Permit, as requested by Jennifer Stratton, representing application
USE-055-2023 based on the findings and subject to the conditions listed in the Staff
Report dated August 2, 2023.

Sample Motion for Modified Approval– I move that we approve the Home
Occupation Conditional Use Permit ,as requested by Jennifer Stratton, application
USE-055-2023, based on the findings and subject to the conditions listed in the



Pinecones and Clover                                              App. # USE-055-2023
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit      7
Staff Report dated August 2, 2023 and as modified by the findings and conditions
below:

        1. List any additional findings and conditions…

Sample Motion for Denial – I move that we deny the Home Occupation Conditional
Use Permit as requested by Jennifer Stratton, application USE-055-2023, based on
the findings listed in the Staff Report dated August 2, 2023.




Pinecones and Clover                                        App. # USE-055-2023
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit     8
                                  EXHIBIT A
                             DEPARTMENT REVIEWS

REVIEWS ARE NOT MEANT TO BE AN ALL INCLUSIVE LIST OF POSSIBLE
COMMENTS OR CONDITIONS.

Planning Division Review.

      1. No additional comments provided.

Engineering and Public Works Divisions Review.

      1. The present and future requirements for transportation, traffic, water,
         sewer, and other utilities for the subject site do not appear to be
         detrimentally impacted as described. Given the location and proposed
         use, the use is not anticipated to generate a significant impact to water,
         sewer, or other potential utilities.
      2. The number of trips generated by the home owner/employees will not
         have a detrimental impact to traffic in the area due no employees and no
         customers visiting the house. The applicant has indicated product will be
         produced within the residence but will be sold at craft fairs or other points
         of sale locations. With the applicant’s no customers and no additional
         employees, no significant impact to traffic is anticipated with the proposed
         use.
      3. No additional parking is anticipated for employees where the applicant
         being the only employee. The applicant indicated no changes to the
         existing home use or parking. Materials will be brought to the house by
         the owner and delivered to the point of sale as part of the process, with
         no deliveries or truck traffic expected. Parking on 13590 South may
         impact traffic if it is during poor weather or if there are other cars parked
         on the opposite side of the street nearby. However, based on the
         information from the applicant, no significant impact to parking is
         anticipated with the proposed use.
      4. The proposed use does not appear detrimental to the health, safety, or
         general welfare of persons residing or working in the vicinity, or injurious
         to the property or improvements in the vicinity.


Building Division Review.

      1. No additional comments provided.

Fire Division Review.

      1. 2A-10BC Fire Extinguishers required. The extinguisher needs to be a
         serviceable type meaning metal head and metal neck. Extinguishers need
         to located in a conspicuous location where the will be readily accessible
         and immediately available for use. Placed on every level of the home. If in
   cabinet or not the extinguisher or cabinet needs to be mounted so that
   the top is more than five(5) feet above the floor.

2. There shall be single station inter connected smoke detectors in good
   working condition on each level occupied by the clients. Battery operated
   smoke detectors shall be, permitted if the home demonstrates testing,
   maintenance, and battery replacement to insure continued operation of
   the smoke.

3. Visible Addressing Required. New and existing buildings shall have
   approved address numbers plainly legible and visible from the street
   fronting the property. These numbers shall contrast with their
   background.
   EXHIBIT B
VICINITY MAP
 EXHIBIT C
AERIAL MAP
  EXHIBIT D
LAND USE MAP
 EXHIBIT E
ZONING MAP
EXHIBIT F
SITE PLAN
EXHIBIT G
PRODUCTS
