MINUTES OF THE DRAPER CITY PLANNING COMMISSION MEETING HELD ON
THURSDAY, JULY 13, 2023 IN THE DRAPER CITY COUNCIL CHAMBERS

PARTICIPATING: Andrew Adams, Chairman
               Craig Hawker, Vice-Chair
               Commission Member Gary Ogden
               Commission Member Lisa Fowler
               Commission Member Susan Nixon
               Alternate Commission Member Kendra Shirey

ABSENT:              Commission Member Mary Squire

STAFF PRESENT: Jennifer Jastremsky, Community Development Director
               Mike Barker, City Attorney
               Spencer DuShane, Assistant City Attorney
               Brien Maxfield, Senior Engineer Manager
               Tevai Haunga, City Planner
               Amie Salazar, Office Manager

6:30 PM Business Meeting

Chair Andrew Adams called the meeting to order.

1.     Action Item: Approve Planning Commission Meeting Minutes for May 11, 2023
       (Administrative Action)

Motion: Commissioner Hawker moved to APPROVE the Planning Commission Meeting
Minutes for May 11, 2023.

Second: Commissioner Ogden.

Vote: A roll call was taken with the Commissioners voting 5-to-0 in favor of the motion.
Commissioners Fowler, Ogden, Nixon, Shirey, and Hawker voted "Aye". The motion passed
unanimously.

2.     Public Hearing:        Bruce Creations Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit
       (Administrative Action).
       On the Request of Leslie Bruce for a Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit for a Cottage
       Business Making Homemade Crafts to Sell. The Property is located at approximately 14205
       South Orgill Band Road in the RM (Multi-Family Residential) Zone and the South Mountain
       Agreement. Application: USE-048-2023. Staff Contact: Jennifer Jastremsky at (801) 576-
       6328 or jennifer.jastremsky@draperutah.gov.

Community Development Director, Jennifer Jastremsky, presented the Staff Report and stated that
the property is located within South Mountain, which means it is part of the South Mountain
Development Agreement and Design Guidelines. The request is being reviewed under the previous
Code that was in place when South Mountain was approved. A close-up of the property was
displayed. She explained that it is within the Residential Medium Density Land Use Designation and
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
July 13, 2023
Page 2


the RM Zoning Designation. The business will make homemade crafts with the majority of the work
being done in the home. There is a small saw that will be used in the garage. The crafts will be sold
off-site at places such as fairs and festivals. The applicant does not plan to have customers come to
the home and the resident will do all of the work.

Commissioner Hawker asked if the Conditional Use Permit will allow customers to park on the site
in the future. The neighborhood has a challenging parking situation. Ms. Jastremsky stated that this
could be clarified with the applicant. However, if there is a concern, a condition could be added to
specify that customers are never allowed to come to the home.

The applicant, Leslie Bruce, was present and stated that she is aware of the parking situation since
she lives there. The only people who will ever park there would be her friends or family who may
also be customers.

Chair Adams opened the public hearing. There were no public comments. The public hearing was
closed.

Motion: Commissioner Ogden moved to APPROVE the home occupation Conditional Use
Permit as requested by Leslie Bruce, Application USE-048-2023, subject to the following:

Findings:

       1.      Reasonable mitigation measures can be placed on the conditional use to alleviate
               anticipated detrimental effects.

Conditions:

       1.      All requirements of the Draper City Fire Department, Building Division, and
               Business License Division shall be satisfied throughout the operation of the home
               occupation on the Property.

       2.      The home occupation is required to maintain approval and adequate licensure
               from any and all necessary agencies.

Second: Commissioner Fowler.

Vote: A roll call was taken with the Commissioners voting 5-to-0 in favor of the motion.
Commissioners Fowler, Ogden, Nixon, Shirey, and Hawker voted "Aye". The motion passed
unanimously.

3.     Public Hearing: Blankenstein Court Fence Conditional Use Permit (Administrative
       Action).
       On the Request of Teri Palmer, for a Conditional Use Permit in order to put up a 10-foot Chain
       Link Fence around a Sport Court located in the Backyard of the Property located at 12962
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
July 13, 2023
Page 3


       South Cindy Lane. Application USE-049-2023. Staff Contact is Tevai Haunga, 801-675-
       6522, tevai.haunga@draperutah.gov.

City Planner, Tevai Haunga, presented the Staff Report and stated this is a request for approval of a
Conditional Use Permit. A vicinity map was presented showing the area off of 1300 East. An aerial
map of the site was also displayed for the property west of Cindy Lane. The land use designation is
Residential Low Medium Density with the zoning of RA2, which is a single-family residential 20,000
square-foot minimum area. The applicant is requesting a 10-foot chain-link fence around the sports
court in their backyard. The fence will sit 4 ½ feet from the side and rear property lines to enclose
their basketball/pickleball court. Staff received no public comment.

Commissioner Fowler asked what the Code says regarding the distance of the fence from the edge of
the property. Ms. Jastremsky replied that the fence can be on the property line. It does not have to
be 4 ½ feet in; therefore, there is no violation. A question was raised regarding the need for a building
permit for the fence. Ms. Jastremsky clarified that anything over seven feet requires a permit because
the posts will have a foundation element. The comment was made that obtaining a building permit
should be a condition of approval. Ms. Jastremsky stated that a permit will be required regardless.

The applicant, Aaron Blankenstein identified himself as the property owner and had nothing further
to add.

In response to a question raised, Mr. Blankenstein clarified that currently, the fence goes around the
court on three sides.

Chair Adams opened the public meeting. There were no public comments. The public hearing was
closed.

Commissioner Ogden commented that when playing pickleball it is frustrating when the ball goes
outside the court. He had no problem with what was proposed and observed that it is mostly contained
on the property.

Motion: Commissioner Nixon moved to APPROVE the Conditional Use Permit, as requested
by Teri Palmer, Application USE-049-2023, subject to the following, and adding condition
number three that a building permit is obtained:

Findings:

       1.      Reasonable mitigation measures can be placed on the conditional use to alleviate
               anticipated detrimental effects.
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
July 13, 2023
Page 4


Conditions:

       1.      That all requirements of the Draper City Engineering, Building, and Planning
               Divisions are satisfied throughout the development of the fence, including
               permitting.

       2.      Unless there is substantial action under a conditional use permit within one year
               from the date of its issuance, said permit shall expire and shall have no further
               force or effect. A written request may be submitted to the Community
               Development Department prior to expiration of the Conditional Use Permit for
               an extension of up to six (6) months, subject to approval of the Planning
               Commission, provided substantial action is shown toward establishing the
               conditional use and the requirements for extension under Section 9-5-030 of this
               chapter are met.

       3.      The applicant obtain a Building Permit as required for the fence.

Second: Commissioner Shirey.

Vote: A roll call was taken with the Commissioners voting 5-to-0 in favor of the motion.
Commissioners Fowler, Ogden, Nixon, Shirey, and Hawker voted "Aye". The motion passed
unanimously.

4.     Public Hearing: Bainbridge Preliminary Subdivision Plat (Administrative Action). On
       the Request of Brad Mackay, Representing Ivory Development, for a Preliminary Subdivision
       Plat on 22.39 acres of land located at 1085 East 12650 South in the R5 (Single-Family
       Residential) Zone. Application SUBD-186-2023. Staff Contact is Jennifer Jastremsky, 801-
       576-6328, jennifer.jastremsky@draperutah.gov.

Ms. Jastremsky presented the Staff Report and stated that the Planning Commission reviewed the
matter late last year for a Development Agreement Review. The Development Agreement was
approved by the City Council. The applicant is now requesting Preliminary Plat approval. The
subject property is located directly east of City Hall. The City purchased five acres of the original
Fitzgerald Farm. The applicant, Ivory Homes, is looking to develop the bottom portion, which is just
over 22 acres in size. The property has historically been used for farming and all of the structures
that were used for farming have since been torn down. The subject property is located in the
Residential Medium High Density designation and the R5 Zoning District. The R5 Zone has an
8,000-square-foot lot minimum. The Development Agreement requires lots to be at least 9,000 square
feet in size with at least three lots being one-half acre. The 62-lot conceptual layout that was included
with the Development Agreement was presented.

Ms. Jastremsky displayed the currently proposed 62-lot plat, which complies with the Development
Agreement. The smallest lot is 9,120 square feet in size, which is slightly above the minimum. The
applicant is proposing five lots that are 20,000 square feet in size. All of the lots on the west side are
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
July 13, 2023
Page 5


one-half acre in size and were required to be one-half acre as part of the Development Agreement
concept. The largest lot is 20,752 square feet in size. All roads are public streets and 60 feet wide.
There was one modification from the concept, which was the connection to 12600 South. 12600
South is an existing stub road. When the developer was doing the engineering and design work, he
realized that all the drainage and utilities needed to go to 12650 South. The applicants are proposing
to put a road down to 12650 South with a detention pond.

The proposal included a 20-foot-wide pedestrian trail and an emergency access easement connecting
to 12600 South. As currently designed, it does not comply with Code. The Code provides two
options. They can either put it through and connect or provide a cul-de-sac on 12600 South and make
it a dead-end street with a turnaround and have pedestrian access into the neighborhood. A condition
of approval was included requiring one of the two scenarios or amending the Development Agreement
to allow for an alternative scenario. That would have to be done prior to approval of the Final Plat.

Commissioner Hawker asked if this particular plat was part of the Development Agreement they
originally looked at. He also asked if the City Council has seen the new proposal. Ms. Jastremsky
responded that not connecting to 12600 South is not part of the Development Agreement. If it met
the Code with this design there would not be an issue with it being in the Development Agreement or
not. This specific design does not meet Code. The applicant has some options to help meet Code.
One alternative allows them not to connect in which case there would be a turnaround requirement.
The condition of approval included in the Staff Report gives the applicant time to decide which option
to pursue if the City Council is willing to approve a Development Agreement to allow for an
alternative design. If the City Council is unwilling to approve an alternative design, they would have
to modify it to meet Code. Commissioner Hawker asked about the current design and where the stub
roads will be located that will go out of the subdivision. Ms. Jastremsky explained that there would
be two connections at 12650 South. A stub road would also be provided to the north that would
connect to the City-owned property. At this time, the City does not have a road to Pioneer Road,
however, eventually, there will be a connection. The two entrances were found to meet Fire Code in
terms of having two points of access. Commissioner Hawker asked about the public and stated that
previously there was clamor about the road going through. Ms. Jastremsky confirmed that the
neighbors on 12600 South did not want the road to go through. The current design is an improvement
for those neighbors.

Commissioner Nixon asked if the cul-de-sac would be located on Lot 102. Ms. Jastremsky stated
that they would have to amend the design. She identified two half-acre lots and stated that the lots
along 12600 South are not designated as having to be one-half-acre in size in the development
agreement, which gives them some room to work with. With respect to turnarounds, the lots
potentially go down to 10,000 or 9,000 square feet when they are calculating for a turnaround.

Commissioner Ogden asked about the expected traffic flow and the potential impact on the school.
He stated that it gets very busy on school days. To add an additional 50 to 60 lots seemed excessive.
He asked if there was any traffic data on that. Senior Engineer Manager, Brien Maxfield, reported
that typical engineering standards are one peak hour trip per lot and up to nine daily trips per
household. Essentially, they are putting that many during the peak hour although it differs from
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
July 13, 2023
Page 6


afternoon school pickup times. In the morning, there could be additional congestion. The idea was
that most people will probably go up to Pioneer Road once the connection goes through to avoid
school traffic. Until that happens, it will add congestion in front of the school. Mr. Maxfield stated
that there is a stub road there currently but the City owns the property between Pioneer Road and the
stub road. The City intended to eventually have a stub road or connect the roads. The City's ultimate
plans for that parcel will include a connection to the stub road.

Commissioner Nixon supported road connectivity and was of the opinion that the proposed access
serves no purpose. She was in favor of the connection.

Commissioner Hawkins asked if there are sidewalks on both sides of the street. Ms. Jastremsky
confirmed that there will be. It was noted that there will be sidewalks on both sides of the street on
the portion of the property that goes to 12650 South.

The applicant, Brad Mackay from Ivory Development, asked the Commission to return to the Master
Development Agreement (“MDA”) Concept Plan. He noted that all of the utilities are on 12650
South. Their presentation to staff at the start of the Preliminary Plat was to run utilities down the side
yards of lots thus creating more open space for the City to maintain or they construct a road to connect
to 12650 South so the utilities could be run in a road. Staff and City management preferred the road
connecting to 12650 South. They also preferred to not have the connection on 12600 South. The
Code is the issue as it requires connectivity. To satisfy the Code, they placed the 20-foot-wide fire
access road and trail connectivity through 12600 South so it does not impact the existing neighbors.
For that reason, they moved the current plan forward. If they do a cul-de-sac, there is nearly enough
room on the existing right-of-way of 12600 South. Currently, they are only getting fire access out of
the end of the street, which they currently do not have. They do not presently have a cul-de-sac, a
fire access turnaround, or any other improvements on the street. At the very least they will be
providing connectivity for pedestrians and fire access to and from 12600 South. They are hoping to
move forward with that. If approval is granted tonight, it will be based on the City Council's decision
to waive the Code requirements. With this development, the Development Agreement has to come
after Preliminary Plat approval.

Mr. Mackay commented that in comparing lot sizes, these are much larger. The design features a
much more efficient layout, which resulted in larger lots. The underlying zone requires 8,000 square
feet while the current average is greater than 9,000. Their goal was to get as large of lots as possible
with an efficient layout and place them in the best location possible to allow the City to maintain the
utilities properly. He felt they had done a good job of balancing all of the issues and presenting a
plan that is better than the initial concept.

Chair Adams for clarification on the number of lots in this project. Mr. Mackay clarified that there
are 62 lots proposed in two different groupings of lot numbers. Chair Adams asked about the purpose
of providing one-half-acre lots. Mr. Mackay recollected that the City requested that. The
Development Agreement does not specify that they are required but indicates that there must be three
20,000-square-foot consistent with the MDA. The MDA shows them in the current location on the
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
July 13, 2023
Page 7


Concept Plan. The current plan includes five. Chair Adams observed that there could be large homes
next to small cottage lots.

Chair Adams opened the public hearing.

Carol Sue Johnson expressed concern about two roads emptying on 12650 South. She stated that at
3:30 p.m. there are bumper-to-bumper cars from Fort Street to the school in the driving lane waiting
for students. Motorists have to go into the turn lane to get past them. When you get to the entrance
to the parking lot of the school there is bumper-to-bumper traffic in the turn lane facing you coming
from the east. She stated that it is a terrible situation. She felt that to add two more roads onto that
was lunacy.

Jarom Call was excited that the plan is ultimately coming up to Pioneer Road. He asked when the
connection will be made and why the plan did not meet City Code.

There were no further public comments. Chair Adams closed the public hearing.

Mr. Mackay reported that with respect to traffic onto 12650 South, he understands that there is an
elementary school there. Regardless of whether there are one or two access points there, the same
traffic will most likely go onto 12650 South. Having two access points will spread that traffic out
into two locations and help disperse it differently, which is better than having one access point on
12650 South. As soon as the City decides what to do with the acreage they purchased, the road to
Pioneer Road will be the preferred route for both morning and evening from the subdivision because
it will most likely be the fastest route to and from major arterial roads. Mr. Mackay commented on
the 12600 South and stated that there is a City ordinance that requires it to be connected to the
subdivision if there is an existing street or it has to be terminated at a cul-de-sac, which is the City’s
only is allowed fire apparatus turnaround. The International Fire Code (“IFC”) includes additional
access apparatus roads that can be allowed. A 20-foot access road complies with the IFC and is an
improved use for fire access connecting the existing 12600 South to the new Bainbridge Subdivision.
The only difference is that City Code would require a variance to allow that. The proposed
Development Agreement would include that language and go to City Council to allow the variance.

Commissioner Nixon reported that the Fire Department requires an unobstructed minimum road
width of 26 feet, excluding the shoulders. The proposed road is only 20 feet wide. Mr. Maxfield
responded that the fire accesses to the subdivision are the two connections to 12650 South. The Fire
Marshall does not anticipate ever needing to use the 20-foot trail/emergency access. He indicated
that any apparatus access to the subdivision will be through the streets. The comment was made that
12600 South does not meet the requirements, which is where the cul-de-sac has to be. Mr. Maxfield
explained that currently, it is a stub road with the intent to eventually continue into future
development. Currently, the stub road does not meet City standards to terminate as a dead-end street,
which would require a turnaround. The City only has one standard for a public street turnaround,
which is a cul-de-sac. Mr. Maxfield presented examples of cul-de-sacs and hammerheads that are
typically used in private situations. The public road standard is adhered to for public roads.
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
July 13, 2023
Page 8


In response to a question raised, Mr. Maxfield reported that two different Codes are at play. Because
they do not want to connect to 12600 South there is no longer a future connection, it becomes a dead-
end street. The Code does not allow a dead-end street without a turnaround. A question was raised
regarding how a private owner, who is not part of the subdivision, can be forced to put a cul-de-sac
from Fort Street to 12600 South. Mr. Maxfield explained that if there is an available stub street it
must be connected to the subdivision. When the original concept was created, it showed a connection
to all of the stub streets. The Concept Plan showed a connection to the stub street and a future
connection to Pioneer Road. During the design element, they found that a connection to 12650 South
on the west was preferred over the connection to 12600 South, which is how it was submitted to the
City. Staff noted that the current site plan meets neither the connection requirement in Code nor the
cul-de-sac requirement. It was acknowledged that designs must be Code-compliant.

A question was raised as to whether 12600 South is narrower than a normal public street which would
create issues. Mr. Maxfield explained that the existing 12600 South does not meet the current right-
of-way section design. It has more asphalt than the local street standard but does not have curb,
gutter, sidewalk, or park strips. The right-of-way is slightly narrower than the standard 60-foot right-
of-way, but the asphalt is wider than what the City would connect to. The understanding was that if
approved, a condition would be added requiring the applicant to set aside a connection/cul-de-sac
area to allow for 12600 South on Ivory Development's property. Ms. Jastremsky confirmed that was
the case. She referenced condition of approval number four, which provides three options which are
as follows:

   •   Provide a connection to 12600 South;
   •   Provide the cul-de-sac at the end of 12600 South so that it can be a dead end that is Code
       compliant; or
   •   Amend the Development Agreement, which would require Council approval and Planning
       Commission review.

A question was raised as to whether off of 12650 South for sight lines if there will be putting in
anything with fence lines. It was noted that the sight line at 300 East and 13800 South is problematic.
There was concern that similar problems will arise as a result. Mr. Maxfield explained that no fences
are proposed as part of the subdivision. It was noted that the City does not have residential fencing
requirements. Condition number five was referenced. Mr. Maxfield stated that staff had concerns
about where the applicants are proposing to place the City basin, fencing, and landscaping. That
condition was added for that reason. Staff still had questions and concerns with regard to how that
will look in the final design. The desire was to prevent fences from being placed in the sight distance.
Staff continued to work on getting a final design for the detention basin area.

Commissioner Fowler noted that there is a retention pond on the parcel. She commented that when
the request was first presented, there were a lot of concerns raised by residents who live on 12600
South about additional traffic. Ivory Homes is now trying to mitigate that by placing the exit points
on 12650 South. She wondered which residents they should listen to – those who live on 12600 South
or 12650 South. Commissioner Nixon had difficulty approving something that does not comply with
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
July 13, 2023
Page 9


the Code and going with the Amended Development Agreement. In her mind that is forcing the hand
of the City Council.

Mr. Mackay stated that the changes are the result of a request of Draper City Management. The Code
Amendment and Site Plan were requested on behalf of the City. He referenced the aerial map and
identified the location of the proposed cul-de-sac. The intent was to maintain what exists to the extent
possible.

Commissioner Fowler recalled that a question was raised during the public hearing regarding when
the City will build the road north from the subdivision. She asked if the City could schedule that
build sooner than later as the development happens. Mr. Maxfield drew from past examples and
stated that the City is currently working on a Station Area Plan. It is mandated by State law that they
look at the area around TRAX and commuter rail stations. They are in the process of finishing that
plan and will lay out a concept of what the City may do with the parcel. At present, however, there
is no funding or concept for what will be done with the property.

Chair Adams asked why the stub road cannot be put in now as an access road. Mr. Maxfield stated
that the biggest issue would be spending money just once. If they build a road now and it doesn’t fit
in the planned development it will be undesirable to tear up a relatively new road and move it to a
new location. If they build something now, it may not fit with what they are trying to do. The Code
was adopted to avoid these problems.

There was discussion on following the Code or trying to amend the Code. Chair Adams was
concerned about having only two access points and the road never going in. He asked about the
walkway being wide enough to be a fire access road. Mr. Maxfield commented that at the access
there are typically removable bollards.

Commissioner Nixon commented that the 20-foot access serves no purpose. They should either cul-
de-sac it or connect it. She asked if the cul-de-sac would be 20 feet wide with a turnout or wider.
Mr. Maxfield reported that the cul-de-sac is an 80-foot asphalt turnaround. The standard is a 100-
foot right-of-way. They would have to look at how it would be positioned at the end of 12600 South
to determine the best placement and how it would look. The proposed conditions of approval were
referenced. Commissioner Fowler did not consider them to violate the Code. Chair Adams explained
that they are going out of order. The Development Agreement will be amended based on what is
decided tonight. Ms. Jastremsky stated that condition of approval number four is requiring that they
comply with Code or amend the Development Agreement. Commissioner Nixon felt that the options
should be limited to one or two.

Procedural issues were discussed. The Commission further discussed the conditions and their
responsibility versus the City Council. The City Council could decide to change the length of the cul-
de-sac. The Planning Commission cannot deny it because both connections comply with the Code.
City Attorney, Mike Barker concurred. He explained that both proposed connections potentially meet
the Code.
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
July 13, 2023
Page 10


Commissioner Hawker commented that the State wants large parcels like this one to be highly dense
next to TRAX stations. This was a good opportunity to work with the developer on a situation that
will benefit both Ivory Development and the City. He felt this was a good alternative for the City.
Commissioner Ogden reported that the reason the City purchased the five-acre parcel was to prevent
townhomes or some other high-density housing from going into the land adjacent to Pioneer Road.
The original plan was also to have high density. There have been a series of compromises in an effort
to protect the Pioneer Road corridor, give Ivory a good return on their investment, and get a good
product. Chair Adams liked the proposed plat better because of the lot sizes. He also felt that it flows
better. He also liked having two access points near a school.

Motion: Commissioner Fowler moved to APPROVE the Preliminary Subdivision Plat, as
requested by Brad Mackay, representing Ivory Development for Bainbridge Preliminary
Subdivision Plat, Application SUBD-186-2023, based on the following:

Findings:

       1.      The proposed subdivision plat complies with DCMC Section 17-3-040(A).

       2.      The proposed subdivision plat complies with the standards and criteria found in
               Draper City Municipal Code, including, but not limited to, the subdivision
               ordinance, the Land Use Ordinance, General Plan, Master Street Plan, and City
               Standard Specifications and Design Criteria.

Conditions:

       1.      That all requirements of the Draper City Engineering, Public Works, Building,
               Planning, and Fire Divisions are satisfied throughout the development of the site
               and the construction of all buildings on the site, including permitting.

       2.      That all requirements of the geotechnical report are satisfied throughout the
               development of the site and the construction of all buildings on the site.

       3.      Address the outstanding redlines in Exhibit A with the Final Subdivision Plat
               submission.

       4.      Amend the drawings with the final subdivision plat submission to either: 1)
               provide a road connection to 12600 S per DCMC Section 17-5-030(A), 2) provide
               a cul-de-sac or other alternative turn around with a paved and fenced pedestrian
               access to 12600 S per DCMC Section 17-5-030(F), or 3) amend the development
               agreement to provide another alternative.

       5.      Work with the City on a final design for the detention pond landscaping and
               maintenance with the final subdivision plat submission.
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
July 13, 2023
Page 11


       6.     Per DCMC Section 17-3-060, after preliminary plat approval has been granted,
              the subdivider may apply for final plat approval. If the subdivider has not
              applied for approval of the final plat within one (1) year of the date of preliminary
              plat approval, the preliminary plat shall be void. This time period may be
              extended up to twelve (12) months for good cause shown if the subdivider
              petitions the Planning Commission for an extension prior to the expiration date;
              however, only one (1) 12-month extension may be granted.

Second: Commissioner Hawker.

Vote: A roll call was taken with the Commissioners voting 5-to-0 in favor of the motion.
Commissioners Fowler, Ogden, Nixon, Shirey, and Hawker voted "Aye". The motion passed
unanimously.

5.     Adjournment.

Photos were taken by Ms. Jastremsky of the Planning Commission Members for Draper Days.

Chair Adams suggested that the City look at how pickleball courts are done in backyards. There are
issues with noise coming that need to be addressed. He suggested that they limit the size and number
of courts.

Motion: Commissioner Fowler moved to ADJOURN. The motion passed with the unanimous
consent of the Commission.

Vote: The motion passed with the unanimous consent of the Commission.

The meeting adjourned at 7:33 p.m.
