MINUTES OF THE DRAPER CITY PLANNING COMMISSION MEETING HELD ON
THURSDAY, AUGUST 24, 2023 IN THE DRAPER CITY COUNCIL CHAMBERS

PARTICIPATING: Andrew Adams, Chair
               Commission Member Mary Squire
               Commission Member Susan Nixon
               Commission Member Lisa Fowler
               Alternate Commission Member Kendra Shirey

ABSENT:              Craig Hawker, Vice-Chair
                     Commission Member Gary Ogden

STAFF PRESENT: Jennifer Jastremsky, Community Development Director
               Spencer DuShane, City Attorney
               Todd Draper, Planning Manager
               Tevai Haunga, City Planner
               Brien Maxfield, Senior Engineer Manager
               Amie Salazar, Office Manager
               Brad Jensen, Project Manager – Parks and Recreation

6:30 PM Business Meeting

Chair Andrew Adams called the meeting to order.

1.     Action Item: Approve Planning Commission Meeting Minutes for July 13, 2023.
       (Administrative Action)

Motion: Commissioner Squire moved to APPROVE the Planning Commission Meeting
Minutes for July 13, 2023.

Second: Commissioner Nixon.

Vote: A roll call was taken with the Commissioners voting 4-to-0 in favor of the motion.
Commissioners Fowler, Squire, Nixon, and Shirey voted "Aye". The motion passed
unanimously.

2.     Action Item: Approve Planning Commission Meeting Minutes for July 27, 2023.
       (Administrative Action)

Motion: Commissioner Nixon moved to APPROVE the Planning Commission Meeting Minutes
for July 27, 2023.

Second: Commissioner Shirey.

Vote: A roll call was taken with the Commissioners voting 4-to-0 in favor of the motion.
Commissioners Fowler, Squire, Nixon, and Shirey voted "Aye". The motion passed
unanimously.
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
August 24, 2023
Page 2


3.     Public Hearing: G Mobile Auto Repair Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit
       (Administrative Action)
       On the request of Grant Pollock for a Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit for a Home
       Office to Conduct a Mobile Business. The Property is located at approximately 13454 South
       Lone Peak Lane in the RA1 (Single-Family Residential 40,000 square foot minimum area)
       Zone. Application USE-062-2023. Staff contact is Tevai Haunga at 801-576-6522 or
       tevai.haunga@draperutah.gov.

City Planner, Tevai Haunga presented the Staff Report and stated that the request is for a Home
Occupation Conditional Use Permit for G Mobile Auto Repair. The applicant is requesting approval
for an office conducting mobile auto repair. Ms. Haunga presented Vicinity and Aerial maps. The
land use designation is Low to Medium-Density Residential. The zoning map is RA1 (Single-Family
Residential 40,000 square foot minimum). The Site Plan was displayed. The property is
approximately one acre in size. It was noted that all automotive repairs will be done off-site and the
van that will be used will be parked in the driveway. Staff received no public comment.

The applicant, Grant Pollock, was present and indicated that he would park his van on the side
driveway. All auto repairs will be done remotely.

Chair Adams opened the public hearing. There were no public comments. The public hearing was
closed.

Motion: Commissioner Fowler moved to APPROVE the Home Occupation Conditional Use
Permit, as requested by Grant Pollock, representing application USE-062-2023 subject to the
following:

Conditions:

       1.      All business requirements of the Draper City Engineering, Public Works
               Building, Business Licensing, Planning, and Fire Divisions are satisfied
               throughout the operation of the business.

       2.      A Business License shall be maintained for the life of the business.

       3.      Customers are not allowed to come to the property.

       4.      Only one business vehicle is allowed to be stored on the property.

Findings:

       1.      Reasonable mitigation measures can be placed on the conditional use to alleviate
               anticipated detrimental effects.

Second: Commissioner Squire.
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
August 24, 2023
Page 3


Vote: A roll call was taken with the Commissioners voting 4-to-0 in favor of the motion.
Commissioners Fowler, Squire, Nixon, and Shirey voted "Aye". The motion passed
unanimously.

4.       Public Hearing: Fitzgerald Property Amended Development Agreement (Legislative
         Action).
         On the Request of Brad Mackay, Representing Ivory Development for an Amendment to the
         Fitzgerald Property Development Agreement for 22.39 Acres of Property located at 1085 East
         12650 South. The property is Zoned R5, Application Number 23-4505-DA. Staff Contact is
         Jennifer Jastremsky, 801-576-6328, jennifer.jastremsy@draperutah.gov.

Community Development Director, Jennifer Jastremsky, presented the Staff Report and stated that
the Commission previously reviewed a Preliminary Subdivision Plat application for this property,
which is adjacent to City Hall. It was formerly the Fitzgerald Farm. The property is Residential
Medium-High Density with an R5 zoning designation. The original concept was provided in the
Development Agreement that was approved for the Bainbridge Subdivision. The Development
Agreement set a minimum lot size, the number of units, and included a Concept Plan. Ms. Jastremsky
displayed the Preliminary Plan that was approved previously. One of the conditions tied to the
approval dealt with the street connection to 12600 South. The Concept Plan showed a connection but
the submitted Preliminary Plat did not. It shows an emergency access easement instead. The
condition of approval gave the applicant the option of providing the following:

        A through connection;
        A turnaround that complies with City standards; or
        Obtain an amendment to the Development Agreement that proposes something different.

Ms. Jastremsky stated that the Development Agreement amendment was before the Commission
tonight.

The first part of the Development Agreement amendment addresses Accessory Dwelling Units
(“ADU”) and would allow Detached ADUs on all lots regardless of lot size. The current ADU Code
only allows Detached ADUs on 12,000 square-foot or larger lots. Most of the lots in the subdivision
are 10,000 square feet in size with some being 9,000 or 9,100 square feet, which is the smallest
allowed. Staff is not concerned with the request as the lots are large enough to accommodate
Detached ADUs. The next issue addressed in the Development Agreement amendment is a request
to permit a reduction to the minimum rear and side setbacks for the Detached ADUs to five feet and
restrict ADUs to two stories in height. The current Code would require a Detached ADU to meet the
same setbacks and height requirements as the primary home, which in this case would be a 20-foot
rear setback and an eight-foot side setback, with height of up to 35 feet. The proposal would allow
detached ADUs to be closer to the property line and restricts height. The amended agreement would
also restrict properties to having only one ADU.

Commissioner Squire asked for clarification on ADUs and if the agreement provides an additional
allowance for Detached ADUs. Ms. Jastremsky clarified that it changes the parameters. Under the
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
August 24, 2023
Page 4

current Code, about half of the lots would qualify for ADUs because they are over 12,000 square feet
in size.

Commissioner Nixon asked about the height restrictions and if it matters if the main dwelling is one
or two stories. Ms. Jastremsky responded that it would not matter. The current residential zoning
allows heights up to 35 feet for the main home and 35 feet for the ADU.

Ms. Jastremsky reported that the proposed Development Agreement will also address the detention
basin. The plat includes a detention pond area that will be dedicated to the City. They have not yet
addressed how it will be landscaped or designed beyond its capacity for water detention. The
language that staff recommended be added to the Development Agreement included specific
requirements to meet the need for minimal maintenance such as the use of decorative stamped
concrete. The applicant has not proposed specific requirements, only a general one to design for
minimal maintenance.

The 12600 South roadway connection was addressed. Ms. Jastremsky explained that the
Development Agreement would not require the developer to connect to 12600 South but would
require them to provide a turnaround. Staff requested an 80-foot diameter cul-de-sac with no curb or
gutter. The applicant is proposing a 75-foot diameter cul-de-sac with a 2.5-foot curb and gutter within
the same 80-foot diameter. A cross-section was provided to show what that would look like. Ms.
Jastremsky reviewed the proposal and identified the existing asphalt, the location of the right-of-way
improvements, and the turnaround.

The proposed conditions of approval were discussed. It was noted that items two and three from the
list of conditions have been addressed by the applicant. Earlier in the day the Commission was
provided with an updated Development Agreement that contained additional proposed changes.

Commissioner Nixon asked if the Fire Department had signed off on the cul-de-sac design. Senior
Engineering Manager, Brien Maxfield, reported that the Engineering and Fire Departments have
verified that their needs are met in terms of turnarounds for snowplows, garbage trucks, and fire
apparatus.

The applicant, Brad Mackay from Ivory Development, stated that they have been working with Staff
since they received the initial Preliminary Plat approval to include the right language in the
Development Agreement. He felt they had arrived at something they were both comfortable with.
The 80-foot right-of-way, as originally proposed, includes curb and gutter. They intend to dedicate
80 feet for the cul-de-sac so that at some point in time if curb and gutter are ever put down 12600
South, curb and gutter can be placed in the correct location within the right-of-way. Installing the
curb and gutter now would create a drainage problem for the adjacent neighbors on 12600 South. He
clarified that the setback changes are for detached garages with ADUs above them. They were asking
for an amendment to ease the ability to access the garages. He noted that they do not intend to
construct anything greater than two stories.

Chair Adams asked if Ivory Development was planning to build the ADUs. Mr. Mackay stated that
they would offer them as part of the initial sale of the home but a homeowner could also build them
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
August 24, 2023
Page 5

later, if desired. They have received numerous requests for detached garages with ADUs on their
homes. This allows them to provide a nice home with a detached garage with an ADU over the top.

Chair Adams expressed support for ADUs and frequently sees them with new construction, which he
considered to be best.

Commissioner Fowler asked about the proposed Section 5 regarding the minimal maintenance for the
detention pond and what that means. Mr. Mackay stated that they submitted their Final Plat for Phase
1 and the design for the detention pond with the minimal maintenance design was included. There
will be a wall around the detention basin with stamped and standard concrete around the perimeter.
There will be a rock-lined detention inside the fence. Low maintenance means that it will not have
to be mowed and includes either a native seed mix for erosion control or a riprap-lined detention
basin. Mr. Maxfield clarified that the stamped concrete will be outside the fence. Crews can inspect
the basin when needed but they will not have to worry about weeds or trash because it will be behind
a solid fence. On 1300 East south of 13200 South, there is a detention basin with cobbled rock that
seems to trap garbage and weeds. It is a City-maintained basin and they do not have the staffing
levels needed to regularly maintain it.

Commissioner Fowler commented that “minimal maintenance” is a broad and vague term.
Mr. Maxfield stated that the Engineering Division has not had an opportunity to fully review the
revised submittal and provide comment. Ms. Jastremsky stated that modified language was included
in the draft Development Agreement that was sent out earlier in the day. It does not, however, specify
what “minimized maintenance” means. Mr. Mackay stated that that is typically added to a
Development Agreement with the final details worked out on the final plat. He expressed a
willingness to modify the language based on the desires of the City. Commissioner Fowler asked Mr.
Maxfield if he was worried about vague language. He responded that if Ivory Development is willing
to work with them and is aware that they would like stamped concrete and a fence they would be
amenable to moving forward and include those.

Chair Adams opened the public hearing.

Brian Ahrendt gave his address as 12613 South Fort Street and expressed support for the cul-de-sac
plan. He also recommended a pedestrian connection from the new development to 12600 South to
help people in the neighborhood get to the Historic Park, the City Park, and Draper Elementary
School.

There were no further public comments. Chair Adams closed the public hearing.

Commissioner Fowler asked how the cul-de-sac will impact the driveway of the home next door.
Ms. Jastremsky identified the property line and described how the cul-de-sac will connect to the right-
of-way. Mr. Maxfield stated that the only driveway that will be impacted is to the north, which will
straighten it out and eliminate the dogleg.

Commissioner Squire recognized that some concessions have been given in exchange for ADUs on
every lot, external ADUs, and the setback change. She was not supportive of those allowances but
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
August 24, 2023
Page 6

did not object to the cul-de-sac. She was supportive of the access if approved by the City Engineer.
She noticed that the homes on abutting properties could have an external ADU building five feet from
the property line, which she was not in favor of. Commissioner Fowler asked for more clarification.
Commissioner Squires stated that at least three lots on the west side are one-half acre in size, which
is large enough for ADUs under the current code but normally would include a greater setback.
Changing the setback on new properties adjacent to existing homes seemed problematic to
Commissioner Fowler. Ms. Jastremsky clarified that only the properties along the west will abut
existing homes. A trail separates the lots from the existing homes to the east.

Chair Adams asked the applicant if there was a floor plan for the homes the applicant intended to
build on the lots that would be wide in front and not allow for a side driveway. Chair Adams clarified
his question that with a five-foot setback rather than a twenty-foot setback would the driveway not
have to be doglegged into the property in order for it to line up. Mr. Mackay stated that most of the
plans that include a three-car garage will be too wide to allow for a driveway down the side yard.
They are developing new plans that will tie into the historic area that will feature a detached garage
in the rear of the home. It would be accessed from a side yard access. He explained that they already
can construct detached garages that are the same size with smaller setbacks. This would just be
adjusted for the ADU. Ms. Jastremsky reported that the rear and side setbacks for detached garages
are 10 feet from property lines but they are limited in height.

Commissioner Squire stated that the setback was her primary concern. She commented that the City
is giving much more than they are getting in return. Ms. Jastremsky stated that the R5 zoning has a
minimum lot size of 8,000 square feet but per the Development Agreement, the minimum is 9,000
square feet. The minimum with R4 zoning is 10,000 square feet. A Detached ADU requires 12,000
square feet or more with the minimum setback being 20 feet in the rear and eight feet on the sides.

Commissioner Nixon noted that Lots 101, 102, 202, and 203 have a private rear yard retention
easement of 15 feet that will prevent ADUs there. Ms. Jastremsky confirmed that was the case. A
Commissioner noted that the ADUs are associated with offering more affordable housing in Draper,
which is beneficial. Commissioner Squires was not opposed to Detached ADUs but objected to them
on tiny lots. The worst-case scenario was for each of the proposed new lots to be allowed to have a
Detached ADU. The Commission must determine whether that is appropriate for the City.

Chair Adams expressed his support and liked that homebuyers will know what they are getting. This
prevents people from being upset when a garage or shed goes up near the property line.
Commissioner Squire felt that was fine for people who buy in a new neighborhood but there are places
in the City where there are illegal ADUs and issues with parking.

Mr. Mackay commented that the ADU language in the Development Plan states if someone elects to
have a Detached ADU on their property, they cannot also have an Internal ADU. Commissioner
Fowler noted that that distinction already exists in the Code. Ms. Jastremsky explained that State law
governing Internal ADUs does not allow the City to prevent someone from having an Internal ADU
in the proposed subdivision, but they can prevent them from having a Detached ADU as well. The
Development Agreement for the project clarifies that only one ADU is allowed.
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
August 24, 2023
Page 7

A question was raised regarding a pedestrian walkway. Mr. Mackay stated that they were asked to
remove it. Previously there was a 20-foot fire access road and trail easement. With the cul-de-sac,
they were asked to remove the trail. Commissioner Nixon was pleased to see the cul-de-sac and
expressed her support for the proposal.

Chair Adams referenced Lot 102 and noted that there is enough room for a driveway on the side,
unless the plans are changed they will not have access. Commissioner Squires asked if the idea was
to have all detached garages. Chair Adams stated that that was the case for the detached ADUs but
not the primary residence. Mr. Mackay clarified that there will be a three-car home with a two-car
detached garage for a total of five cars. On top of the detached garage will be a 900-square-foot
ADU. Commissioner Squires commented that that is the reason that lots this size are currently not
allowed to have detached garages with ADUs above. She was concerned that more is being placed
on a tiny lot.

Chair Adams reported that it is the result of the state requiring affordability. He supports property
rights and trusts that developers want good development. As long as there is access he would support
what is proposed.

Motion: Commissioner Nixon moved to send a POSITIVE recommendation to the City Council
for the Amended Development Agreement as requested by Brad Mackay representing Ivory
Development for the Fitzgerald Property Amended Development Agreement, Application 23-
4505-DA, including the changes that were received by staff today and subject to the following:

Conditions:

       1.      Section 4 of the agreement shall be amended to require an 80-foot diameter cul-
               de-sac to be installed at the end of 12600 South.

       2.      Section 3 shall be modified to clarify that the reduced setbacks are for D-ADUs
               only.

       3.      Add a Section that states that D-ADU structures are limited to 2 stories in height.

       4.      The agreement shall include the staff proposed in Section 5.

Findings:

       1.      The proposed amended Development Agreement complies with DCMC Section
               9-5-200(C) and (D).

       2.      The proposed conditions and changes to the agreement will protect the health,
               safety, and welfare of properties along 12600 South by providing a turnaround
               design that meets the design criteria of the Fire Department, City Engineer, and
               the Public Works Director per DCMC Section 17-5-030(F).
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
August 24, 2023
Page 8

Second: Commissioner Fowler.

Vote: A roll call was taken with the Commissioners voting 3-to-1 in favor of the motion.
Commissioners Fowler, Nixon, and Shirey voted "Aye". Commissioner Squire voted "No".
The motion passed 3-to-1.

5.       City-Initiated Parks, Recreation, and Trails Master Plan (Legislative Action)
         At the request of Draper City Parks and Recreation Department a Request to Update the City's
         General Plan with the Parks, Recreation and Trails Master Plan. Staff Contact: Brad Jensen,
         801-831-7192, brad.jensen@draperutah.gov.

Parks and Recreation Project Manager, Brad Jensen presented the Staff Report and stated that the
Parks Master Plan was adopted in 2008 and the City is currently overdue for a New Master Plan. In
2020, they contracted with Landmark Design. They received public input in several ways including
an advisory committee, focus groups, and public comment on the project website using interactive
mapping. They also conducted a statistically valid survey in the community for which there was a
good response. An Open House was held and input was received from the Parks and Trails
Committee. The Advisory and Parks, Trails, and Recreation Committees reviewed the final draft and
recommended approval of the plan.

The public input included a pinpoint map with numerous positive responses. For the most part, people
were very appreciative of the trails and staff was surprised by the number of positive comments
received. They requested more single-use trails, one-way bike trails, and additional improvements to
the existing parks. It was clarified that a single-use trail is a bike-only or a hike-only trail.

The top takeaways from the survey were that residents are very satisfied with the parks and recreation
facilities. Mr. Jensen stated that there is a lot of use of the parks and trails facilities. There was also
significant support for preserving natural open space. They found that residents are willing to pay
more to help with park maintenance and upgrades as well as the development of new parks. Some of
the survey priorities included pickleball courts as well with six more having been recently opened.
Other priorities included more off-leash dog areas and the construction of an indoor multi-purpose
gymnasium.

Mr. Jensen reported that the plan is divided into six chapters consisting of the following:

        Parks. Jenson Farm Park is planned along with the expansion of other parks. Proposed parks
         were included in the Master Plan and will require the City to acquire land. Potential future
         parks included three potential neighborhood parks that will most likely be developed with
         future projects. Because land is limited in the City, they are evaluating the use of the Utah
         Transit Authority (“UTA”) Railroad and Rocky Mountain Power Corridors. With regard to
         amenities, there are deficiencies including courts and a multi-sports indoor facility. An
         important part of the plan is The Point, which was separated from what is taking place in the
         community. The desire was to provide direction and guidance in that regard. With regard to
         the level of service, they are on track to meeting the City’s standards. With respect to
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
August 24, 2023
Page 9

       amenities, several sand volleyball courts were proposed but few pickleball courts. It was
       recommended that adjustments be made.

      Recreation. They were pleased to see how many people participate in City programs, which
       is higher than the national average. It was suggested that programs be offered at more
       convenient times. One of the takeaways was to provide additional extended programs but
       develop a City-owned indoor recreation facility. The intent was to conduct a study and
       evaluation as to feasibility and design of a new indoor recreation facility owned by the city.

      Arts, Culture, and Community Events. It was noted that Draper Days is the most popular
       event and the City receives ideas on what can be done going forward with events. The
       takeaways included improvements to the Draper Amphitheater and constructing an indoor
       venue to accommodate an indoor museum, theater, or concerts. Suggested improvements to
       the amphitheater included additional seating and various upgrades.

      Trails. Currently, there are 152 miles of trails in the City. The plan proposes an additional 60
       miles of multi-use trails, which does not include the single-use trails. Most paved trails are
       along the various utility corridors that provide important east/west connections across I-15
       and connections to The Point. Improvements to the multi-use primitive (dirt) trails include
       finishing the Bonneville Shoreline Trail on the Utah County portion and making connections
       to other existing trails. They were also considering utilizing the UTA Corridor connection to
       Draper Park. Future trailheads were also reviewed. They have not changed significantly from
       the previous Master Plan. They also looked at proposed trail crossings and making safer trail
       crossings. Staff also looked at Operation and Maintenance comparisons with local cities of a
       similar size.

The last chapter was an Implementation Action Plan that identifies the short-term priorities compared
to long-term plan implementation.

Commissioner Fowler asked if the City has land for the proposed indoor recreation facility.
Mr. Jensen reported that they looked at land that was recently acquired by the City. It would include
a gymnasium, which the current recreation center does not have. It could also be utilized for other
community events. Commissioner Fowler asked if consideration had been given to rebuilding the
Old Draper Theater. Mr. Jensen stated that it is privately owned.

Chair Adams opened the public hearing. There were no public comments. Chair Adams closed the
public hearing.

Chair Adams stated that at the Town Center Station Area Plan Meetings, there was a discussion about
what would be done with the property that was recently acquired. The plan recommends that a study
be conducted to evaluate the needs and desired size and what will be accommodated inside the
building. The plan was to evaluate it as a recreational and indoor arts facility.

Commissioner Squire asked about the timeline or vision period for the document. Mr. Jensen reported
that they are looking at two different horizons with one being to 2030 and the other to 2050.
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
August 24, 2023
Page 10


Commissioner Fowler liked how the plan evaluates the use of the Amphitheater and the Equestrian
Park, which are often unused. She liked the idea of using them more rather than simply building
something new.

Commissioner Nixon expressed support.

Motion: Commissioner Fowler moved to forward a POSITIVE recommendation to the City
Council for the Parks, Recreation, and Trails Master Plan as requested by Draper City based
on the following:

Finding:

       1.     The proposed amendment complies with DCMC Section 9-2-020.

Second: Commissioner Squire.

Vote: A roll call was taken with the Commissioners voting 4-to-0 in favor of the motion.
Commissioners Fowler, Squire, Nixon, and Shirey voted "Aye". The motion passed
unanimously.

6.     Adjournment.

Motion: Commissioner Fowler moved to ADJOURN.

Vote: The motion passed with the unanimous consent of the Commission.

The meeting adjourned at 7:30 PM.
