MINUTES OF THE DRAPER CITY PLANNING COMMISSION MEETING HELD ON
THURSDAY, JULY 27, 2023 IN THE DRAPER CITY COUNCIL CHAMBERS

PARTICIPATING: Andrew Adams, Chairman
               Craig Hawker, Vice-Chair
               Commission Member Mary Squire
               Commission Member Lisa Fowler
               Commission Member Susan Nixon
               Alternate Commission Member Kendra Shirey

ABSENT:              Commission Member Gary Ogden
                     Jennifer Jastremsky, Community Development Director

STAFF PRESENT: Mike Barker, City Attorney
               Todd Draper, Planner III
               Spencer DuShane, Assistant City Attorney
               Brien Maxfield, Senior Engineer Manager
               Amie Salazar, Office Manager

6:30 PM Business Meeting

Chair Andrew Adams called the meeting to order.

1.     Action Item: Approve Planning Commission Meeting Minutes for May 25, 2023.
       (Administrative Action)

Motion: Commissioner Nixon moved to APPROVE the Planning Commission Minutes for
May 25, 2023, as written.

Second: Commissioner Shirey.

Vote: A roll call was taken with the Commissioners voting 5-to-0 in favor of the motion.
Commissioners Squire, Fowler, Nixon, Shirey, and Hawker voted “Aye”. The motion passed
unanimously.

2.     Action Item: Approve Planning Commission Meeting Minutes for June 8, 2023.
       (Administrative Action)

Motion: Commissioner Squire moved to APPROVE the Planning Commission Minutes for
June 8, 2023, as written.

Second: Commissioner Fowler.

Vote: A roll call was taken with the Commissioners voting 5-to-0 in favor of the motion.
Commissioners Squire, Fowler, Nixon, Shirey, and Hawker voted “Aye”. The motion passed
unanimously.
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
July 27, 2023
Page 2



3.     Public Hearing: Cross Point Plat Amendment Request. (Administrative Action)
       On the request of Ralph Johnson, representing Utah Capital LLC, for a Plat Amendment
       to create two lots on 22.58 acres located in the CR and OS zones at 166 East Highland Dr.
       Application SUBD-099- 2023. Staff report by Jennifer Jastremsky, 801-576-6328,
       jennifer.jastremsky@draperutah.gov.

Planner III, Todd Draper, presented the Staff Report and stated that the request is for a simple two-
lot subdivision located along Highland Drive and Bangerter Parkway. An aerial map was
displayed. Currently, it is two parcels, and another little gap parcel that will be included in the
subdivision. The Land Use Map shows it as Community Commercial. The small sliver is zoned
for Open Space. The main parcels are currently zoned CR. There is an administrative
determination that the Open Space area being added will be treated as a CR zone. Mr. Draper
displayed the existing subdivision plat, which shows the property as a single lot. The subject
properties were not legally divided in 2007. This proposed plat will remedy that and divide it into
two lots. The front portion along Highland Drive will be developed at a later date. Anything
involving improvements along the street will come later with the site plan application. Site photos
were presented. Mr. Draper clarified that the request is for a subdivision of the land to remedy the
illegal division that preceded it. The remaining sliver of property will also be incorporated into
the Seasons property which technically will extend the subdivision. Mr. Draper clarified that the
proposed lots are separately owned but have not been legally divided.

Chris Hogle an attorney with Holland & Hart was present representing the applicant, Utah Capital,
LLC. The application is merely before the Commission to bring it into conformance with the law.
The two properties have different legal owners. The Seasons was built out and has been approved
for building occupancy. There are no new public improvements associated with the Utah Capital
portion. The request will benefit the Seasons as well, as in the event they wish to sell, they would
have difficulty obtaining financing. Mr. Hogle directed the Commission to a concern he had with
condition number three which specifies that if the plat amendment is not recorded within one year
from the date of approval or construction of the required landscaping or infrastructure has not
commenced, such approval shall be null and void. Mr. Hogle’s understanding was that this was
an either/or situation. His understanding was that as there was no required landscaping or
infrastructure required with this amended plat, the amended plat simply must be recorded within
one year to avoid it becoming null and void. Mike Barker, City Attorney, confirmed that was the
case.

In response to a question raised by Commissioner Fowler, Mr. Draper explained that Lot 4 is
already built out, Lot 5 has not yet been built on. Lot 4 is the Seasons property. When the Seasons
was approved, the entire property was one lot and the Seasons was approved for just that portion
of the property. It was later divided outside of the City approval process. The request tonight is
to bring it into conformance with the City Subdivision Ordinance. Mr. Draper again explained
that the sliver will go into Lot 4, and Lot 5 will be the remainder of what was Lot 1.

Chair Adams opened the public hearing.
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
July 27, 2023
Page 3


Katie Merrell, a resident, and Homeowners Association (“HOA”) member, asked for clarification
and wondered if the Seasons and the front portion were divided so that someone could purchase
the new portion and build a hospital with the helicopter pad on the top. She noted that those things
were not supported by the HOA. Ms. Merrell emphasized that the HOA does not want anything
higher than approved by the City and does not want helicopters.

There were no further public comments. Chair Adams closed the public hearing.

Chair Adams clarified that the request tonight does not give rights or privileges to either lot other
than legally making them separate, which they should have been previously.

Commissioner Fowler asked if the ownership of Lot 5 has changed since the matter was before the
Commission. Mr. Draper stated that he believed the ownership to be the same, but could not
confirm it was. It was confirmed by Mr. Hogle that the ownership has remained the same.

Motion: Commissioner Squire moved that the Commission APPROVE the Plat Amendment
as requested by Ralph Johnson, representing Utah Capital, LLC, for Cross Point Plat
Amendment, Application SUBD-099-2023, based on the following:

Findings:

       1.      There is good cause for the vacation or amendment; and no public street,
               right-of-way, or easement has been vacated or amended.

Conditions:

       1.      All requirements of the Draper City Engineering, Public Works, Building,
               Planning, and Fire Divisions are satisfied throughout the development of the
               site and the construction of all buildings on the site, including permitting.

       2.      All requirements of the geotechnical report are satisfied throughout the
               development of the site and the construction of all buildings on the site.

       3.      If the plat amendment is not recorded within one (1) year from the date of
               approval or construction of the required landscaping and infrastructure has
               not commenced, such approval shall be null and void. This time period may
               be extended by the Planning Commission for up to one additional six (6) month
               period for good cause shown. The subdivider must petition in writing for an
               extension prior to the expiration of the original one (1) year.

Second: Commissioner Shirey.
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
July 27, 2023
Page 4

Vote: A roll call was taken with the Commissioners voting 5-to-0 in favor of the motion.
Commissioners Squire, Fowler, Nixon, Shirey, and Hawker voted “Aye”. The motion passed
unanimously.

4.     Public Hearing: Godfrey Property Subdivision Plat Amendment. (Administrative
       Action)
       On the request of Norm Dahle, representing Scott Godfrey, Stacie Godfrey, Gregg
       Godfrey, Shelly Godfrey, and William Gregg Godfrey, a Subdivision Plat Amendment
       Request for approximately 3.57 acres, located at approximately 1661 East 12435 South
       known as Application SUBD-1079-2020, Staff Contact Todd Draper, (801) 576-6335,
       todd.draper@draperutah.gov.

Mr. Draper presented the Staff Report and stated that the request is a fairly simple subdivision that
is currently known as the Godfrey Properties Subdivision. The property was previously
subdivided into four lots. The proposed amendment takes three of the lots and turns them into
five. The land use category is Residential Low/Medium Density and the zoning is RA-2. Mr.
Draper displayed the current subdivision plat showing the four lots and the proposed subdivision
plat with the additional two lots. All of the lots meet the minimum standards for size, frontage,
and width. Additionally, a small piece was purchased from the neighbor and is being added to a
rear lot to extend the subdivision. The owners will be vacating some of the previous private right-
of-way and public utility easements that run down the middle of the property. He identified a new
sewer easement and stated that the old easement may be vacated by a separate deed in the future.
Mr. Draper reported that all of the improvements are in due to a prior approval that was granted to
convert the property into four lots but was never recorded. That prior approval is technically still
active but they wished to come back in and change it to the five lots.

Mr. Draper displayed the Grading Plan, which shows that there is an existing building on Lot 4.
An administrative determination has been made that it is technically a single-family home. At one
point, it was essentially a non-conforming Accessory Dwelling Unit (“ADU”) before the lots were
first split, for that reason the setbacks do not conform along two of the lot lines. The building will,
however, conform to the required 12-foot setback on the west side. Mr. Draper displayed site
photos showing the improvements that have been installed from the prior approved plat, which
included a cul-de-sac rather than a hammerhead turnaround.

Chair Adams asked if the additional parcel helped with the size and if it would function as a
drainage area. Mr. Draper responded that the additional parcel was not needed to meet size
requirements and it will be used for drainage.

Commissioner Fowler asked about Table 3 in the Staff Report which states that the rear interior
has an existing SFD that will retain a non-conforming rear setback. Mr. Draper confirmed that the
non-conforming building referenced earlier was the reason for that. Mr. Draper stated that future
development would need to conform if, for example, they were to tear down the building and build
a new home on the property.
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
July 27, 2023
Page 5

Commissioner Nixon asked if they need to include an additional condition specifying that it needs
to be recorded within one year or it’s null and void. Mr. Draper stated that it would still apply here
but they do not necessarily need to state that directly.

Norm Dahle was present representing the owners of the subdivision. He reported that the intent is
to record the subdivision expeditiously. With all of the improvements in, this is the last issue the
family would like to have accommodated, which is to create the additional lot.

Chair Adams opened the public hearing. There were no public comments. The public hearing
was closed.

Motion: Commissioner Hawker moved that the Commission APPROVE the Plat
Amendment, as requested by Norm Dahle, Application SUBD-1079-2020, subject to the
following:

Findings:

       1.      There is good cause for the plat amendment; and no Public Street, right-of-
               way, or municipal easement has been vacated or amended.

Conditions:

       1.      That all requirements of the Draper City Engineering, Public Works,
               Building, Planning, and Fire Divisions are satisfied throughout the
               development of the site and the construction of all buildings on the site,
               including permitting.

       2.      That all requirements of the geotechnical report are satisfied throughout the
               development of the site and the construction of all buildings on the site.
               Godfrey Property Subdivision App. # SUBD-1079-2020 Plat Amendment
               Request 6.

       3.      That minor changes to include or vacate a small portion of the storm drainage
               easement on Lot 7 as identified by planning staff be reflected on the Final Plat.

       4.      That the subdivision plans be updated to indicate that the existing building
               that will remain on Lot 5 is a Single-Family Dwelling and not a general office
               or garage.

       5.      That current sewer and water availability letters for all lots in the amended
               plat be submitted to the Engineering Division prior to obtaining signatures on
               Final Plat.

Second: Commissioner Nixon.
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
July 27, 2023
Page 6


Vote: A roll call was taken with the Commissioners voting 5-to-0 in favor of the motion.
Commissioners Squire, Fowler, Nixon, Shirey, and Hawker voted “Aye”. The motion passed
unanimously.

5.     Adjournment.

Motion: Commissioner Squire moved to ADJOURN.

Vote: The motion passed with the unanimous consent of the Commission.

The meeting adjourned at 6:55 PM.
