MINUTES OF THE DRAPER CITY COUNCIL MEETING HELD ON TUESDAY,
SEPTEMBER 19, 2023, IN THE DRAPER CITY COUNCIL CHAMBERS, 1020 EAST
PIONEER ROAD, DRAPER, UTAH

PRESENT:      Mayor Troy K. Walker, and Councilmembers Mike Green (by phone),
              Tasha Lowery, Fred Lowry, Cal Roberts, and Marsha Vawdrey

EXCUSED:

STAFF:        David Dobbins, City Manager; Mike Barker, City Attorney; Kellie
              Challburg, Chief of Staff; Scott Cooley, City Engineer; Rich Ferguson,
              Chief of Police; Jennifer Jastremsky, Community Development Director;
              Bret Millburn, Assistant City Manager; Malena Murray, Human
              Resources Director; Rhett Ogden, Parks and Recreation Director; Laura
              Oscarson, City Recorder; Linda Peterson, Communications Director;
              Bart Vawdrey, Battalion Fire Chief; Jake Sorensen, IT; John Vuyk, Finance
              Director; and Jared Zacharias, Assistant Finance Director

______________________________________________________________________________

Study Session

Discussion: Parks, Recreation, and Trails Master Plan
Parks and Recreation Director Rhett Ogden presented an updated Parks, Recreation,
and Trails Master Plan. He spoke of projects completed since the last Parks,
Recreation and Trails Master Plan was adopted, and explained the process involved
in preparing the update. Engineering Project Manager Brad Jensen reviewed a park
projects list with the Council. He explained The Point was not included in the city-
wide analysis, and shared parks and recreation elements of The Point development
plan. Mr. Jensen reviewed recreation and trails project lists with the Council and
answered questions about future expansion and maintenance of trails.

Closed Session: By Motion, The Draper City Council may temporarily recess the
regular meeting and convene in a closed session to discuss the character,
professional competence, or physical or mental health of an individual,
pending or reasonably imminent litigation, or the purchase, exchange, or lease
of real property, as provided by UCA 52-4-205
A closed session was not needed.

Council/Manager Report



Draper City Council DRAFT Meeting Minutes – September 19, 2023
Mayor Walker shared information he recently learned about the future of water in
Utah.

Business Session

1.      Call to Order by Mayor Troy K. Walker

2.      Thought/Prayer and Pledge of Allegiance

       A Prayer was offered by Claire Larkin of the Sandy Hidden Valley Stake, and
       the Pledge of Allegiance was led by Jake Sorensen.

3.      Proclamation: National Welcoming Week
3.a     Mayor Walker read aloud a proclamation recognizing National Welcoming
        Week.

4.      Public Comments
4.a     Dan Portwood, a Draper resident, reported that Google Fiber was doing a
        good job in his neighborhood. He said parking had become an issue with the
        Google Fiber work. Mr. Portwood asked the City to help with illegal accessory
        dwelling units. He thanked the Council for a spectacular Draper Days
        fireworks show.
4.b     Brad Enslen, a Draper resident, said he agreed with Mr. Portwood that
        parking was a problem in his neighborhood, and asked for help from the
        City.
4.c     James Alger, a Draper resident, talked about single-family homes in his
        neighborhood that were not owner-occupied but were occupied by multiple
        renting families in each home, which he understood was against the law. He
        asked the City to find a way to enforce housing codes.

5.      Consent Items
5.a     Approval of Resolution #23-54, a resolution re-appointing Jason Wiggins
        as a member of the Draper City Historic Preservation Commission.
5.b     Approval of Resolution #23-55, a Resolution appointing Kendra Shirey
        as a regular member of the Draper City Planning Commission.




                                                                          2|Page
      Councilmember Vawdrey moved to approve the Consent items.
      Councilmember T. Lowery seconded the motion.

      A roll call vote was taken. The motion passed unanimously.
                                   Yes    No     Absent
      Councilmember Green          X
      Councilmember T. Lowery X
      Councilmember F. Lowry       X
      Councilmember Roberts        X
      Councilmember Vawdrey X

6.    Items for Council Consideration
6.a   Action Item: Resolution #23-53, a Resolution extending Proclamation of
      Local Emergency 23-01 concerning a landslide in the Hidden Canyon
      Estates subdivision
      City Attorney Mike Barker explained the recommendation to extend the
      Proclamation of Local Emergency to January 31, 2024.

      Councilmember F. Lowry moved to approved Resolution #23-53.
      Councilmember Roberts seconded the motion.

      A roll call vote was taken. The motion passed unanimously.
                                     Yes No Absent
      Councilmember Green            X
      Councilmember T. Lowery        X
      Councilmember F. Lowry         X
      Councilmember Roberts          X
      Councilmember Vawdrey          X

6.b   Action Item: Ordinance #1586, an Ordinance amending a Development
      Agreement for approximately 22.39 acres of property, located at
      approximately 1085 East 12650 South within Draper City, otherwise
      known as the Fitzgerald Property Amended Development Agreement
      City Manager David Dobbins said the applicant proposed an amendment to
      the Development Agreement that would limit lots developed on the
      Fitzgerald Property to having an external or an internal accessory dwelling



                                                                       3|Page
unit (ADU) but would not allow both on the same lot. Staff answered
questions from the Council regarding setbacks and height.

Brad Mackey with Ivory Development said he believed the proposed
amendment addressed many of the public comments shared previously by
limiting lots to one ADU. He said he did not consider setback space behind
an ADU to be usable space. He explained that whether or not a Detached
Accessory Dwelling Unit (D-ADU) would be possible on individual lots would
depend on the plan of the homes, and estimated that 46 lots would
potentially be able to have a D-ADU.

Councilmember T. Lowery said she believed the City had an existing Code for
a reason, and setbacks were important. She said she would not want to see
the setbacks cut in half. Councilmember T. Lowery said she was worried
about what the neighborhood would look like with the homes squished in
with no setbacks and huge external apartments.

Councilmember Green said he did not like the request for reduced setbacks
in exchange for limiting lots to one ADU since the City asked all development
partners to choose between an I-ADU or a D-ADU per lot. Councilmember
Green said he wanted the developer to comply with existing setbacks and
pick one or the other with regard to ADUs. Councilmember Roberts said his
concern was with height, and said the current proposal did not solve the
issue for him. Responding to a range of 25-28 feet mentioned by the Ivory
representative, Councilmember Roberts said he would prefer to limit height
to 25 feet, and said he would want the limitations to be clearly stated in the
development agreement. The Ivory representative pointed out that height
limitations could limit roof pitch and architecture.

Councilmember Vawdrey said she agreed with concerns expressed and had
concerns about giving away minimum lot size requirements for D-ADUs. She
expressed the opinion that the proposal did not seem like a good trade. The
Council discussed the proposal with staff. Staff clarified that under the
current Code and State law (without the Amended Development Agreement),
14 of the lots would meet the requirements to have both an I-ADU and a D-



                                                                   4|Page
      ADU. The Ivory representative commented that the cul-de-sac would not be
      possible without the Amended Development Agreement.

      Councilmember Vawdrey moved to approve Ordinance #1586 with the
      following amendments to the Amended Development Agreement: cul-
      de-sac with 80’ driving surface, no curb, and gutter; setbacks for lots
      with detached accessory dwelling units (D-ADU) are seven feet on the
      side yards, ten feet to the rear except the rear setbacks on the lots in
      the middle island which are twelve feet; D-ADUs are only allowed on
      lots greater than or equal to 11,000 square feet with the total number
      capped at 27; D-ADU height is capped at 28 feet in two stories; only one
      ADU is allowed on each lot regardless of type. Councilmember Roberts
      seconded the motion.

      A roll call vote was taken. The motion passed unanimously.
                                     Yes No Absent
      Councilmember Green            X
      Councilmember T. Lowery        X
      Councilmember F. Lowry         X
      Councilmember Roberts          X
      Councilmember Vawdrey          X

6.c   Public Hearing: Ordinance #1588, an Ordinance of the Draper City
      Council adopting the 2023 Draper City Parks, Trails and Recreation
      Master Plan
      The Council reviewed the proposed update to the Parks, Trails, and
      Recreation Master Plan during the Study Session prior to the meeting. Parks
      and Recreation Director Rhett Ogden said the Planning Commission
      reviewed the document and forwarded a unanimous positive
      recommendation.

      Mayor Walker opened a public hearing, and closed the public hearing
      seeing no one come forward.

      Councilmember T. Lowery moved to continue Ordinance #1588 to the
      October 3, 2023 meeting. Councilmember Roberts seconded the
      motion.

                                                                       5|Page
      A roll call vote was taken. The motion passed unanimously.
                                     Yes No Absent
      Councilmember Green            X
      Councilmember T. Lowery        X
      Councilmember F. Lowry         X
      Councilmember Roberts          X
      Councilmember Vawdrey          X

6.d   Action Item: Resolution #23-52, a Resolution of the Draper City Council
      declaring the results of the September 5, 2023 Primary Municipal
      Election Canvass
      City Recorder Laura Oscarson presented a canvass of the 2023 Primary
      Municipal Election results.

      Councilmember T. Lowery moved to approved #23-52, accepting the
      results of the September 5, 2023 Primary Election. Councilmember
      Roberts seconded the motion.

      A roll call vote was taken. The motion passed unanimously.
                                     Yes No Absent
      Councilmember Green            X
      Councilmember T. Lowery        X
      Councilmember F. Lowry         X
      Councilmember Roberts          X
      Councilmember Vawdrey          X

7.    Adjournment
      Councilmember Green moved to adjourn the meeting. Councilmember
      Vawdrey seconded the motion. A voice vote was taken. The motion
      passed unanimously.

      The meeting adjourned at 8:10 p.m.




                                                                   6|Page
