Coversheet
Item Coversheet MEMO To: City Council Meeting
From: Jennifer Jastremsky, AICP
CC:  Date: January 10, 2023
Re: Royale Estate & Cottages – Development Agreement, Land Use Map Amendment, and Zoning Map Amendment Comments: This application is a request for approval of a Development Agreement , Land Use Map Amendment, and Zoning Map Amendment for approximately 1.67 acres located on the west side of 700 East, at approximately 12430 S. 700 E. The property is currently zoned RA1 and RA2 . The applicant is requesting that a Development Agreement , Land Use Map Amendment, and Zoning Map Amendment be approved to allow for the development of the site as a new assisted living facility and three new single family homes . The applications as proposed would change the land use map on part of the site from Residential Medium Density to Neighborhood Commercial and keep the remainder as Residential Medium Density. The applicant also wishes to change the zoning map from RA1 and RA2 to R4 (Single Family Residential, 10,000 sq. ft. min. lot size) and CN (Neighborhood Commercial). The Development Agreement would restrict development of the property to a specific concept plan.
The Planning Commission reviewed the request on November 17, 2022 and forwarded a positive recommendation on all three applications with a 4-1 vote. The findings are as follows: For approval:
1.   The development agreement meets the standards related to procedure and limitations for development agreements.
2.   The terms of the development agreement are acceptable to Draper City.
3.   The proposed amendment is consistent with the goals, objectives and policies of the city's general plan.
4.   The proposed amendment is harmonious with the overall character of existing development in the vicinity of the subject property.
5.   The proposed amendment is consistent with the standards of any applicable overlay zone.
6.   The proposed amendment should not adversely affect adjacent property.
7.   The facilities and services intended to serve the subject property, including, but not limited to, roadways, parks and recreation facilities, police and fire protection, schools, stormwater drainage systems, water supplies, and wastewater and refuse collection, are adequate.
8.   The proposed land use map amendment complies with DCMC Sections 9-2-020(F) and 9-5-060(D).
For denial:
1.   The development agreement does not meet the standards related to procedure and limitations for development agreements.
2.   The terms of the development agreement are not acceptable to Draper City.
3.   The proposed amendment is not consistent with the goals, objectives and policies of the city's general plan.
4.   The proposed amendment is not harmonious with the overall character of existing development in the vicinity of the subject property.
5 .   The proposed amendment is not consistent with the standards of any applicable overlay zone.
6.   The proposed amendment is likely to adversely affect adjacent property.
7.   The facilities and services intended to serve the subject property, including, but not limited to, roadways, parks and recreation facilities, police and fire protection, schools, stormwater drainage systems, water supplies, and wastewater and refuse collection, are inadequate.
8.   The proposed land use map amendment does not comply with DCMC Sections 9-2-020(F) and 9-5-060(D). ATTACHMENTS: Description Upload Date Type Ord 1570 1/6/2023 Cover Memo Ord 1571 1/6/2023 Cover Memo PC Staff Report 1/4/2023 Cover Memo