                                     ORDINANCE NO. 1584

         AN ORDINANCE OF THE DRAPER CITY COUNCIL AMENDING THE TEXT OF
         TITLE 6 CHAPTER 8 OF THE DRAPER CITY MUNICIPAL CODE RELATING TO
         SOLICITORS.


         WHEREAS, it is necessary from time to time to revise certain terms of the Draper City
Municipal Code to address provisions that become diminished in appropriateness, applicability,
or clarity;

       WHEREAS, Chapter 6-8 “Solicitors” was adopted in 2007 and has not been substantially
revised since then;

        WHEREAS, the business license official and city staff have reviewed Chapter 6-8 with the
goal of updating it; and

        WHEREAS, the proposed amendments to Chapter 6-8 are in the best interest of the
health, safety and welfare of Draper City and its residents and businesses.

     NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF DRAPER CITY,
STATE OF UTAH, AS FOLLOWS:


       Section 1.   Amendment. Chapter 8 of Title 6 of the Draper City Municipal Code is
hereby amended to read as set forth in Exhibit A.

        Section 2.    Correction of Editing Errors. The City Attorney is authorized to correct
any punctuation, spelling, formatting, or similar errors prior to submitting this Ordinance to the
codifier.

        Section 3.    Severability. If any section, part or provision of this Ordinance is held
invalid or unenforceable, such invalidity or unenforceability shall not affect any other portion of
this Ordinance, and all sections, parts and provisions of this Ordinance shall be severable.

       Section 4.     Effective Date. This Ordinance shall become effective immediately upon
publication or posting, or 30 days after final passage, whichever is closer to the date of final
passage.

PASSED AND ADOPTED BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF DRAPER CITY, STATE OF UTAH, ON
THE ___________DAY OF___________, 2023.

                                                     DRAPER CITY


                                                     _____________________________
                                                     Mayor Troy K. Walker




Ordinance No. 1584                               1                                  Title 6-8 (Solicitors)
                                                                                       Text Amendment
ATTEST:


_________________________________
Laura Oscarson, CMC, City Recorder


 VOTE TAKEN:                             YES   NO

 Councilmember Green

 Councilmember T. Lowery

 Councilmember F. Lowry

 Councilmember Roberts

 Councilmember Vawdrey

 Mayor Walker




Ordinance No. 1584                   2              Title 6-8 (Solicitors)
                                                       Text Amendment
                                        EXHIBIT A
                                       (Chapter 6-8)

6-8-010: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to protect Draper City residents from unreasonable
intrusions upon residential privacy, consumer fraud, and deceptive, high pressure,
factually unbalanced, or otherwise unfair consumer sales practices, in a manner
consistent with the constitutional rights of residential commercial solicitors to
communicate their messages to willing residential listeners. (Ord. 748, 3-13-2007)

6-8-020: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply:

APPLICANT: A person or organization that applies for a badge certificate of registration.

APPLICATION: The form provided by the city to apply for a badge certificate of
registration or the process of applying for a badge certificate of registration.
BADGE CERTIFICATION OF REGISTRATION (or “Badge”): The written authorization
to engage in commercial solicitation from the community development department of
Draper City.

HOME SOLICITATION SALE: A sale of goods or services in which the seller or a
person acting for him initiates contact and engages in a face to face face-to-face
solicitation of the sale at a residence of the resident and the resident's agreement or
offer to purchase is there given to the solicitor or a person acting for him. "Home
solicitation sale" shall not include a sale made between parties at a business
establishment at a fixed location where goods or services are offered or exhibited for
sale, or a sale made within a residence to a third person invited therein by the resident
where such sale was not initiated by unsolicited contact by a nonresident of the
residence.

REGISTERED SOLICITOR: Any person registered pursuant to this chapter who has
obtained a valid badge certificate of registration (or “certificate”) from the community
development department of Draper City.

RESIDENCE AND RESIDENTIAL: Any:

 A. Living unit contained within any building or structure that is occupied by any
    person as a dwelling in conformity with the zoning laws of Draper City, together
    with the lot or other real property on which such residence is located;

  B. Any apartment, nursing home room, assisted living home room, group home, or
other similar location; and or

  C. Any building or structure that houses the residence, together with the lot or other
real property on which such building or structure is located.
RESIDENT: Any person living in a residence.

SOLICIT, SOLICITED, SOLICITING OR SOLICITATION: Any of the following activities
engaged in with a resident person-to-person at his or her place of residence:

  A. Seeking to obtain orders for or the direct the sale or exchange of services, goods,
wares, merchandise or perishables of any kind, for any kind of remuneration or
consideration, regardless of whether advance payment is sought;

   B. Seeking to obtain prospective customers to apply for or to purchase insurance,
financial services, subscriptions to publications, or publications;

  C. Seeking to obtain contributions of money, services, or anything of value for the
benefit of any person, association, organization, corporation, or program;

 D. Seeking to obtain orders or prospective customers for goods or services; and or

  E. Seeking to obtain appointments or other opportunities to engage in any of the
activities listed in subsections A through D of this definition.

SOLICITOR: A person engaged in soliciting residents at their residences, which
includes posting of fliers, handbills, or other printed material. (Ord. 748, 3-13-2007)

6-8-030: UNREGISTERED SOLICITATION PROHIBITED:

   A. Badge Certificate Of Registration Required: All persons desiring to engage in
soliciting within Draper City who are not exempt under section 6-8-040 of this chapter
shall, prior to the commencement of solicitation, obtain from the Draper City business
license official a badge certificate of registration as solicitor prior to the commencement
of solicitation to starting to solicit. The executed original of this badge certificate of
registration shall be maintained by the business license official, and a legible copy shall
be worn by the registered solicitor at all times while soliciting in the city and shall be
produced for inspection upon the request of any resident being solicited or any Draper
City police officer.

  B. Violation Declared Nuisance: Unless a registered solicitor and wearing a
certificate of registration or exempt from registration under the provisions of this chapter,
a person who is present in or at a residence within Draper City for the purpose of
engaging in solicitation is hereby declared to be committing a nuisance and is
punishable as set forth in this chapter. (Ord. 748, 3-13-2007)

6-8-040: EXEMPTIONS FROM REGISTRATION:

The following activities are exempt from the registration requirements of section 6-8-050
6-8-030 of this chapter:
  A. Invited Solicitation: Solicitation which occurs as the result of a resident's prior and
express invitation to the solicitor to come onto such resident's property. An invited
solicitation shall not include the circumstance where the resident invites back a solicitor
who initiated the contact with the resident at the residence. A resident's failure to post a
"No Soliciting" notice in accordance with section 6-8-070 of this chapter shall not be
construed as an exemption from registration under this section, as an invitation to
solicitation by such resident, or as an expression of such resident's desire to hear or
receive solicitations.

  B. Noncommercial Solicitation: Solicitation which occurs as an incident to political,
religious, or other noncommercial door to door canvassing, pamphleteering, or other
dissemination of ideas.

  C. State Regulated Charitable Solicitation: Solicitation on behalf of:
     1) a charitable organization as defined by Utah Code Annotated section 13-22-
         2(12)(a); or
        2) an organization listed in Utah Code Annotated section 13-22-8(1); provided,
that:

        a) with respect to solicitation on behalf of a charitable organization as defined by
        section 13-22-8(1), tThe solicitor claiming this exemption or the charitable
        organization has provided written verification of the organization's charitable
        status to the Draper City business license official prior to the commencement of
        solicitation within the city;

        b) with respect to solicitation on behalf of an organization or entity described in
        Utah Code Annotated section 13-22-8(1)(g), tThe principal or other person
        authorized by the school under 13-22-8(1)(g) or the applicable school district
        shall provide written notice to the city that the school or school district has
        approved the solicitation prior to the commencement of solicitation with the city;
        and

        c) any solicitor relying on this exemption shall carry with him while soliciting photo
        identification showing the nature of his affiliation with the charitable or other
        organization exempt from registration under this subsection on whose behalf he
        is soliciting.

 D. De Minimis Solicitation: Solicitation involving the exchange, or contribution of
money, for services, or other consideration valued at less than fifty dollars ($50.00).

  E. D. Burden Of Proof: Any solicitor claiming an exemption under this section shall
bear the burden of proving his or her eligibility for, or the applicability of, the exemption
claimed. (Ord. 748, 3-13-2007)

6-8-050: APPLICATION FOR BADGE CERTIFICATE OF REGISTRATION, REVIEW,
ISSUANCE, DENIAL:
  A. Information And Documents Required: The Draper City business license official
shall provide a standard application form. for application for registration of solicitors to
include the information set forth herein. The applicant shall state upon oath or
affirmation that the information is truthfully provided to the best of the knowledge and
belief of the applicant. The applicant shall supply the following information upon or with
the application for registration:

    1. The applicant's true, correct and legal name, including any former names or
       aliases used within the last ten (10) years;

    2. The name of any organizations for which the applicant will be soliciting;

   3. The applicant's home and business address, and the address where the
applicant can be contacted locally;

   4. The names and addresses of applicant's directors, officers, and managers, if
any;

    5. Proof that either the applicant, or the organizations for which applicant will be
soliciting, has registered with the Utah state department of commerce;

   6. A special events sales tax number for either the applicant, or for the
organizations for which the applicant will be soliciting;

    7. The purpose for which soliciting will be done;

   8. Whether the applicant is a person against whom a judgment based upon fraud,
deceit, misrepresentation, false statements, or dishonesty has been entered within five
(5) years of the date of application;

   9. Whether the applicant has, within five (5) years of the date of application, been
enjoined by any court, or is the subject of an administrative order issued in this or
another state, if the injunction or order includes a finding or admission of fraud, material
misrepresentation, or if the injunction or order was based on a finding of lack of integrity
or truthfulness;

   10. Whether the applicant has been convicted of any felony, or a misdemeanor
involving fraud, deceit, misrepresentation, false statements, or dishonesty, within five (5)
years of the date of application;

  11. Whether the applicant has been criminally convicted of violating any of Utah
Code Annotated section 76-5-401, 76-5-401.1, 76-5-401.2, 76-5-402, 76-5-402.1, 76-5-
402.2, 76-5-402.3, 76-5-403, 76-5-403.1, 76-5-404, 76-5-404.1, 76-5-405, 76-5-412, 76-
5-413, 76-5a-3, 76-9-702, 76-9-702.5, or 76-9-702.7, or the corresponding laws of
another state; or is otherwise subject to registration as a sex offender under Utah law or
the corresponding law of another state;

  12. Whether the applicant has been denied a certificate of registration under this
chapter, as amended, within the year preceding the date of application, and whether the
applicant has corrected the deficiency on which the previous application was based;

 13. Whether the applicant has had a certificate of registration under this chapter, as
amended, revoked within the year preceding the date of application, and whether the
applicant has corrected the reason for which the certificate of registration was revoked;

 14. Whether an applicant's certificate of registration has been revoked within the year
preceding the date of application for violation of the nontransferability provision of this
chapter, as amended;

 15. Whether the applicant has been convicted of a violation of this chapter, as
amended, within one year preceding the date of application;

  16. The findings of a background check on the applicant conducted by the Utah
bureau of criminal investigations ("BCI") within the last one hundred eighty (180) days.
The applicant may apply for this service at the BCI offices at 3888 West 5400 South,
Salt Lake City Taylorsville, or at such other location as the BCI shall provide from time
to time. The application shall not be deemed complete until the applicant has delivered
the findings of the BCI background check to the license officer, and receipt of the
background check by the business license official shall be a condition precedent to
issuance of a certificate of registration; and

  17. An acknowledgment that solicitation will not commence until the solicitor is in full
compliance with this chapter.

  B. Incorrect Or Incomplete Information: If any information contained in the application
for registration becomes incorrect or incomplete, the applicant or registered solicitor
shall, within thirty (30) days after the information becomes incorrect or incomplete,
correct the application or file the complete information required herein within thirty (30)
days.

  C. Fees: The applicant shall pay application and processing fees as set by the city
from time to time; provided, however, that the total of any such fees shall not exceed
reasonable administrative costs incurred by the city to process an application and
maintain the related records.

  D. Grounds For Denial: A badge certificate of registration shall not be issued in any
of the following circumstances if:

   1. When the The applicant has falsified information on the application;

   2. When the The applicant is a person against whom a judgment based upon
fraud, deceit, misrepresentation, false statements, or dishonesty has been entered
within five (5) years of the date of application;

     3. When the The applicant has, within the past five (5) years, been enjoined by any
court, or is the subject of an administrative order issued in this or another state, if the
injunction or order includes a finding or admission of fraud, material misrepresentation,
or if the injunction or order was based on a finding of lack of integrity or truthfulness;

    4. When the The applicant has been convicted of any felony, or a misdemeanor
involving fraud, deceit, misrepresentation, false statements, or dishonesty, within five (5)
years of the date of application;

    5. When the applicant has been criminally convicted of violating any of Utah Code
Annotated section 76-5-401, 76-5-401.1, 76-5-401.2, 76-5-402, 76-5-402.1, 76-5-402.2,
76-5-402.3, 76-5-403, 76-5-403.1, 76-5-404, 76-5-404.1, 76-5-405, 76-5-412, 76-5-413,
76-5a-3, 76-9-702, 76-9-702.5, or 76-9-702.7, or the corresponding laws of another
state; or is otherwise subject to registration as a sex offender under Utah law or the
corresponding law of another state;

   5. The applicant is subject to registration as a sex offender under Utah law or the
corresponding law of another state, or has been criminally convicted of violating any
part of the following Utah Code chapters or the corresponding laws of another state:

       a. 76-5;

       b. 76-5b;

       c. 76-6 parts 2-7 or 11-13;

       d. 76-6a;

       e. 76-9 parts 402, 407 or 408;

       f. 76-9-702.1 or 702.5; or

       g. 76-10 parts 16, 18, or 24.

    6. When the The applicant has been denied a badge certificate of registration
under this chapter, as amended, within the year preceding the date of application,
unless the applicant has corrected the deficiency on which the previous application
denial was based;

    7. When the The applicant has had a badge certificate of registration under this
chapter, as amended, revoked within the year preceding the date of application, unless
the applicant has corrected the reason for which the certificate was revoked;
    8. When the The applicant's badge certificate of registration has been revoked
within the year preceding the date of application for violation of the non-transferability
provision of this chapter, as amended;

     9. When the The applicant has failed to supply any of the documents or information
listed in subsection A of this section, or has failed to pay any of the fees set by the city
in accordance with this chapter; or

   10. When the The applicant has been convicted of a violation of this chapter, as
amended, within one year preceding the date of application.

  E. Proof Of Identification Required: Initial proof of identification can be faxed to the
city or e-mailed to the city along with the completed application form; provided, that in-
person identification is verified with one of the following prior to or at the time of the
issuance of the certificate of registration. No badge certificate of registration shall be
issued to any applicant until the applicant submits one of the following to establish proof
of identification:

   1. A valid driver's license issued by any state;

   2. A valid United States uniformed service identification card;

   3. A valid passport issued by the United States; or

    4. Any other official document issued by the United States or any state or territory
thereof which contains the name and photograph of the applicant.

  F. Registration Complete Upon Completion Of Application: Registration shall be
deemed complete when the license officer has received all of the information and
documents listed in this section subsection A of this section and the applicant has paid
the applicable fee. The badge certificate of registration shall be issued within five (5)
business days following the applicant's completion of registration, unless one of the
circumstances listed in subsection D of this section applies.

 G. Form Of Certificate And Badge:

     1. Each certificate of registration issued by the business license official shall be
numbered, shall list the name of the individual solicitor and of any organization on
whose behalf the registered solicitor is authorized to solicit, the date on which the
certificate of registration expires, and shall be dated and signed by the business license
official or his or her authorized designee.

 2. 1. Each registered solicitor shall wear a badge prominently on his or her person,
consisting of a copy of the certificate of registration issued by the city, Each badge of
registration shall include
     a. A badge number;

     b. The name of the individual solicitors and any organization on whose behalf the
        registered solicitor is authorized to solicit, and the date on which the badge of
        registration expires;

     c. The signature of the business license official or his or her authorized designee;

     d. A solicitor-supplied photograph of the solicitor approximate approximately one
        and one-half inches by one inch (11/2" x 1") photograph of the solicitor that was
        taken within one year preceding the issuance of the badge certificate of
        registration. to be supplied by the solicitor, and the name and address of any
        entity with which the solicitor is associated. Such badge shall be worn at all
        times while the solicitor is engaged in soliciting.
   3. 2. All badges are and remain the property of the city.

    4. 3. By issuing a certificate of registration, the city does not guarantee the
accuracy of any representation contained in the application for registration or the badge
certificate of registration, nor does it warrant that any statement made by the registered
solicitor is truthful. The city makes no certification as to the worthiness of any
organization, its products or services, on whose behalf a solicitation is made nor as to
the moral character of the registered solicitor.

   5. 4. The following statement shall appear on each badge certificate of registration:

DRAPER CITY MAKES NO CERTIFICATION AS TO THE WORTHINESS OF ANY
ORGANIZATION, OR ITS PRODUCTS OR SERVICES, ON WHOSE BEHALF A
SOLICITATION IS MADE NOR AS TO THE MORAL CHARACTER OF THE
REGISTERED SOLICITOR.

   5. Each solicitor must prominently wear the badge of registration at all times while
the solicitor is engaged in soliciting.

  H. Renewal: A badge certificate of registration shall be valid for a period of one year
from the date of issuance. Any registered solicitor in good standing may have his or her
renew a badge certificate of registration renewed for an additional period of not to
exceed one year. An applicant desiring to obtain a badge of registration upon expiration
shall make a new application in accordance with the provisions of this chapter and pay
any applicable upon request within thirty (30) days prior to the expiration of the badge
certificate of registration and payment of a renewal fee as set by the city from time to
time; provided, however, that the total of any such fee shall not exceed reasonable
administrative costs incurred by the city to process the badge certificate of registration
renewal and maintain the related records. A registered solicitor is not in good standing if
he satisfies one or more grounds for denial or revocation within the meaning of this
chapter. An applicant desiring to obtain a badge certificate of registration upon
expiration of any renewal period shall make a new application in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter.

I.     Non-transferability: Badges certificate of registration shall be issued only in the
name of the applicant and the firm, corporation or association on whose behalf the
applicant is authorized to solicit. The badge certificate of registration is nontransferable
in all respects. It shall It is constitute a violation of this chapter for a solicitor whose
certificate of registration authorizes soliciting on behalf of a person or firm named in a
certificate of registration to solicit on behalf of any other person or firm, organization, or
association not specified on the badge of registration or for any purpose other than that
specified in the application. Any certificate of registration used by a person other than
the person to whom it was originally issued is void, and the city is authorized to
confiscate and immediately cancel any such certificate of registration.

  J. . Certificate Badge Registry: The business license official shall maintain a registry of
and make available for public inspection a record of every application received, together
with any information pertaining thereto, all badges certificate of registration issued, and
all pending and denied applications., with the exception of any portion of the application
received and any information pertaining thereto that qualifies as private or protected
within the meaning of the government records access and management act, Utah Code
Annotated section 63G-2-101 et seq. Each new application shall be numbered in
consecutive order and each badge certificate of registration issued shall be assigned a
number exclusive to the registered solicitor. Each badge certificate of registration
renewed shall be identified with the duplicate number of the application upon which it
was initially issued. The business license official shall furnish to the chief of police or the
director of public safety a listing of all badges certificate of registration issued and
renewed and such chief or director shall maintain such listing for public inspection and
for identification.

 K. Revocation Of Certificate: Any certificate of registration issued pursuant to the
provisions of this chapter shall be revoked by the business license official if, following
issuance of the certificate of registration, the business license official determines that
the registered solicitor was is convicted of a violation that would serve as grounds of
denial of a badge of registration of this chapter or committed an act or became subject
to a condition that would disqualify him or her from receiving a certificate of registration
under subsection D of this section. The business license official shall immediately
provide notice Notice of revocation shall be immediately given to the registered solicitor
by personal service or certified mail to the address listed on the application and, if
applicable, to the organization for which the registered solicitor was soliciting. The
notice shall set forth the factual basis for the revocation and shall outline the licensee’s
right to appeal the decision of revocation and the appeal procedure and, if applicable,
the specific provision(s) of subsection D of this section that identifies and defines the
disqualifying conduct. Immediately upon the giving of such notice, the badge certificate
of registration shall become void and shall remain so until the revocation is rescinded.
Upon receiving notice of revocation of any badge certificate of registration, the
registered solicitor shall forthwith return the related badge to the city.
L. Appeal of Decision to Deny or Revoke a Badge of Registration: The appeal
procedure shall follow the same process outlined in chapter 3 of this title. An applicant
whose registration is denied by the license officer or a registered solicitor whose
certificate of registration is revoked by the license officer shall have the right to appeal
such denial or revocation to the council at a meeting to be held no later than twenty (20)
business days following the city's receipt of the applicant's notice of appeal. The notice
of appeal shall be in writing and shall be delivered either in person upon written receipt
or by certified U.S. mail to the Draper City recorder, with a copy to the business license
official, within ten (10) business days of the applicant's or registered solicitor's receipt of
the decision from which the appeal is taken. Such notice of appeal shall identify the
applicant or registered solicitor, set forth the decision of the business license official that
is being appealed, and state the grounds for appeal. Within ten (10) business days of
the meeting at which the applicant's or registered solicitor's appeal is heard, the city
council shall issue a decision either affirming or reversing the actions of the business
license official in denying an applicant's registration or revoking the registered solicitor's
certificate of registration. (Ord. 748, 3-13-2007)

6-8-060: DECEPTIVE SOLICITING PRACTICES PROHIBITED:

  A. False, Misleading Statements: No solicitor shall make any materially false,
misleading, or fraudulent statement in the course of soliciting. No solicitor shall fail to
state a material fact necessary to make statements made, in the context of the
circumstances under which they are made, not misleading.

  B. Disclosure Required: A solicitor shall immediately disclose to the resident at the
beginning of any face to face face-to-face solicitation either verbally or by means of a
writing to be handed to the resident: 1) the name of the solicitor; 2) the name and
address of the entity with whom the solicitor is associated or for which the solicitor is
soliciting; and 3) the purpose of the solicitor's contact with the resident.

  C. Use Of Legal Name Required: No solicitor shall use a fictitious name, an alias, or
any name other than his or her legal name.

  D. Represent Endorsement By City Prohibited: No solicitor shall represent directly or
by implication that the city endorses the solicitation, or that the granting of a badge
certificate of registration implies endorsement by the city of the solicitor or his or her
product or service. (Ord. 748, 3-13-2007)

6-8-070: "NO SOLICITING" NOTICES:

  A. Permitted: Any resident may give notice of his or her unwillingness to listen to
solicitations or receive solicitors by displaying at his or her residence a placard or sign
no smaller than sixteen (16) square inches stating "No Soliciting", "No Solicitors", "No
Trespassing" or words of similar import. Such placard or sign shall be posted on or near
the main entrance door or on or near the property line adjacent to the sidewalk leading
to the residence.

  B. Applicability: The display of a "No Soliciting" or similar sign or placard shall
constitute notice to any solicitor that the resident is unwilling to listen to solicitations.
(Ord. 748, 3-13-2007)

6-8-080: CERTAIN SOLICITATIONS PROHIBITED:

  A. Obligation To Check For Posting: It shall be a violation of this chapter for any
solicitor to attempt to solicit at a residence at or on which has been posted a "No
Soliciting" sign or placard in accordance with section 6-8-070 of this chapter. All
solicitors are under the legal obligation to affirmatively check each residence for any
such sign or placard. If such sign or placard is posted, a solicitor shall desist from any
efforts to solicit at the residence and shall immediately depart therefrom.

  B. Violation When Posted: It is a violation of this chapter for any solicitor to knock on
the door, ring the door bell, or in any other manner attempt to attract the attention of an
occupant of a residence that bears a "No Soliciting" or similar sign or placard. It is a
violation of this chapter for any solicitor through ruse, deception, or concealment of a
purpose to solicit, to take action calculated to secure an audience with the occupant of a
residence that has posted a "No Soliciting" or similar sign or placard.

  C. Failure To Depart: It is a violation of this chapter for any solicitor who is at any
time asked by the resident to leave, to fail to immediately and peacefully depart. (Ord.
748, 3-13-2007)

6-8-090: TIME OF DAY:

It shall be unlawful for any person, whether a registered solicitor or not, to solicit any
person at a residence before eight o'clock (8:00) A.M. or after nine o'clock (9:00) P.M.
Mountain Time on business days, or before nine o'clock (9:00) A.M. or after nine o'clock
(9:00) P.M. Mountain Time, on Saturdays, Sundays, or legal holidays as set forth in
Utah Code Annotated section 63G-1-301-2, unless the solicitor has express prior
permission from the resident to do so. (Ord. 748, 3-13-2007)

6-8-100: RIGHT TO CANCEL RESIDENTIAL SOLICITATION SALE:

In any residential solicitation sale, unless the buyer requests the seller to provide goods
or services without delay in an emergency, the solicitor shall present to the resident and
obtain resident's signature to a written statement which informs the resident of his or her
unconditional right to cancel the sale on or before the third business day after the date
of sale. Any documents memorializing the sale shall accurately set forth the date of the
sale. Such notice of "buyer's right to cancel" shall be in the form required by Utah Code
Annotated section 70C-5-103, or a current or amended version thereof or any state or
federal law modifying or amending such provision. (Ord. 748, 3-13-2007)
6-8-110: PENALTIES:

Any person who engages in soliciting without complying with the requirements of this
chapter or violates any other terms or provisions of this chapter shall be guilty of a class
B misdemeanor and shall be punished by a fine of not to exceed one thousand dollars
($1,000.00) and/or a jail sentence of not to exceed six (6) months. A second offense
within five (5) years of a prior conviction under this chapter may be prosecuted and
punished as a class A misdemeanor. (Ord. 748, 3-13-2007)

6-8-120: PRIVATE RIGHT OF ACTION:

A resident who has suffered injury or damage as the result of violation of this chapter
shall have the right to bring a civil action for damages against the violator in the
appropriate court within the state of Utah. (Ord. 748, 3-13-2007)
