MINUTES OF THE DRAPER CITY PLANNING COMMISSION MEETING HELD ON
THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 9, 2023 IN THE DRAPER CITY COUNCIL CHAMBERS

PARTICIPATING:       Andrew Adams, Chairman
                     Craig Hawker, Vice-Chair
                     Commission Member Mary Squire
                     Commission Member DeLaina Tonks
                     Alternate Commission Member Susan Nixon
                     Alternate Commission Member Tab Bingham

ABSENT:              Commission Member Lisa Fowler
                     Commission Member Gary Ogden
                     Alternate Commission Member Kendra Shirey

STAFF PRESENT:       Jennifer Jastremsky, Planning Manager
                     Spencer DuShane, Assistant City Attorney
                     Maryann Pickering, City Planner III
                     Brien Maxfield, Senior Engineer Manager
                     Amie Salazar, Office Manager

6:30 PM Business Meeting

Chair Adams called the meeting to order.

1.     Action Item: Approve Planning Commission Meeting Minutes for January 12, 2023,
       (Administrative Action).

Motion: Commissioner Tonks moved to APPROVE the January 12, 2023, Meeting Minutes.

Second: Commissioner Squire.

Vote: A roll call was taken with the Commissioners voting 5-to-0 in favor of the motion.
Commissioners Hawker, Squire, Tonks, Nixon, and Bingham voted “Aye”. The motion
passed unanimously.

2.     Public Hearing: Cola’s Little Treaterie Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit
       (Administrative Action).
       On the request of Alexis Ao, for a Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit for a cottage
       business making dehydrated dog treats with online sales located at 14118 S. Deer Arch
       Lane. The property is 0.09 acres in size and located in the RM1 zone. Application: USE-
       217-2022.     Staff    contact:      Maryann      Pickering    at   801-576-6391     or
       maryann.pickering@draperutah.gov.

City Planner III, Maryann Pickering, presented the Staff Report and stated that the property is
located in Deer Run Preserve. The property is a single-family residence with a land use of
Residential Medium-High Density in the RM1 Zone. The request is for a home occupation for a
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
February 9, 2023
Page 2

cottage business. The applicant plans to make homemade dog treats with all of the work being
done in the kitchen using typical household appliances. She will use a food dehydrator to dry out
the meats and the treats that are made. All orders will be done online with the product shipped to
the purchaser. No customers will come to the home. Staff received an email from someone who
was opposed to the request, but they were under the impression that the use was to take place
outside and that it would be a large commercial business. Another individual contacted
Ms. Pickering as well asking for clarification. They were concerned that the work would be done
outside. Ms. Pickering assured them that it would be done inside the home, which satisfied their
concerns with the application.

The applicant, Alexis Ao, reported that the product will be dehydrated dog treats made of beef,
chicken, and salmon that will be sold online. The production process will not create any odors
other than typical cooking.

Chair Adams opened the public hearing. There were no public comments. The public hearing
was closed.

Motion: Commissioner Squire moved to APPROVE the Home Occupation Conditional Use
Permit as requested by Alexis Ao, Application USE-217-2022 subject to the following:

Conditions:

       1.      All requirements of the Draper City Fire Department, Building Division, and
               Business License Division shall be satisfied throughout the operation of the
               home occupation on the property.

       2.      The home occupation is required to maintain approval and adequate licensure
               from any and all necessary agencies.

Findings:

       1.      Reasonable mitigation measures can be placed on the conditional use to
               alleviate anticipated detrimental effects.

Second: Commissioner Hawker.

Vote: A roll call was taken with the Commissioners voting 5-to-0 in favor of the motion.
Commissioners Hawker, Squire, Tonks, Nixon, and Bingham voted “Aye”. The motion
passed unanimously.
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
February 9, 2023
Page 3

3.     Public Hearing: Simmons Lot Line Adjustment Plat Amendment Request
       (Administrative Action).
       On the request of Lahn Simmons, property owner, for approval to amend the Pheasant Hills
       Phase 4 Plat in order to adjust the common property line between Lots 410, 412 and 413.
       The three properties affected are approximately 1.163 acres in size and located at
       approximately 2052 East Graystone Court. Staff contact: Maryann Pickering at 801-576-
       6391 or maryann.pickering@draperutah.gov.

Ms. Pickering presented the Staff Report and identified the location of the subject property on the
east side of the City. The land use designation is Residential Medium Density with a zoning of
RA2. The three lots identified have historically involved the use of each other’s property without
the knowledge of the property owners until a recent survey was conducted. The purpose of the lot
line adjustment was to correct errors that exist. All standards will be met and there will be no non-
conforming structures created. All three property owners signed the application and are aware of
the proposed change. There were no plans by any of the property owners to add on to their
properties.

Chair Adams opened the public hearing. There were no public comments. The public hearing
was closed.

Motion: Commissioner Tonks moved to APPROVE the Simmons Lot Line Adjustment Plat
Amendment as requested by Lahn Simmons, Application Number SUBC-189-2022 subject
to the following:

Condition:

      1.       Section 17-9-070 of the Draper City Municipal Code specifies that the
               approval of a Plat Amendment expires one year from the date of approval if
               the plat has not been recorded or construction of the required landscaping and
               infrastructure has not commenced. The expiration of the approval can also be
               avoided through an extension of the approval. A maximum of one extension
               for a period of up to six months can be requested in writing to the Community
               Development Department prior to the date of expiration.

Finding:

       1.      There is good cause for the vacation or amendment; and no public street,
               right-of-way, or easement has been vacated or amended.

Second: Commissioner Bingham.
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
February 9, 2023
Page 4

Vote: A roll call was taken with the Commissioners voting 5-to-0 in favor of the motion.
Commissioners Hawker, Squire, Tonks, Nixon, and Bingham voted “Aye”. The motion
passed unanimously.

4.     Public Hearing: Lyle McAllister Zoning Map Amendment (Legislative Item).
       On the request of Lyle McAllister a Zoning Map Amendment to change the zoning
       designation from RA1 to RA2 for approximately 0.92 acres located at approximately 275
       E. 13275 South known as Application TEXTMAP-221-2022. Staff contact is Todd
       Draper, (801) 576-6335, todd.draper@draperutah.gov.

Planning Manager, Jennifer Jastremsky, presented the Staff Report and stated that the subject
property is located off 300 East near 13200 South. There is currently a single-family home on the
property. The applicant is looking to sell some of his backyard to the adjacent neighbor to the rear.
The first step in that process is to rezone the property. The property is in the Medium Density land
use designation, which supports two to four dwelling units per acre. Currently, the property is in
the RA1 zoning district, which allows minimum 40,000 square-foot lots. The subject property is
.92-acre in size. The proposal is to rezone the property to RA2, which requires a minimum 20,000
square-foot lot size. The property is surrounded on multiple sides by RA2 zoning. The reduction
in the minimum lot size would allow the applicant to pursue a plat amendment to sell a portion of
the property. Ms. Jastremsky stated that the Code does not have any restrictions on spot zoning.
RA1 and RA2 are similar within the Code and have different lot sizes. Both, however, are
considered large lots with animal rights.

In response to a question raised, Ms. Jastremsky explained that if the property owner were to sell
his property, he would not have enough acreage to subdivide into two parcels. It was noted that
the stem of a flag lot does not count toward the minimum lot size. The applicant would not have
enough acreage to provide a stem going back and two 20,000 square-foot lots. After the sale, the
remaining square footage of the lot will be at least 20,000 square feet.

The applicant, Lyle McAllister, reported that he is selling .13-acre. He will be left with .79-acre,
which is not enough to subdivide.

Chair Adams opened the public hearing. There were no public comments. The public hearing
was closed.

The comment was made that because the property cannot be subdivided, the request would not set
a precedence. Commissioner support was expressed. It was noted that what is proposed would
not change the feel of the neighborhood and will not impact the neighbors.

Motion: Commissioner Hawker moved to forward a POSITIVE recommendation to the City
Council for the Zoning Map Amendment as requested by Lyle McAllister, Application
TEXTMAP-221-2022 based on the following:
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
February 9, 2023
Page 5

Findings:

       1.     The proposed amendment is consistent with goals, objectives and policies of
              the City's General Plan.

       2.     The proposed amendment is harmonious with the overall character of existing
              development in the vicinity of the subject property.

       3.     The proposed amendment is consistent with the standards of any applicable
              overlay zone.

       4.     The proposed amendment does not adversely affect adjacent property.

       5.     Adequate facilities and services exist to serve the subject property, including,
              but not limited to, roadways, parks and recreation facilities, police and fire
              protection, schools, stormwater drainage systems, water supplies, and
              wastewater and refuse collection.

Second: Commissioner Nixon.

Vote: A roll call was taken with the Commissioners voting 5-to-0 in favor of the motion.
Commissioners Hawker, Squire, Tonks, Nixon, and Bingham voted “Aye”. The motion
passed unanimously.

5.     Public Hearing: Federal Heights Holdings LLC Zoning and Land Use Amendments
       (Legislative Action)
       On the request of Marlon Bates, representing Chris Silvestro, for a land use map
       amendment from Community Commercial to Neighborhood Commercial and a rezone
       from RA1 to CN (Neighborhood Commercial) for approximately 1.19 acres located at
       approximately 11743 S. 700 East. Applications: TEXTMAP-204-2022 (Zoning) and
       TEXTMAP-206-2022 (Land Use). Staff contact: Maryann Pickering at 801-576-6391 or
       maryann.pickering@draperutah.gov.

The above item was to be continued.

Motion: Commissioner Squire moved to CONTINUE agenda item number five, Federal
Heights Holding, LLC Zoning and Land Use Amendments to a date uncertain.

Second: Commissioner Nixon.
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
February 9, 2023
Page 6

Vote: A roll call was taken with the Commissioners voting 5-to-0 in favor of the motion.
Commissioners Hawker, Squire, Tonks, Nixon, and Bingham voted “Aye”. The motion
passed unanimously.

6.     Public Hearing: City Initiated Water-Wise Landscaping and Site Amendments Text
       Amendment (Legislative Item)
       On the request of Draper City for a Text Amendment to Titles 9 and 17 of Draper City
       Municipal Code in order to amend regulations regarding definitions, site plan review, site
       design, landscaping including water-wise landscaping, screening, parking area design,
       outdoor storage and display, and related subdivision requirements. This application is
       known as the City Initiated Water-Wise Landscaping and Site Amendments Text
       Amendment. Application: TEXT-187-2022. Staff contact: Todd Draper, 801-576-6335,
       todd.draper@draperutah.gov.

The above item was to be continued. Ms. Jastremsky reported that staff was continuing to work
with the Jordan Valley Water Conservancy District (“JVWCD”) before bringing the matter back
for final recommendation.

Motion: Commissioner Squire moved to CONTINUE agenda item number six, City-
Initiated Water-Wise Landscaping and Site Amendments Text Amendment to a date
uncertain.

Second: Commissioner Tonks.

Vote: A roll call was taken with the Commissioners voting 5-to-0 in favor of the motion.
Commissioners Hawker, Squire, Tonks, Nixon, and Bingham voted “Aye”. The motion
passed unanimously.

7.     Adjournment.

Ms. Jastremsky reported that the Utah American Planning Association (“APA”) Conference is
scheduled for May 10 to 12 in Vernal. Those interested in attending were asked to contact Office
Manager, Amie Salazar.

Motion: Commissioner Nixon moved to ADJOURN. The motion passed with the unanimous
consent of the Commission.

The meeting adjourned at 6:54 p.m.
