MEMO
To: City Council
From: Maryann Pickering, AICP
Date: 2023-11-07
Re: Public Hearing: Ordinances #1593 and #1594


Comments:


This application is a request for approval of a Master Area Plan (MAP) and Text Amendment for
approximately 15.24 acres located on the east side of 600 West, at approximately 496 W. 13490
South. The property is currently zoned TSD. The applicant is requesting that a MAP Amendment
and Text Amendment be approved to eliminate the office use from the plan and expand the retail
and residential areas on the approximate 8.79 acres on the south of the development.



The original MAP was approved by the City Council on March 6, 2018. That master plan approved
250 residential units, 125,000 square feet of office space, and 10,000 square feet of retail space.
The MAP had a Phase 2 option which would allow for a second 125,000 square foot office building
and a parking structure.



In 2021, a request was made to amend the MAP to remove an office building and add two
residential buildings. The request also included the removal of all references to a hotel from the
design standards. The request was heard by the City Council on January 11, 2022 and no action
was taken. The application was subsequently put on hold at the request of the applicant and no
further action has been taken.



The Planning Commission forwarded a unanimous positive recommendation for both applications
on October 29, 2023.



Master Area Plan Amendment

The findings for approval as are follows:




1. The proposal complies with all of the required elements under DCMC Section 9-14-060.

2. The master circulation plan adequately serves the MAP area and areas surrounding the project.
3. The MAP provides for a community character substantially consistent with the purposes of the
TSD, including the provision for at least twenty five percent (25%) commercial, retail, or office uses.
4. The development standards and design guidelines are high quality transit oriented design
standards, including the use of high quality building materials.



The findings for denial as are follows:




1. The proposal does not comply with all of the required elements under DCMC Section 9-14-060.

2. The master circulation plan is not adequate to serve the MAP area and areas surrounding the
project.
3. The MAP does not provide for a community character substantially consistent with the purposes
of the TSD, including the provision for at least twenty five percent (25%) commercial, retail, or office
uses.
4. The development standards and design guidelines are not high quality transit oriented design
standards, including the use of high quality building materials.




Text Amendment

The findings for approval as are follows:




1. The proposed amendment is consistent with goals, objectives and policies of the city's general
plan.

2. The proposed amendment furthers the specific purpose statements of the zoning ordinance.
3. The proposed amendment is appropriate given the context of the request and there is sufficient
justification for a modification to the zoning ordinance.
4. The proposed amendment will not create a conflict with any other section or part of this title or
the general plan.
5. The potential effects of the proposed amendment have been evaluated and determined not to
be detrimental to public health, safety, or welfare and represents an overall community benefit.
6. The proposed text amendment implements best current, professional practices of urban
planning, design, and engineering practices.



The findings for denial as are follows:
1. The proposed amendment is not consistent with goals, objectives and policies of the city's
general plan.

2. The proposed amendment does not further the specific purpose statements of the zoning
ordinance.
3. The proposed amendment is not appropriate given the context of the request and there is not
sufficient justification for a modification to the zoning ordinance.
4. The proposed amendment will create a conflict with another section or part of this title or the
general plan.
5. The potential effects of the proposed amendment have been evaluated and determined to be
detrimental to public health, safety, or welfare and does not represent an overall community
benefit.
6. The proposed text amendment does not implement best current, professional practices of
urban planning, design, and engineering practices.



ATTACHMENTS:

Ordinance 1593 - MAP.pdf
ATTACHMENTS:

Ordinance 1594 - TA.pdf
ATTACHMENTS:

PC Staff Report
