                                   ORDINANCE NO. 1581

        AN ORDINANCE OF DRAPER CITY AMENDING THE TEXT OF THE LAND USE
        AND DEVELOPMENT CODE OF THE DRAPER CITY MUNICIPAL CODE
        RELATING TO IKEA PARKING AND SIGN STANDARDS AND CONCEPT PLAN.

      WHEREAS, Utah State law grants to Draper City the authority to regulate uses of
property by zoning districts; and

       WHEREAS, it is necessary from time to time to revise certain terms of the Draper City
Municipal Code to address provisions that become diminished in appropriateness,
applicability, or clarity; and

       WHEREAS, the Land Use and Development Code of the Draper City Municipal Code
has been established to provide regulations concerning general developments within the
City Boundaries; and

      WHEREAS, the City Council of Draper City adopted the Land Use and Development
Code to guide development within the City Boundaries; and

       WHEREAS, the City Council of Draper City finds good cause to revise the terms and
provisions of the Land Use and Development Code regarding the Ikea parking and sign
standards and concept plan; and

      WHEREAS, notice has been issued according to the requirements of the Utah Code
Annotated and Draper City Municipal Code for public hearings before the Planning
Commission and City Council to receive public input regarding the revision of the Land Use
and Development Code; and

       WHEREAS, the Planning Commission and City Council have each held a public hearing
to receive public input regarding the revision of the Land Use and Development Code.

      NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF DRAPER CITY, STATE
OF UTAH, AS FOLLOWS:

       Section 1.     Findings. The City Council of Draper City has made the following
findings that the proposed text amendment regarding the Land Use and Development
Code in regards to the Ikea parking and sign standards and concept plan: 1. The proposed
amendment is consistent with goals, objectives and policies of the city's general plan. 2.
The proposed amendment furthers the specific purpose statements of the zoning
ordinance. 3. The proposed amendment is appropriate given the context of the request
and there is sufficient justification for a modification to the zoning ordinance. 4. The
proposed amendment will not create a conflict with any other section or part of this title or

Ordinance No. 1581                            1                                            Ikea
                                                                                Text Amendment
the general plan. 5. The potential effects of the proposed amendment have been
evaluated and determined not to be detrimental to public health, safety, or welfare and
represents an overall community benefit. 6. The proposed text amendment implements
best current, professional practices of urban planning, design, and engineering practices.

       Section 2.      Revision. Section/Subsection 9-18B-060, 9-18B-080, and 9-18B-110 of
the Land Use and Development Code of the Draper City Municipal Code are hereby revised
to read as set forth in Exhibit A.

        Section 3.   Severability. If any section, part or provision of this Ordinance is held
invalid or unenforceable, such invalidity or unenforceability shall not affect any other portion
of this Ordinance, and all sections, parts and provisions of this Ordinance shall be severable.

        Section 4.   Effective Date. This Ordinance shall become effective immediately
upon publication or posting, or 30 days after final passage, whichever is closer to the date of
final passage.

PASSED AND ADOPTED BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF DRAPER CITY, STATE OF UTAH, ON THE
___________DAY OF___________, 2023.

                                                   DRAPER CITY



                                                   _____________________________
                                                   Mayor Troy K. Walker

ATTEST:



_________________________________
Laura Oscarson, CMC, City Recorder



 VOTE TAKEN:                                         YES                     NO

 Councilmember Green

 Councilmember T. Lowery

 Councilmember F. Lowry

 Councilmember Roberts


Ordinance No. 1581                             2                                              Ikea
                                                                                   Text Amendment
 Councilmember Vawdrey

 Mayor Walker




Ordinance No. 1581       3              Ikea
                             Text Amendment
                                         EXHIBIT A

Article B. Dahle Retail Center Commercial Special District

9-18B-060: PARKING DESIGN:

A. Required Parking: For uses greater than one hundred eighty thousand (180,000) square
feet, required parking shall be four (4)2.5 stalls for every one thousand (1,000) square feet
of commercial use; for uses equal to or greater than one hundred forty thousand (140,000)
square feet but less than one hundred eighty thousand (180,000) square feet, required
parking shall be 2.83 stalls for every one thousand (1,000) square feet of commercial use;
for uses equal to or greater than seventy five thousand (75,000) square feet but less than
one hundred forty thousand (140,000) square feet, required parking shall be 4.5 stalls for
every one thousand (1,000) square feet of commercial use; for uses less than seventy five
thousand (75,000) square feet, required parking shall be five (5) parking stalls for every one
thousand (1,000) square feet of commercial use, except that for sit down restaurants, the
ratio shall be modified to ten (10) stalls for every one thousand (1,000) square feet of
commercial use. However, for any anticipated use, or combination of uses, modifications to
the standards may be authorized, if justified by a parking study and approved by the
planning commission, in accordance with section 9-25-090 of this title. Such study must
present data on the proposed uses, square footages and floor plans, hours of operation,
and shared parking areas within the sites.

B. Pedestrian Corridors: Pedestrian corridors shall be identified by a change in color or
scoring of pavement material, or striping with an emphasis on pedestrian safety.



9-18B-080: SIGNAGE:

A. Tower Signs: Signage is very important to the success of the Dahle CSD. Freeway
frontage of more than one thousand three hundred feet (1,300') warrants special signage
consideration. For this reason, the district shall be allowed one project tower sign not to
exceed one hundred feet (100') in height (the "project tower sign"), two (2) tower signs not
to exceed forty feet (40') in height (the "2 tower signs"), and one tower sign not to exceed
twelve feet (12') in height (the "small tower sign"). These tower signs shall have the
additional features described hereafter:

1. The project tower sign shall have the following specifications:

    a. It may be up to one hundred feet (100') in height;

    b. It may have up to two thousand (2,000) square feet in area;

    c. It may be multisided with sign panels on each side, but shall be supported by three
    (3) integrally designed supports; and

    d. It shall be located on or about the southeast corner of lot 1.
2. The two (2) tower signs shall have the following specifications:

   a. They each may be up to forty feet (40') in height and be twenty five feet (25') wide;

   b. They each may be double sided with sign panels on each side;

   c. A total of two hundred (200) square feet of sign panel signage may be located on
   each side of each of these two (2) tower signs; and

   d. One of these two (2) tower signs shall be located on or about the northwest corner
   of lot 2 and the other of these two (2) tower signs shall be located on or about the
   northeast corner of lot 3 in the Dahle CSD as shown in section 9-18B-110, exhibit A of
   this article.

3. The small tower sign shall have the following specifications:

   a. It may be up to twelve feet (12') in height and be 7.5 feet wide;

   b. It may be double sided with sign panels on each side;

   c. A total of fifty (50) square feet of sign panel signage may be located on each side of
   this small tower sign; and

   d. It shall be located on or about the northeast corner of lot 5 in the Dahle CSD as
   shown in section 9-18B-110, exhibit A of this article.

The project tower sign, the two (2) tower signs and the small tower sign shall be consistent
with the quality of signs typically found in class A shopping centers and may be multi-
tenant. An example of this kind of tower sign is the tower sign installed within the Draper
Peaks CSD. Tower sign locations shall be generally as shown on the site plan. No digital or
reader board signs will be permitted within the Dahle CSD.

B. Wall Signs: Wall signs on buildings other than the principal building and major building
may be installed by individual businesses based on 1.5 square feet per linear foot of
building wall, which shall be internally illuminated. For the principal building and the major
building, this ratio will be increased to 2.0 square feet per linear foot of building wall in
total, which total square footage can be reallocated among building facades by occupants
within the principal building and the major building. Wall signs on the principal building
and the major building may be illuminated in a manner consistent with the user's
corporate determined architectural style, whether internally or externally illuminated. Wall
signs on principal buildings may be electronic message center signs and shall comply with
the standards found in 9-26-090(D)(1) of this title.

C. Directional, Informational Signs: Within lot 1 and lot 2, directional and informational
signage shall not exceed thirteen feet (13') in height and may be located throughout the
parking and circulation areas of such lots. Within lot 1 and lot 2, signage design consistent
with the lot user's corporate determined architectural style shall be permitted. Separate
sign permits are not required for directional and informational signage, and shall be
considered approved as noted and located on the approved site plan for each phase or lot.
Directional and informational signage shall not be counted as monument or building
signage.

D. Flags, Banners: Decorative flags and banners are also an important component of the
Dahle CSD. These flags and banners contribute to a festive atmosphere consistent with
desirable commercial projects with freeway visibility in Draper City. Flags and banners may
be externally illuminated by spotlights or similar lights. Poles for flags shall not exceed
forty feet (40') in height and they may vary in circumference and diameter. For the principal
building, a total of twenty four (24) flags and one building mounted banner shall be allowed
so long as the design is consistent with the user's corporate determined architectural style,
and each flag size shall not exceed six feet (6') wide by eighteen feet (18') tall, and the
building mounted banner shall not exceed thirty feet (30') wide by twenty feet (20') high.
For the major building, a total of twelve (12) flags and one building mounted banner shall
be allowed so long as the design is consistent with the user's corporate determined
architectural style, and each flag size shall not exceed six feet (6') wide by eighteen feet (18')
tall, and the building mounted banner shall not exceed thirty feet (30') wide by fifteen feet
(15') high. There shall be no limit to the number of national and state flags flown, poles for
which can also be up to forty feet (40') in height and also can vary in circumference and
diameter. With the exception of national and state flags, which may be located anywhere
on a lot, all flags shall be located at an entrance to the Dahle CSD from a public road or else
be located close, within twenty feet (20') or less, to the facade of the building. Flags and
banners shall not be counted as monument or building signage.

E. Compatibility: All signage shall be architecturally generally compatible with the buildings
in the Dahle CSD. Final design details shall be submitted for administrative review and
approval with the site plan submittal as provided in procedures below. No electronic
signage or exposed neon signage will be permitted. (Ord. 1020, 8-7-2012)
9-18B-110: EXHIBITS:

 EXHIBIT A
