MEMO
To: City Council
From: Travis DeJong
Date: 2023-09-12
Re: Approval of Ordinance #1584


Comments:

Title 6 Chapter 8 of the Draper City Municipal code has not been substantially revised since 2007.
Community Development in conjunction with Legal has reviewed Chapter 8 to bring the chapter up-to-
date. The following is a list of the most significant revisions:

1. Certificate and Badge of Registration

DCMC currently requires the issuance of both a badge and certificate granting the solicitor permission to
solicit.

This ordinance abolishes the requirement to issue a certificate.

2. Scope of Soliciting

This ordinance amends the definition of "Solicit, Solicited, Soliciting or Solicitation" to specify that only
person-to-person solicitation requires registration with the City. It also adds language stating the direct
sale of goods requires a soliciting license with the City. This ordinance also removes reference to the
posting of fliers, handbills, or other printed material in the definition of "Solicitor."

3. De Minimum Solicitation

DCMC currently exempts solicitors from registering if the services they are offering are valued at less
than $50.

This ordinance abolishes this exemption.

4. Application Requirements

DCMC currently contains a list of requirements pertaining to a solicitor license application.

This ordinance abolishes the list of requirements allowing the Business License Official to amend the
application as needed.

5. Issuance of Badge of Registration

DCMC currently requires newly-registered solicitors to pick up their solicitor badge at City Hall in person.

This ordinance abolishes the need for the newly-registered solicitor to pick up the badge in person.
6. Penalties for unregistered solicitors

DCMC currently states if a person unlawfully solicits within five (5) years of a previous conviction of
soliciting without meeting the requirements of Title 6 Chapter 8, they are guilty of a class A
misdemeanor.

This ordinance removes the penalty for a second offense. A first offense is a class B misdemeanor.

7. Other minor edits and corrections to comply with grammar and add clarity.

The proposed amendments comply with state law and promote the health, safety, and welfare of Draper
residents.



ATTACHMENTS:

Ordinance 1584 -- Chapter 6-8 Solicitors.docx
ATTACHMENTS:

Title 6 Chapter 8 Code Changes.pptx
