Coversheet
Item Coversheet MEMO To: City Council Meeting
From: Maryann Pickering, AICP
CC:  Date: January 10, 2023
Re: Southfork Lot 2 Zoning Map Amendment Comments: This application is a request for approval of Zoning Map Amendment for approximately 1.61 acres located on the south side of 13800 South.  The property is currently zoned RA1.  The applicant is requesting a Zoning Map Amendment from RA1 to RA2.  The site is currently developed with a single family residence where the applicants live.
The subject property is located in the Southfork subdivision which was recorded in May, 1991.  The property is Lot 2 of the subdivision.
The Planning Commission reviewed this item at their December 8, 2022 meeting and forwarded a negative recommendation on a 3-1 vote. The findings are as follows: For approval:
1.  The proposed amendment is consistent with goals, objectives and policies of the city’s general plan.
2.  The proposed amendment is harmonious with the overall character of existing development in the vicinity of the subject property.
3.  The proposed amendment is consistent with the standards of any applicable overlay zone.
4.  The proposed amendment will not adversely affect adjacent property.
5.  The facilities and services intended to serve the subject property are adequate, including, but not limited to, roadways, parks and recreation facilities, police and fire protection, schools, stormwater drainage systems, water supplies, and wastewater and refuse collection.
For denial:
1.  The proposed amendment is not consistent with goals, objectives and policies of the city's general plan.
2.  The proposed amendment is not harmonious with the overall character of existing development in the vicinity of the subject property.
3.  The proposed amendment is not consistent with the standards of any applicable overlay zone.
4.  The proposed amendment will adversely affect adjacent property.
5.  The facilities and services intended to serve the subject property are not adequate, including, but not limited to, roadways, parks and recreation facilities, police and fire protection, schools, stormwater drainage systems, water supplies, and wastewater and refuse collection. ATTACHMENTS: Description Upload Date Type Ordinance 1574 12/29/2022 Ordinance PC Staff Report 12/29/2022 Backup Material