                                                     State of Utah
SPENCER J. COX                              OFFICE OF THE LIEUTENANT GOVERNOR                           DEIDRE M. HENDERSON
GOVERNOR                                            SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH                               LIEUTENANT GOVERNOR
                                                         84114-2220


                                        2024 – 2025 MASTER BALLOT POSITION LIST

In accordance with Utah Code Section 20A-6-305, Utah Lieutenant Governor Deidre M. Henderson hereby establishes
the Master Ballot Position List, establishes written procedures for election officials to use the Master Ballot Position List,
establishes written procedures for the Lieutenant Governor in conducting the randomization in a fair manner, and
provides a record of the random selection process used.

    A. Master Ballot Position List
       1      B
       2      Z
       3      C
       4      W
       5      R
       6      E
       7      N
       8      A
       9      J
       10     Y
       11     M
       12     K
       13     S
       14     G
       15     L
       16     F
       17     T
       18     X
       19     P
       20     U
       21     O
       22     V
       23     H
       24     I
       25     Q
       26     D
    B. Written procedures for election officials to use the master ballot position list.

        In accordance with Utah Code Section 20A-6-305, election officers shall use the master ballot position list for
        2024-2025 to determine the order in which to list candidates on the ballot for any election held during those
        years.

        To determine the order in which to list candidates on the ballot, the election officer shall apply the randomized
        alphabet as so:

           • The candidate’s surnames as listed on the declaration of candidacy
           • If two or more candidates have surnames that begin with the same letter, the list shall be applied to each
           subsequent letter in the candidates’ surnames as listed on the declaration of candidacy
           • If two or more candidates have an identical surname as listed on the declaration of candidacy, the list shall
           be applied to the candidates’ given (first) names as listed on the declaration of candidacy

   C. Written procedures for the Lieutenant Governor in conducting the randomization in a fair manner and record
      of the random selection process used.

        The Office of the Lieutenant Governor will conduct the randomization process by drawing wooden letter tiles
        from an opaque bag and following these procedures:

            1. A wooden tile with each letter of the alphabet printed is to be placed in an opaque bag
            2. Three individuals are to be selected to draw tiles out of the bag
            3. The order the individuals draw tiles out of the bag is selected at random by rolling the die
            4. The person rolling the highest number on the die picks first, the second highest roller picks second, and
               the lowest roller picks third
            5. Ties are broken by rolling the die until one of the individuals in the tie rolls a number that is higher than
               the other person they are tied with
            6. Letters are pulled out of the opaque bag until all tiles are removed
            7. The order the tiles were picked from the bag became the Master Ballot Position List

The randomization was done on Tuesday, January 9, 2024, at 10:00 am in the rotunda of the Utah State Capitol. Notice of
the meeting was published on the Public Notice Website and broadcast live on Zoom. A recording of the meeting can be
found on the www.vote.utah.gov website.
