                                  Development Review Committee
                                      1020 East Pioneer Road
                                        Draper, UT 84020
                                          August 6, 2024

To:              Draper City Planning Commission
                 Business Date: August 22, 2024

From:            Development Review Committee

Prepared By: Todd Taylor, Planner III
             Planning Division
             Community Development Department
             801-576-6510, todd.taylor@draperutah.gov

Re:     City Initiated 2024 Legislative Zoning Text Amendment Request
        Application No.: 2024-0304-TA
        Applicant:          Draper City
        Project Location: City Wide
        Current Zoning: City Wide
        Acreage:            City Wide
        Request:            Request for approval of a Zoning Text Amendment to sections 9-5-
                            200 and 9-27-140 of the Draper City Municipal Code (DCMC) in
                            order to address recent changes to Utah State Code related to
                            development agreements and residential rear yard setbacks.



BACKGROUND AND SUMMARY

This application is a request for approval of a Zoning Text Amendment for the purpose of
amending sections 9-5-200 and 9-27-140 of the DCMC, Title 9, to address recent changes to
Utah State Code.

The 2024 Utah State Legislative Session included House Bill (HB) 476 that, among multiple
topics, modified the provisions related to development agreements and enacted language
related to residential rear yard setback limitations. Draper City needs to amend the DCMC in
order to conform with the new State regulations.




City Initiated 2024 Legislative                                    App. No.: 2024-0304-TA
Zoning Text Amendments Request                  1
ANALYSIS

Text Amendments. This report will review the modifications being proposed. The legislative
copy of the changes can be found in Exhibit B of this report. Additions to the text are
indicated in blue, deletions in red, and unchanged text in black.

DCMC Section 9-5-200: Development Agreements: The purpose statement for development
agreements has been expanded to allow them to include terms related to certain types of
developments, annexations, affordable or moderate-income housing, public-private
partnerships, or density transfers or bonuses. Situations where the City may or may not
require a development agreement has also been added. Finally, the documents that the City
may submit to the County Recorder’s Office have been specified. Changes in the Utah State
Code related to these elements have been effective since May 1, 2024.

DCMC Section 9-27-140: Lots and Yards: Text has been added to allow uncovered landings,
balconies, and stairways to encroach up to five (5) feet into the rear or side yard setback if
they are no more than thirty-two (32) square feet in size, connect to the dwelling, and comply
with fire and building code requirements. A walkout porch has also been included in the list
of structures that may be located in a yard setback if they are less than three (3) feet in
height. Additionally, several changes were made to the text to better explain the existing
standards. Changes in the Utah State Code related to this element are set to go into effect
on November 1, 2024.



REVIEWS

Planning Division Review. The Draper City Planning Division has completed their review of
the Zoning Text Amendment submission. Comments from this division, if any, can be found
in Exhibit A.

Engineering and Public Works Divisions Review. The Draper City Engineering and Public
Works Divisions have completed their reviews of the Zoning Text Amendment submission.
Comments from these divisions, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Building Division Review. The Draper City Building Division has completed their review of
the Zoning Text Amendment submission. Comments from this division, if any, can be found
in Exhibit A.

Fire Division Review. The Draper City Fire Marshal has completed his review of the Zoning
Text Amendment submission. Comments from this division, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Legal Division Review. The Draper City Attorney has completed his review of the Zoning Text
Amendment submission. Comments from this division, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.



City Initiated 2024 Legislative                                     App. No.: 2024-0304-TA
Zoning Text Amendments Request                2
Noticing. Notice has been properly issued in the manner outlined in the City and State Codes.


STAFF RECOMMENDATION

Staff recommends that the Planning Commission review the request, receive public
comment, and make a recommendation to the City Council based on the findings and the
criteria for approval, or denial, as listed within the staff report.



MODEL MOTIONS

Sample Motion for Approval – I move that we forward a positive recommendation to the City
Council for the Zoning Text Amendment, as requested by Draper City for the City Initiated
2024 Legislative Zoning Text Amendments, Application No. 2024-0304-TA, based on the
following findings and subject to the criteria for approval listed in the Staff Report dated
August 6, 2024.

Findings for Approval:

    1. The proposed amendment is consistent with goals, objectives and policies of the
       City's General Plan;
    2. The proposed amendment is appropriate given the context of the request and there
       is sufficient justification for a modification to the development codes;
    3. The proposed amendment will not create a conflict with any other section or part of
       the development codes or the General Plan;
    4. The potential effects of the proposed amendment have been evaluated and are
       determined not to be detrimental to public health, safety, or welfare and represents
       an overall community benefit; and
    5. The proposed text amendment implements best current, professional practices of
       urban planning, design, and engineering practices.



Sample Motion for Modified Approval – I move that we forward a positive recommendation
to the City Council for the Zoning Text Amendment, as requested by Draper City for the City
Initiated 2024 Legislative Zoning Text Amendments, Application No. 2024-0304-TA, based on
the findings and criteria for approval listed in the Staff Report dated August 6, 2024, and as
modified by the following additional recommended modifications or findings:

    1. List any additional recommended modifications…
    2. List any additional findings …




City Initiated 2024 Legislative                                     App. No.: 2024-0304-TA
Zoning Text Amendments Request                3
Sample Motion for Denial – I move that we forward a negative recommendation to the City
Council for the Text Amendment, as requested by Draper City for the City Initiated 2024
Legislative Zoning Text Amendments, Application No. 2024-0304-TA, based on the following
findings and subject to the criteria for denial listed in the Staff Report dated August 6, 2024.

Findings for Denial:

    1. The proposed amendment is not consistent with goals, objectives and policies of the
       City's General Plan;
    2. The proposed amendment is not appropriate given the context of the request and
       there is not sufficient justification for a modification to the development codes;
    3. The proposed amendment could create a conflict with another section or part of the
       development codes or the General Plan;
    4. The potential effects of the proposed amendment have been determined to be
       detrimental to public health, safety, or welfare or do not represent an overall
       community benefit; and
    5. The proposed text amendment is not consistent with best current, professional
       practices of urban planning, design, and engineering practices.




City Initiated 2024 Legislative                                      App. No.: 2024-0304-TA
Zoning Text Amendments Request                 4
                                     EXHIBIT A
                                DEPARTMENT REVIEWS

REVIEWS ARE NOT MEANT TO BE AN ALL INCLUSIVE LIST OF POSSIBLE COMMENTS OR
CONDITIONS.



Planning Division Review.

   1. No additional comments received.

Engineering and Public Works Divisions Review.

   1. No additional comments received.

Building Division Review.

   1. No additional comments received.

Fire Division Review.

   1. No additional comments received.

Legal Division Review.

   1. No additional comments received.
                                        EXHIBIT B
                                    LEGISLATIVE DRAFT

9-5-200: DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENTS:
A. Purpose: A development agreement may be negotiated and executed between a developer
and the City to set forth the specific requirements, elements and any other aspects of a
development. containing any term that the City considers necessary, including a term related to:
    1. A master planned development;
    2. A planned unit development;
    3. an annexation;
    4. affordable or moderate income housing with development incentives;
    5. a public-private partnership; or
    6. a density transfer or bonus within a development project or between development
       projects.
…
D. Limitations:
…
    3. The City may require a development agreement for developing land within the City if the
       applicant has applied for a legislative or discretionary approval, including an approval
       relating to:
       a. the height of a structure;
       b. a parking or setback exception;
       c. a density transfer or bonus;
       d. a development incentive;
       e. a zone change; or
       f. an amendment to a prior development agreement.
    4. The City may not require a development agreement as a condition for developing land
       within the City if:
       a. the development otherwise complies with applicable statute and City ordinances;
       b. the development is an allowed or permitted use; or
       c. the City’s land use regulations otherwise establish all applicable standards for
           development on the land.
    5. The City may submit to the County Recorder’s office for recording:
       a. a fully executed agreement; or
       b. a document related to:
               i. code enforcement;
               ii. a special assessment area;
               iii. a local historic district boundary; or
               iv. the memorializing of enforcement of an agreed upon restriction, incentive, or
                    covenant.
   6. Subject to 9-5-200(D)(5), the City may not cause to be recorded against private real
       property a document that imposes development requirements, development
       regulations, or development controls on the property.
   3 7. To the extent that a development agreement does not specifically address a matter or
       concern related to land use or development, the matter or concern is governed by;
       a. Utah Code Annotated 10-9a-530, as amended; and
       b. Applicable land use regulations of this Title.
…
9-27-140: LOTS AND YARDS:
…
I. Yards To Be Unobstructed; Exceptions: Every part of a required yard shall be open to the sky,
unobstructed except for:
    1. Accessory buildings and structures located in a rear or side yard that comply with the
       accessory building setbacks for the zone;
    2. The ordinary projections of window bays, roof overhangs, skylights, sills, belt courses,
       cornices, chimneys, flues and other ornamental features, which shall not project into a
       required yard not more than two and one-half feet (2 1/2');
    3. Open or lattice enclosed fire escapes, fireproof outside stairways and balconies open
       upon fire towers balconies or vestibules that projecting into a required yard not more
       than five feet (5'); or
    4. Any part of an uncovered deck or, patio, or walkout porch less than three feet (3') in height,
       excluding nonopaque railings.; or
    5. Uncovered exterior landings, balconies, and stairways that comply with fire and building
       code requirements and all the following:
       a. Are located in a rear or side yard;
       b. Are no more than thirty-two (32) square feet in size;
       c. Connect to and provide for ingress to and egress from a dwelling; and
       d. Project into a required yard not more than five feet (5’).
…
