MEMO
To: City Council
From: Jennifer Jastremsky, AICP
Date: 2024-11-12
Re: Discussion: Point of the Mountain Transit Project Recommendations - Jennifer Jastremsky


Comments:


The Utah Department of Transportation and Utah Transit Authority have decided the preferred
alternative to serve the Point of the Mountain with transit is a light rail line. Because this is a large
project that will involve federal funding, studies have been conducted in conjunction with the
Federal Transit Administration to ensure compliance with Section 106 of the National Historic
Preservation Act. Section 106 requires projects to review historic resources that will be impacted by
a project and determine their eligibility and the effects of the planned project on the historic
resources. When it comes to historic preservation, eligibility refers to whether a resource has
maintained its historical integrity and if it is considered significant in regard to one or more of the
following:




  1. It is associated with events that have made a significant contribution to the broad patterns of
     our history; or
  2. It is associated with the lives of persons significant in our past; or
  3. It embodies the distinctive characteristics of a type, period, or method of construction or that
     represent the work of a master, or that possess high artistic values, or that represent a
     significant and distinguishable entity whose components may lack individual distinction; or
  4. It has yielded, or may be likely to yield, information important in prehistory or history.



The Federal Transit Administration has asked Draper City to review and provide recommendation
on their determination of eligibly and findings of effects. The study found ten historic resources
along the proposed transit line, five of which are considered eligible under criterion A listed above.
Three of these resources are canals or ditches that will not be impacted by the proposed transit line
in a way that will alter their eligibility. The two remaining resources are rail road lines. The Denver
and Rio Grande Western Railroad will not be impacted as the section of tracks that the transit line
will pass has already been altered. The last resource is the Union Pacific/ Utah Southern Railroad.
The study lists an adverse effect to this rail line. The proposed transit line will utilize the existing rail
corridor and result in the historical grade being altered through grading and fill, placement of
structures, and removal of existing historical features such as tracks to accommodate the new
transit track and station locations.
The study proposed to mitigate the adverse effect by placing an on-site plaque with onsite QR code,
directing the reader to a story map conveying information regarding the Union Pacific/ Utah
Southern Railroad.




The Utah State Historic Preservation Office reviewed the study and provided a letter to the Federal
Transit Administration dated September 13, 2024. The letter stated they concur with the study’s
findings of effect and they look forward to seeing all opportunities for mitigation to be discussed
with consulting parties.




The Draper Historical Preservation Commission reviewed this request at their October 16, 2024
meeting and forwarded a recommendation to the City Council to concur with the recommendation
provided by the Utah State Historic Preservation Office, dated September 13, 2024, as follows: The
City Council concurs with the determinations of effect for the Point of the Mountain Transit Project,
Case No. 23-1631 and looks forward to further discussions on the following mitigation option: on-
site plaque with onsite QR code, directing the reader to a story map conveying information
regarding the Union Pacific/Utah Southern Railroad.




Attached are the letter from the State Historic Preservation Office, letter from the Federal Transit
Administration, the Point of the Mountain Transit Study, and maps of the area.




ATTACHMENTS:

SHPO Concurrence.pdf
ATTACHMENTS:

FTA Letter.pdf
ATTACHMENTS:

POM Transit Study.pdf
ATTACHMENTS:

Figure 1. Preferred alternative (LRT).pdf
ATTACHMENTS:

Figure 2. Area of Potential Effect.pdf
ATTACHMENTS:
Figures 3 and 4 Historic and Cultural Resources within the APE.pdf
