                                 Development Review Committee
                                     1020 East Pioneer Road
                                        Draper, UT 84020
                                        October 11, 2024

To:               Draper City Planning Commission
                  Business Date: October 24, 2024

From:             Development Review Committee

Prepared By: Nick Whittaker, MCMP, Planner II
             Planning Division
             Community Development Department
             801-576-6522, Nick.Whittaker@draperutah.gov



Re:      Jason Smith Fence - Conditional Use Permit Request
         Application No.: 2024-0316-USE
         Applicant:        Jason Smith, representing Jason Smith & Misty Smith
         Project Location: 934 E. Crosswind Way
         Current Zoning: RA2 (Residential Agricultural, 20,000 ft² lot minimum) Zone
         Acreage:          Approximately 0.459 Acres (20,006 ft2)
         Request:          Request for approval of a Conditional Use Permit to allow for a
                           fence taller than six feet (6’) in height.



BACKGROUND AND SUMMARY

This application is a request for approval of a Conditional Use Permit for approximately 0.459
acres located on the south side of Crosswind Way at approximately 934 E. Crosswind Way.
(Exhibit B & C). The property is currently zoned RA2. The applicant is requesting that a
Conditional Use Permit be approved to allow an eight-foot (8’) tall fence to be installed in the
rear yard along the east, south and west property lines, and a seven-foot (7’) fence to be
installed in the east and west side yard areas.

The property is lot number 39 of the Corner Crossing Phase 1 Subdivision. The single-family
dwelling on the lot was built in 2004.




Jason Smith Fence                                                    App. No. 2024-0316-USE
Conditional Use Permit Request                 1
ANALYSIS

General Plan and Zoning.

 Table 1                    General Plan and Zoning Designations                  Exhibit
 Existing Land Use          Residential Low-Medium Density                        Exhibit D
 Current Zoning             RA2                                                   Exhibit E
 Existing Use               Single Family Residential
 Adjacent Zoning
    East                    RA2
    West                    RA2
    North                   RA2
    South                   RA2

The Residential Low-Medium Density land use designation is characterized as follows:




Jason Smith Fence                                                  App. No. 2024-0316-USE
Conditional Use Permit Request                   2
According to Draper City Municipal Code (DCMC) Section 9-8-020: “The purpose of the RA1
and RA2 zones is to foster low density development with little impact on its surroundings
and municipal services; to generally preserve the character of the city's semirural areas; and
to promote and preserve conditions favorable to large lot family life, including the keeping
of limited numbers of animals and fowl. The predominant use in these zones is intended to
be detached single-family dwellings, protected from encroachment by commercial and
industrial uses.

Fencing. The site plan (Exhibit F) shows the locations of the existing fencing proposed to be
replaced along the side and rear yards. The applicant desires to install new fencing of
varying heights between 6’ and 8’ along the side and rear property lines to account for the
grade changes that occur across the rear yard areas of the home.

The applicant’s property has multiple areas near the property lines where there are gradual
and abrupt changes in grade. The areas most affected by the change in grade are found
along the east, west and south property lines (Exhibits G & H). In these affected areas the
change in grade reduces the visual height of the existing six-foot (6’) fencing by as much as
two feet (2’) which leaves only four-feet (4’) of visual fence height which does not provide the
same level of privacy as a permitted six-foot (6’) fence does.

Table 2   Fencing and Design Requirements
 Standard DCMC             Proposal                             Notes
           Requirements
 Height
    Front 4’ maximum       None                                 There is no existing or
                                                                proposed fencing in the
                                                                front yard
     Rear       6’ maximum       Replace an existing 6’ fence
                                 with a fence that varies
                                 between 6’ and 8’ tall.
     East       6’ maximum       Replace an existing 6’ fence
     Side                        with a fence that varies
                                 between 6’ and 8’ tall.
     West       6’ maximum       Replace an existing 6’ fence
     Side                        with a fence that varies
                                 between 6’ and an 8’ tall.

Subsection 9-27-080(A)(2) in the DCMC states:

    When located behind the front wall plane a fence, wall, or other visual obstruction, not
    including trees, shall not exceed six feet (6') in height unless a greater height is allowed
    by a conditional use permit or as otherwise permitted in this title.




Jason Smith Fence                                                    App. No. 2024-0316-USE
Conditional Use Permit Request                   3
The applicant is requesting a fence height that is greater than six-feet (6’) which requires the
applicant to seek a conditional use permit.

Criteria For Approval.
The criteria for review and potential approval of a conditional use permit request are found
in Section 9-5-080(E) of the DCMC. This section depicts the standard of review for such
requests as:

    E. Approval Standards: The standards of this subsection shall apply to the issuance of a
       conditional use permit:
       1. A conditional use permit may be issued for a use to be located within a zone where
          the particular conditional use is allowed by the use regulations of the zone.
       2. Reasonable conditions may be imposed as necessary to substantially mitigate
          reasonably anticipated detrimental effects of the proposed use. These conditions
          may include conditions concerning use, construction, character, location,
          landscaping, screening, parking, hours of operation, and other matters relating to
          the purposes and objectives of this section. Such conditions shall be expressly set
          forth in the motion authorizing the conditional use permit.
       3. If the reasonably anticipated detrimental effects of a proposed conditional use
          cannot be substantially mitigated by the imposition of reasonable conditions to
          achieve compliance with applicable standards, the conditional use may be denied.
       4. The following factors shall be reviewed and considered in determining whether a
          conditional use permit application should be approved, approved with conditions,
          or denied because reasonable conditions cannot be imposed to achieve
          compliance with applicable standards:
          a. The harmony and compliance of the proposed use with the objectives and
              requirements of the city's general plan and this title;
          b. The suitability of the specific property for the proposed use;
          c. Whether the proposed use or facility may be injurious to potential or existing
              development in the vicinity;
          d. The economic impact of the proposed facility or use on the surrounding area;
          e. The aesthetic impact of the proposed facility or use on the surrounding area;
          f. The safeguards proposed or provided to ensure adequate utilities,
              transportation access, drainage, parking, loading space, lighting, screening,
              landscaping, open space, fire protection, and pedestrian and vehicular
              circulation;
          g. The safeguards provided or proposed to prevent noxious or offensive
              emissions such as noise, glare, dust, pollutants and odor from the proposed
              facility or use; and
          h. The impact of the proposed facility or use on the health, safety, and welfare of
              the city, the area, and persons owning or leasing property in the area.




Jason Smith Fence                                                    App. No. 2024-0316-USE
Conditional Use Permit Request                 4
         5. The planning commission may request additional information as may be
            reasonably needed to determine whether the requirements of this subsection E
            can be met.

Staff has reviewed the application materials provided by the applicant (Exhibit F & G) and the
responses to the conditional use criteria listed in Section 9-5-080(E) of the DCMC. Applicant
and staff responses are as follows:

The applicant indicates (Exhibit G) in response to DCMC Subsection 9-5-080(E)(4)(a) their
belief that their proposed fence is in harmony with the Draper City General Plan in that it
would create an unsurpassed quality of life for him and his neighbors and will help provide
a living and leisure environment that is more visually and aesthetically appealing for the
community and the applicant’s neighborhood. The applicant appears to reference portions
of two (2) of the land use and character values found in Chapter 2 of the 2019 Draper City
General Plan. The actual values as stated in the General Plan are:

    •    Ensure a rich variety of living, working, and leisure environments that visually,
         aesthetically and economically complement one another.
    •    Create an unsurpassed quality of life.

Staff notes that the closest objective or goal in the General Plan that would align with the
values alluded to is Goal LUC-1 which states: “Enhance Draper’s identity as a community with
a high quality of life, a diverse economic base, and a rich mixture of housing and leisure
opportunities”.

The applicant indicates in their responses to DCMC Subsection 9-5-080(E)(4)(b), that grade
changes between neighboring lots that reduce the effect of the standard six-foot (6’) fence
make the subject property suitable for consideration of a taller fence (Exhibit G). Staff
concurs with the applicant’s assertion that the slope of the property does lessen the privacy
that a six-foot (6’) fence might otherwise afford a property with less variation in slope.

The applicant indicates in their responses to DCMC Subsection 9-5-080(E)(4)(c) that the
proposed use will not be injurious to potential or existing development in the vicinity (Exhibit
G). Staff agrees with this assessment by the applicant.

The applicant indicates in their responses to DCMC Subsection 9-5-080(E)(4)(d), that there
will be no economic impact on any parties and that the full cost of the fence will be paid by
the applicant (Exhibit G). Staff agrees that approval of the proposed fence will not create an
economic impact for the subject the area.

The applicant indicates in their responses to DCMC Subsection 9-5-080(E)(4)(e), that the
proposed conditional use would significantly enhance the aesthetics of his home and that of
his neighbors and that a new fence will be a beautiful update (Exhibit G). Staff recognizes



Jason Smith Fence                                                    App. No. 2024-0316-USE
Conditional Use Permit Request                 5
the potential aesthetic impact of the proposed fence is minimal but that the submitted
documentation contains insufficient information to determine whether a net positive or
negative impact would be created with respect to adjacent properties and the surrounding
area.

The applicant indicates in their responses to DCMC Subsection 9-5-080(E)(4)(f), that they will
be installing the new fence in the same location as the old fence and that this will serve as a
safeguard to ensure that none of the factors of utilities, transportation access, drainage,
parking, loading space, lighting, screening, landscaping, open space, fire protection, and
pedestrian and vehicular circulation would be negatively impacted (Exhibit G). Staff notes
that the proposed fence will have limited to no impact on the factors listed in the ordinance
criterion. Impacts to screening if negative at all are negligible. The impacts to fire protection
from a switch to Trex Composite fencing from vinyl fencing does include an increased
likelihood of fire spread, however many other factors are involved.

The applicant indicates in their responses to DCMC Subsection 9-5-080(E)(4)(g), that new
fence will not produce any noise, glare, dust, pollutants or odor (Exhibit G). Staff agrees with
this statement.

The applicant indicates in their responses to DCMC Subsection 9-5-080(E)(4)(h), that having
a taller, more aesthetically appealing fence will enhance the health, safety, and welfare of
those impacted (Exhibit G). Also, the applicant indicated that the taller fence will provide an
enhanced barrier against intruders and additional privacy which will enhance their quality of
life. Staff recognizes the desire of the applicant to create visual continuity in the height of the
fence, and to increase privacy between adjoining neighbors where the slope of the property
may impact that privacy.

Staff does not believe that additional mitigations are necessary beyond those proposed for
the purpose of creating visual continuity in the height of the fence. Staff recommends that
as a condition of approval that the fencing be limited to the locations and construction
proposed in the submitted application materials. A recommended condition to this effect
has also been included in the recommendations section of this report.



REVIEWS

Planning Division Review. The Draper City Planning Division has completed their review of
the Conditional Use Permit submission. Comments from this division, if any, can be found in
Exhibit A.

Engineering and Public Works Divisions Review. The Draper City Engineering and Public
Works Divisions have completed their reviews of the Conditional Use Permit submission.
Comments from these divisions, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.



Jason Smith Fence                                                      App. No. 2024-0316-USE
Conditional Use Permit Request                  6
Building Division Review. The Draper City Building Division has completed their review of the
Conditional Use Permit submission. Comments from this division, if any, can be found in
Exhibit A.

Fire Division Review. The Draper City Fire Marshal has completed his review of the
Conditional Use Permit submission. Comments from this division, if any, can be found in
Exhibit A.

Noticing. Notice has been properly issued in the manner outlined in the City and State Codes.


STAFF RECOMMENDATION

Staff recommends that the Planning Commission review the request, receive public
comment, and approve the Conditional Use Permit based on the findings for approval and
the criteria for approval as listed within this staff report.

If the Planning Commission decides to approve the request, staff recommends they include
the following conditions of approval:

    1. That all requirements of the Draper City Engineering, Building and Planning Divisions
       are satisfied throughout the construction of the fence, including permitting.
    2. That the new replacement fencing shall not exceed eight feet (8’) in height and shall
       be constructed only in the locations indicated on the approved site plan.
    3. That the applicant or their contractor obtain a building permit for the installation of
       the new fencing.



MODEL MOTIONS AND FINDINGS

Sample Motion for Approval – I move that we approve the Conditional Use Permit, as
requested by Jason Smith, Application 2024-0316-USE, based on the following findings for
approval and subject to the conditions listed in the staff report dated October 11, 2024.

Findings for approval:

    1. Reasonable mitigation measures are placed on the conditional use to alleviate
       anticipated detrimental effects.

Sample Motion for Modified Approval – I move that we approve the Conditional Use Permit,
as requested by Jason Smith, Application 2024-0316-USE, based on the findings for approval




Jason Smith Fence                                                  App. No. 2024-0316-USE
Conditional Use Permit Request                7
and conditions listed in the staff report dated October 11, 2024, including the following
additional findings or conditions:

    1. List any additional findings…
    2. List any additional conditions…

Sample Motion for Denial – I move that we deny the Conditional Use Permit, as requested
by Jason Smith, Application 2024-0316-USE, based on the following findings for denial:

Findings for denial:

    1. Reasonable mitigation measures are not able to be placed on the conditional use to
       sufficiently alleviate anticipated detrimental effects.




Jason Smith Fence                                                App. No. 2024-0316-USE
Conditional Use Permit Request               8
                                     EXHIBIT A
                                DEPARTMENT REVIEWS

REVIEWS ARE NOT MEANT TO BE AN ALL-INCLUSIVE LIST OF POSSIBLE COMMENTS OR
CONDITIONS.



Planning Division Review.

       1. No additional comments provided.

Engineering and Public Works Divisions Review.

       1. No additional comments provided.

Building Division Review.

       1.     No additional comments provided.

Fire Division Review.

       1.     No additional comments provided.
  EXHIBIT B
VICINITY MAP
 EXHIBIT C
AERIAL MAP
  EXHIBIT D
LAND USE MAP
 EXHIBIT E
ZONING MAP
EXHIBIT F
SITE PLAN
                                                                             123’


         7’ TREX FENCING (PROPOSED)

         8’ TREX FENCING (PROPOSED)

         PROPERTY BOUNDARY


ALL IMPROVEMENTS SHOWN ON SITE PLAN ARE
EXISTING OR UNDER CONSTRUCTION




                                                                                                                          Parcel 2832378021




                                                                                                                                                       Conditional Use Permit - Fencing
                                                                                                                      Sage and Kimberley Harmsen
                                                                                                                         952 E Crosswind Way



         Parcel 2832378019                       12’                                                      18’
      Derek and Jessica Pearson
        918 E Crosswind Way
                                                             FUTURE                                                   PLAY GROUND
                                                             CONCRETE

                                                       10’




                                                                                                                96’
                                                                                                                                              August 23, 2024
                                                                                                                                              Applicant:
                                                                                                                                              Jason and Misty Smith


                                                                                                                      POOL HOUSE




                                                                                      EXISTING FENCE TO
                       Parcel 2832378006                                                REMAIN IN THIS
                   Kade and Brittany Wadsworth                                             SECTION
                    13364 S Canyon Springs Cir                         Parcel 2832378007
                                                                         Janice Spencer
                                                                    13363 S Canyon Springs Cir
      EXHIBIT G
APPLICANT STATEMENTS
OVERVIEW OF PROPOSED USE
Jason and Misty Smith, CUP Application
934 E Crosswind Way Draper, Utah

We are proposing the installation of a new fence at our home. The fence would be 8’ tall along the full
length of the east and west boundaries to enhance privacy. Due to the layout and elevation of the
homes along our street, the privacy of our backyard is most impacted by the neighboring properties to
the east and west. We would also install an 8’ fence along a portion of the southern boundary where
we have constructed a new pickle ball court. This will help keep pickle balls from leaving our property
and we feel it is much more aesthetic than constructing a large net or black chain link fence on our
property. We do not plan on installing a new fence on the remainder of the southern boundary at this
time. Our property in that section borders the home of an elderly widow who we absolutely love. We
share a gate in the current fence and frequently go back and forth to visit. We want to maintain that
quick access to visit her. For the areas on the northern portion of the backyard where the fence returns
to the house (i.e. the street facing portions of the fence), we plan on installing a 7’ fence. We feel that
from the street, a 7’ fence will look nicer than an 8’ fence.

The fence product we would like to install is a Trex fence. We have chosen this product because we feel
it is more aesthetically pleasing than vinyl and it is much stronger. We appreciate the natural
appearance that a Trex fence provides. Trex is a well known brand for composite fencing and has a solid
reputation. We would like to install the Seclusions model of fence (vertical pickets) in the Woodland
Brown color.

Our contractor is Stonehenge Fence based out of Orem, Utah. They have a good reputation and good
reviews. They are aware of all proper installation instructions required by Trex and will install the
footings and fence in accordance with best practices and first-class workmanship.

I have discussed installation of a new fence with all my neighbors. As I am proposing the change in
fencing, I have offered to pay for the fence in full. My neighbors have all been great and have expressed
support for the new fence. They appreciate upgrading to a Trex fence from the current vinyl and the
added privacy that the higher fence will provide.
Thank you for your consideration.

STATEMENT OF VARRIANCE APPLICABILITY
Jason and Misty Smith, CUP Application
934 E Crosswind Way Draper, Utah
We do not require a variance in connection with the proposed conditional use for an 8’ fence.

STATEMENT OF COMPLIANCE WITH STANDARDS
Jason and Misty Smith, CUP Application
934 E Crosswind Way Draper, Utah
The conditional use permit for fence height allows for fences up to 10’ tall. Our proposed fence is 8’ tall
in most areas, with a 7’ proposed fence for portions of the fence that are street facing. As our proposed
fence is under 10’ tall, it falls within the standards of the conditional use.
Please explain how you will meet the standards listed below. If it does not apply
explain why (N/A is not a valid response).
9-5-080(E:4) CONDITIONAL USE PERMITS
The following factors shall be reviewed and considered in determining whether a
conditional use permit application should be approved, approved with conditions, or
denied because reasonable conditions cannot be imposed to achieve compliance with
applicable standards:
a. The harmony and compliance of the proposed use with the objectives and
requirements of the city's general plan and this title;
   •   Granting this conditional use permit will help provide a living and leisure
       environment that is more visually and aesthetically appealing for our community
       and my neighborhood, as desired per the city’s general plan. The Trex fence
       that I will install will be much more visually appealing then the old vinyl fence that
       is currently in place. It has natural looking wood grain and a deeper earth tone
       than the current fence. Additionally, granting this conditional use will help with
       the city’s objective to provide an unsurpassed quality of life for me and my
       neighbors. The grade change between our yards does not allow for sufficient
       privacy. A taller fence will provide us with enhanced privacy and solitude, thus
       increasing the quality of life for me and my neighbors.
b. The suitability of the specific property for the proposed use;
   •   My property is perfectly suited for a taller fence in accordance with the
       conditional use due to grade changes between neighboring lots that reduces the
       effect of the standard 6 foot fence. It is also well suited for the proposed use
       because the wood grained, earthen tone of the Trex fence to be installed will
       integrate beautifully with the theme and colors of homes in the neighborhood.
c. Whether the proposed use or facility may be injurious to potential or existing
development in the vicinity;
   •   The proposed use will not be injurious to potential or existing development. On
       the contrary, it will benefit the existing development as it will enhance privacy for
       all neighbors, thus enhancing quality of life, while at the same time providing a
       more aesthetically appealing fencing option.
d. The economic impact of the proposed facility or use on the surrounding area;
   •   There will be no economic impact on any parties. I have volunteered to pay the
       full cost of the fence, thus removing any economic burden from my neighbors.
e. The aesthetic impact of the proposed facility or use on the surrounding area;
   •   Granting the proposed conditional use will significantly enhance the aesthetics of
       my home and that of my neighbors. With wood grain and beautiful earth tones,
       the new fence will look more natural than the current vinyl fence. Additionally, the
       current fence has been installed for over 20 years and has stains and damage in
       some areas. A new fence will be a beautiful update.
f. The safeguards proposed or provided to ensure adequate utilities, transportation
access, drainage, parking, loading space, lighting, screening, landscaping, open space,
fire protection, and pedestrian and vehicular circulation;
   •   We will be installing the new fence in the same location as the old fence. This
       will serve as a safeguard to ensure that none of these factors are negatively
       impacted.
g. The safeguards provided or proposed to prevent noxious or offensive emissions
such as noise, glare, dust, pollutants and odor from the proposed facility or use;
   •   Once installed, the new fence will not produce any noise, glare, dust, pollutants
       or odor. The removal of the old fence and placement of the new one will involve
       some construction that could be a frustration. The construction timing will take
       about a week. I will ensure that any damage to any property is promptly repaired
       and restored.
h. The impact of the proposed facility or use on the health, safety, and welfare of the
city, the area, and persons owning or leasing property in the area.
   •   A taller, more aesthetically appealing fence will enhance the health, safety, and
       welfare of those impacted. Taller fences are safer and provide an enhanced
       barrier against intruders. The additional privacy will enhance quality of life which
       benefits emotional well-being. A higher end Trex fence will also help preserve
       property values as it is known to be of higher quality than standard vinyl.
