MEMO
To: City Council
From: Travis DeJong.
Date: 2024-08-06
Re: Public Hearing: Providing Local Consent for a Full-Service Restaurant License for
Maha's Kitchen LLC dba Aroma Fine Indian Cuisine.


Comments:

Maha's Kitchen LLC dba Aroma Fine Indian Cuisine located at 715 E 12300 S Suite H is
seeking Local Consent for a Full-Service Restaurant license. They have provided the
following:

- Liquor liability insurance.
- Bond payable to the Department of Alcoholic Beverage Services.
- Floor map showing where alcohol is to be served, stored, and consumed.
- Sales tax license.
- A background check conducted by the Bureau of Criminal Identification.

Maha's Kitchen LLC dba Aroma Fine Indian Cuisine also holds a current commercial
business license, numbered CBL-0768-2024, set to expire on 3-31-2025.



The findings for Local Consent approval are as follows:

DCMC 6-4-040 requires that a full-service restaurant be at least three hundred feet (300')
away from any community location (schools, churches, public libraries, public
playgrounds, and public parks) measured by the shortest pedestrian route taken from
the nearest patron entrance of the restaurant to the property boundary of the
community location.

Maha's Kitchen LLC dba Aroma Fine Indian Cuisine has met this requirement.

DCMC 6-4-040 requires that a full-service restaurant be at least two hundred feet (200')
away from any community location (schools, churches, public libraries, public
playgrounds, and public parks) measured in a straight line from the nearest patron
entrance of the restaurant to the property boundary of the community location.

Maha's Kitchen LLC dba Aroma Fine Indian Cuisine has met this requirement.
DCMC 6-4-050 places no restrictions on the number of full-service restaurant licenses
that can be granted by the City.


ATTACHMENTS:

Business License.docx
ATTACHMENTS:

Bond .pdf
ATTACHMENTS:

Floor Plan.png
ATTACHMENTS:

Liquor Liability Insurance.pdf
ATTACHMENTS:

Sales Tax License.PDF
ATTACHMENTS:

Maha's Kitchen Local Consent PP.pptx
