Maryann Pickering

From:                                   Jan Sharp <jansharp45@gmail.com>
Sent:                                   Tuesday, July 23, 2024 9:15 AM
To:                                     Maryann Pickering
Cc:                                     Jan Sharp
Subject:                                [EXT] Re: rezoning from RA1 single family agricultural to RA2. 40,000 down to 20,000
                                        square feet minimum per request of Sai Dandubuyina. Application 2024-0220-MA


[EXTERNAL SENDER! Only open attachments/links you know are safe.]

My husband and I, Garry and Jan Sharp live at 11471 S 700 W, Draper, UT 84020, 2 properties north of this proposed zone change. We
bought this property and built our house in 1995 for the express reason to have horses. This subdivision by Sue Allen was designed
approximately 110 feet wide at 7th west extending down across Willow Creek creating 2 to 1 1/5 acre lots for people wanting large animals.
There are currently 4 properties surrounding Sai's property that have horses and mules alpacas and sheep.
  Rezoning and adding more than one house would change the nature and purpose of this subdivision which is very rural. People moving in
without knowledge or love of large animals tend to start complaining of dust, flies, smells and animal noises.
  This would also set a president for other lots to be subdivided in the future eventually pushing out large animals. Draper is becoming a
bedroom community for Salt Lake City and it's rural pioneer heritage is being erased by rezoning. Does the planning commission and city
council care about the horse community in this section of Draper? We ask that you protect our rural setting and that you deny approval of
the application for zone change #2024-0220-MA by Sai Danduboyina.

  This was my initial letter to the planning committee. The planning committee denied the application. I hope you will too. I have had more
thoughts since the planning meeting.
 When Sai first approached Draper Ciry about this property he wanted to put 4 houses on it. This was denied. He told us neighbors he
wanted to move here. Asking for 4 houses is a developer move rather than someone who wants to live in our neighborhood. This makes me
concerned about the reasons Sai said he bought this property.
 1. He told me and neighbors that he wanted a second house on the property as a legacy for his kids and for them to move into when they
were grown. His son and daughter are young and in elementary school at best. If Sai has to put in a road I think they said 28' wide so he can
build 2 homes I question how he will finance this until his kids are grown. Is he planning on paying insurance, mortgage and property taxes
on 2 homes until they are grown? I don't think so. I am doubtful he really intends to move here. They have a lovely home 3.3 miles from
here.
 2. He also told me and neighbors that he wanted to move here to be closer to Juan Diego for his kids to go there. In my view 3.3 miles isn't
significantly closer.
 3. He told the planning committee he wanted to move here to be closer to stores....again only 3.3 miles closer.
   Another of my concerns is that this property has water shares through West Crescent Irrigation. We flood Irrigate. By putting 2 houses
and a road, this will make it very difficult if not impossible to utilize this valuable neighborhood resource.
  I again reiterate this is a section of Draper that still retains some rural feel. Many neighbors have large animals...at least 9 properties on
both sides of 7th west with horses. This property was designed and zoned for this purpose. Please deny this application as the planning
committee did and have it remain AR1.

 Sincerely. Jan and Garry Sharp




                                                                       1
Maryann Pickering

From:                                Bob Rohr <bob.rohr@caleffi.com>
Sent:                                Monday, July 29, 2024 9:49 AM
To:                                  Maryann Pickering
Subject:                             [EXT] Zoning changes


[EXTERNAL SENDER! Only open attachments/links you know are safe.]

Draper City
Re
#2024-0220MA Sai Dasnduboyina
Request for rezone

My wife and I moved I to this neighborhood 763W 11560S about 3 years ago. We purchased the property specifically for the
size of the lot and surrounding lots, approximately 2 acres. This neighborhood is one of few that still retains the country feel
and charm.An island in an area of high density zoning and building.

We appreciate that Draper City protected these 2 acre horse properties over the years.
It seem disingenuous that the property in question would be rezoned in to smaller lots for the sake of one person? So the
entire neighborhood takes a hit for one lot rezone?

There are plenty of properties available for multifamily buildings in the area, the lot in question is narrow and deep, not at all
conducive to splitting into two lots.
I hope the planning and zoning committees take into account all the neighbors in this decision not just a singe newbie
developer. I believe when the lot was purchased it was listed as a single residence lot. Please leave it as such.
Thank you
Bob Rohr




                                                                 1
Maryann Pickering

From:                           Rick Taylor <rttay50@gmail.com>
Sent:                           Wednesday, June 12, 2024 5:39 PM
To:                             Maryann Pickering; Planning; Community Development; * Recorder; BrynHeather
                                Johnson; Cal Roberts; Fred Lowry; Mike Green; Tasha Lowery
Cc:                             Jan Sharp; Jennifer O'Neal; Rick Taylor
Subject:                        [EXT] ZONE CHANGE APPLICATION


[EXTERNAL SENDER! Only open attachments/links you know are safe.]

To the Draper City Council and Planning Committee,
Hello I am Rick Taylor, Draper City resident residing at 11443 S. 700 W. Draper, Utah 84020. I bought this
property and built the home in 1995 and have been involved in many planning and zoning meetings since
then, including two to help target and design long term community zone planning... specifically with input and
guidance from the residents that live here in this north west corner of Draper City.
Three decades ago I was told the long term goal for this area was rural atmosphere and yes, my keeping and
using horses and other large animals would coincide nicely with the current use and zoning intent. Since then
there have been some 10 or 12 contradictory zone changes allowed, including the biggest debacle in my
opinion - approving Soccer city aka sport city and apartment buildings that have yet to be built on what used
to be agricultural land. That one changed my immediate surroundings into not just suburban, but more like a
metropolitan character of community. Crime, traffic, air pollution and noise pollution increased dramatically!
You can check with all the first responders if you doubt my data. I point this out in effort to inform you of just
how detrimental the decisions you make can be to not just one resident, but a community of neighbors who
loved the area enough to spend their life savings to build or buy their dream homes in a rural atmosphere that
was present and implied if not promised by previous city councils and planners. I ask that you recognize,
respect, and have the integrity to uphold those communally developed and approved zoning guidelines?
It is my opinion and I share it with many of my neighbors that if you want smaller lots, there are many
subdivisions already approved and being developed to build or buy into. In this rural neighborhood, we own
horses, cows, lamas, alpacas, sheep and a few other "large" animals that you cannot legally own and raise on
smaller lots. When you as a governing body allow 1 new resident to change our zoning, a problematic social
divide is born. Whether the new property owners want smaller yards with less maintenance, or see the
lucrative possibility of subdividing, the interest of one new property owner should not supersede that of all the
residing neighbors that have helped shape their community atmosphere for decades! People that own large
animals are used to the smell, dust, flies and challenges of keeping them safely on their property - that
Residential Agricultural zoning allows and condones. Persons interested in smaller lots are typically not and
may complain of the said incidentals of this lifestyle.
I presume you have visited the lot, looked at the plat map, and identified the numerous challenges of utilities,
the easement of access needed, as well as fire & utility maintenance access restrictions, but I would
encourage you to recognize the characteristic divide being proposed by the subdividing this lot amidst all the
other lots presently abiding and enjoying the current zoning law.
I ask that you deny approval of the application for zone change # 2024-020-MA by Sai
Danduboyina item # 2f on the agenda

Respectfully, ~Rick Taylor~




                                                        1
Maryann Pickering

From:                             Jan Sharp <jansharp45@gmail.com>
Sent:                             Thursday, June 13, 2024 8:41 AM
To:                               Maryann Pickering; Jan Sharp; Irr Rick Taylor; Irr Jen O'Neal; Garry Sharp
Subject:                          [EXT] ReZoning proposal from RA1 single family residential to RA2 40,000 sq ft lots
                                  down to 20,000 square ft lots by Sai Danduboyina.


[EXTERNAL SENDER! Only open attachments/links you know are safe.]

  My husband and I, Garry and Jan Sharp live at 11471 S 700 W, Draper, UT 84020, 2 properties north of this proposed
zone change. We bought this property and built our house in 1995 for the express reason to have horses. This
subdivision by Sue Allen was designed approximately 110 feet wide at 7th west extending down across Willow Creek
creating 2 to 1 1/5 acre lots for people wanting large animals. There are currently 4 properties surrounding Sai's
property that have horses and mules alpacas and sheep.
  Rezoning and adding more than one house would change the nature and purpose of this subdivision which is
very rural. People moving in without knowledge or love of large animals tend to start complaining of dust, flies, smells
and animal noises.
  This would also set a president for other lots to be subdivided in the future eventually pushing out large animals.
Draper is becoming a bedroom community for Salt Lake City and it's rural pioneer heritage is being erased by rezoning.
Does the planning commission and city council care about the horse community in this section of Draper? We ask that
you protect our rural setting and that you deny approval of the application for zone change #2024-0220-MA by Sai
Danduboyina




                                                            1
