                                  Development Review Committee
                                      1020 East Pioneer Road
                                        Draper, UT 84020
                                            September 27, 2024

To:              Draper City Planning Commission
                 Business Date: October 10, 2024

From:            Development Review Committee

Prepared By: Nick Whittaker, MCMP, Planner II
             Planning Division
             Community Development Department
             801-576-6522, Nick.Whittaker@draperutah.gov

Re:     Paul Nagi Custom Designs LLC. Home Occupation – Conditional Use Permit Request
        Application No.: 2024-0286-USE
        Applicant:        Paul Nagi, representing Paul Nagi Custom Designs LLC.
        Project Location: 266 E. Bellis Ct.
        Current Zoning: RM2 (Multiple-family residential)
        Acreage:          Approximately 0.10 acres (approximately 4,356 ft2)
        Request:          Request for approval of a Conditional Use Permit to operate a
                          home occupation that provides measurements for custom-made
                          clothing and provides alterations.

BACKGROUND AND SUMMARY

This application is a request for approval of a Conditional Use Permit to operate a home
occupation on approximately 0.10 acres located on the south side of Bellis Ct. at
approximately 266 E. Bellis Ct. (Exhibits B and C). The property is currently zoned RM2. The
personal care service home occupation provides measurements for custom-made clothing
and provides alterations.

The property is Lot 120 of the Rockwell Park Subdivision. The home was constructed in
2020. The business is operated from a room located in the basement of the home (Exhibit
F).




Paul Nagi Custom Designs, LLC Home Occupation                      App. # 2024-0286-USE
Conditional Use Permit Request                      1
ANALYSIS

General Plan and Zoning.
 Table 1                   General Plan and Zoning Designations                          Exhibit
 Existing Land Use         Residential High Density                                      D
 Current Zoning            RM2 (Multiple-Family Residential)                             E
 Proposed Use              Home occupation
 Adjacent Zoning           RM2
    East                   RM2
    West                   RM2
    North                  RM2
    South                  RA1 (Residential Agricultural, 40,000 ft2 min. lot size)

The Residential High Density land use designation is characterized as follows:




According to Draper City Municipal Code (DCMC) Section 9-8-020(B)(5), the purpose of the
RM2 zone is to, “permit well designed apartments, townhomes, twin homes, and
condominiums at relatively high densities that are appropriately buffered from and
compatible with surrounding land uses.”

Site Plan Layout. The applicant has provided a site plan of the property (Exhibit F) and a



Paul Nagi Custom Designs, LLC Home Occupation                              App. # 2024-0286-USE
Conditional Use Permit Request                     2
schematic floor plan for the business (Exhibit G). With the exception of the customer
parking area as shown on the site plan, no yard areas are utilized as part of business
operations. No changes to the exterior of the home are proposed. The business workspace
is located on the basement floor in a room which is approximately 224 ft² in size. The total
square footage of the home is approximately 3,320 ft². The percentage of floor space used
for the home occupation is approximately 7% of the overall home size.

Parking. One (1) off-street parking stall is provided for customers coming to the property as
shown on the included site plan provided by the applicant (Exhibit F) and is further detailed
in the photos provided by the applicant (Exhibit I). The stall is located on the east side of
the existing driveway and directly in front of the attached 2-car garage.

Home Occupation. The DCMC Section 9-34-040 outlines development standards applicable
to all home occupations. Those criteria, along with information specific to the subject
request, are as follows:

        A. Ownership: The home occupation shall be owned and operated by a person who
             resides in the dwelling where the home occupation is located. Such person shall
             be the primary provider of the labor, work, or service provided in the home
             occupation.
             •   The applicant lives at the subject property where he also operates his home
                 occupation

        B. Business License: A business license for the home occupation shall be obtained
           from and continually maintained with the city pursuant to title 6, chapter 11 of
           this code.
           • The applicant will be required to maintain an active business license for as
               long as the business is in operation from the residence. The applicant has
               indicated their intent to comply (Exhibit H)

        C. Employees: Members of the family of the owner who reside in the dwelling may
             be employed in the home occupation. Nonfamily or nonresident employees
             shall be limited to one person.
             •   The applicant has indicated that he is the only employee of the business
                 (Exhibit H).

        D. Inspection: All facilities shall comply with fire, building, plumbing, electrical and
             all other city, county, state and federal codes. Inspections during reasonable
             hours by city officials may occur as necessary to assure compliance with
             regulations.
             •   Necessary inspections will occur as part of the business licensing process.
                 The applicant has indicated their intent to comply with applicable codes and
                 inspections as required (Exhibit H).



Paul Nagi Custom Designs, LLC Home Occupation                           App. # 2024-0286-USE
Conditional Use Permit Request                  3
        E. Inventory: No stock in trade, inventory, or other merchandise to exceed two
             hundred fifty (250) square feet shall be kept on the premises. No outside storage
             is allowed.
             •   The applicant has indicated that all inventory is kept in the basement office
                 as shown on the floor plans found in Exhibit G. This space is less than the
                 250 ft² permitted in ordinance. There is no outdoor storage.

        F. Modification Of Structures Or Yards: There shall be no visible evidence from the
             exterior of a dwelling that it is being used for any other purpose than that of a
             dwelling. No activities shall be carried on outside the dwelling in the yard for the
             benefit of or incidental to the home occupation. No front yard area shall be
             altered to provide parking required for a home occupation.
             •   No modifications to the structure or yard areas are being proposed. All
                 activities are conducted inside the dwelling. The parking area designated for
                 customers already exists.

        G. Nuisance: Tools, items, equipment, or activities conducted within the dwelling
             which is offensive or noxious by reason of the emission of odor, smoke, gas,
             vibration, magnetic interference, or noise shall be prohibited.
             •   The applicant has indicated that there is no equipment used which creates
                 any nuisance and work is only conducted from 11:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m.
                 (Exhibit H)

        H. Secondary Use: The home occupation shall be clearly incidental and secondary
             to the primary use of the dwelling for residential purposes. The home
             occupation shall not disrupt the normal residential character of the
             neighborhood in which the residence is located. Not more than twenty five
             percent (25%) of the dwelling unit shall be used for the home occupation.
             •   The business workspace is located on the basement floor in a room which is
                 approximately 224 ft² in size (Exhibit G). The total square footage of the
                 subject property floor space is 3,320 ft². The percentage of floor space
                 square footage used for the home occupation is 7%

        J.   Signs: All signage in a residential area must comply with chapter 26, “Signs”, of
             this title.
             •   The applicant indicates that there is no business signage on the property and
                 none is proposed at this time (Exhibit H).

        J.   Traffic, Parking, And Access: No home occupation use shall generate pedestrian,
             parking, or vehicular traffic in excess of that customarily associated with the
             zone in which the use is located. All parking shall be provided and maintained on
             site with adequate provision for drop off traffic.



Paul Nagi Custom Designs, LLC Home Occupation                           App. # 2024-0286-USE
Conditional Use Permit Request                   4
             •   There will be no walk-in customers.
             •   When measurements are needed, in person appointments are scheduled in
                 advance online. Appointments are scheduled for individual slots of time on
                 Monday through Friday between the hours of 11:00 a.m. and 6:00 p.m. as
                 needed. (Exhibit H).
             •   Off-street parking is provided for scheduled appointments. Parking is located
                 on the east side of the existing driveway. (Exhibits F & H).

        K. Vehicles: Other than the business owner's personal transportation, there shall
             be no vehicles or equipment on the property associated with the home
             occupation which would not normally be found at a residence. No signage for
             the home occupation shall be allowed on vehicles.
             •   The applicant indicates that the home occupation does not include the use of
                 a business vehicle (Exhibit H).

        L. Yards: Yards surrounding the dwelling and accessory buildings shall not be used
             for any activities or storage of any materials associated with the home
             occupation.
             •   The applicant indicated that no yard areas or accessory structures will be
                 used for activities or storage associated with the home occupation (Exhibit F
                 & H).

        M. Customers: No customers allowed. Children accessing a limited daycare or
           limited preschool facility shall not be considered customers.
           • The applicant indicates that there will be customers by appointment only
               (Exhibit H).
           • The personal care business does not involve childcare.

        N. Utility Demand: The home occupation shall not cause a demand for public
             utilities in excess of that necessarily and customarily provided for residential
             uses.
             •   The business use does not create a demand for public utilities above that
                 customarily provided for residential uses. (Exhibit H).

        O. Main Structure: The home occupations shall be conducted, located, and
           contained within the primary structure on the property.
           • The applicant indicates that all business use and activities are conducted
              within the basement room of the home (Exhibits G & H).

        P. Single-Family And Multiple-Family Dwellings: Home occupations listed as
             permitted or conditional within this title may be permitted in a single-family or a
             multiple-family dwelling, subject to the standards found within this section and
             section 9-34-060 of this chapter. Businesses within multiple-family dwellings



Paul Nagi Custom Designs, LLC Home Occupation                           App. # 2024-0286-USE
Conditional Use Permit Request                   5
             shall provide an approval letter from the respective homeowners' association, or
             management company in the case of apartments, if the business proposes any
             employees, customers or business vehicles.
             •   The business is not located within a multiple-family dwelling.

        Q. Licensure: Any home occupation involving childcare shall comply with all
             applicable state and local laws and regulations regarding residential childcare,
             including, but not limited to, provisions of the Utah child care licensing act, as set
             forth in Utah Code Annotated section 26-39-101 et seq., as amended, and the
             residential certificate childcare standards as set forth in the Utah administrative
             code section R430-50-1 et seq., as amended. In addition, cottage food
             production operations are regulated and inspected by the Utah department of
             agriculture. Any food related home occupation under their jurisdiction must
             comply with these regulations.
             •   The business use does not provide childcare or involve cottage food
                 production.

The business provides two types of services: measurements and designs for custom made
clothing and basic alterations. All appointments are scheduled in advance and online.
When a customer requests an appointment for custom made clothing measurements, the
applicant schedules a one (1) hour measurement session with the customer which is held
at the applicant’s home. Once the customer measurements are taken, the applicant sends
the designs to an overseas company which creates the custom designed garment and then
ships the finished product to the customer (Exhibit H).

When a customer requests an appointment for alterations, the applicant schedules a
fifteen (15) minute measurement session with the customer which is held at the applicant’s
home. Alterations are completed by the applicant at the subject property. Once the
alterations are complete the customer is notified and returns to pick up the finished
garment (Exhibit H).

The applicant reports they will typically have about fifteen (15) appointments in one week
which are scheduled as individual appointments lasting either one (1) hour or fifteen (15)
minutes depending on the service requested. The appointments are scheduled into any
available time slots during the hours of operation which are from 11:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m.
An off-street parking stall is provided for the use of customers during their scheduled
appointments and for customers picking up alteration orders (Exhibit H).

Staff recognizes the potential for negative impacts of this business type in the form of
increased vehicular traffic and the potential for customer vehicles to be parked on the
street. However, staff suggests that these impacts can be mitigated through the imposition
of the following conditions which have also been included in the recommendations section
of this report:



Paul Nagi Custom Designs, LLC Home Occupation                            App. # 2024-0286-USE
Conditional Use Permit Request                   6
    1. Requiring that the business owner conduct in person customer measurements and
       pick up of alterations by scheduled appointment only.
    2. Limiting scheduled appointments to one (1) customer at a time.
    3. Requiring that customers park in the designated off-street parking space.
    4. Limiting business hours to those indicated by the applicant between 11:00 am and
       6:00 pm.

Criteria For Approval.
The criteria for review and potential approval of a home occupation conditional use permit
request are found in Section 9-5-080(E) of the DCMC. This section depicts the standard of
review for such requests as:

        E. Approval Standards: The standards of this subsection shall apply to the issuance
            of a conditional use permit:
         1. A conditional use permit may be issued for a use to be located within a zone
            where the particular conditional use is allowed by the use regulations of the
            zone.
         2. Reasonable conditions may be imposed as necessary to substantially mitigate
            reasonably anticipated detrimental effects of the proposed use. These
            conditions may include conditions concerning use, construction, character,
            location, landscaping, screening, parking, hours of operation, and other matters
            relating to the purposes and objectives of this section. Such conditions shall be
            expressly set forth in the motion authorizing the conditional use permit.
         3. If the reasonably anticipated detrimental effects of a proposed conditional use
            cannot be substantially mitigated by the imposition of reasonable conditions to
            achieve compliance with applicable standards, the conditional use may be
            denied.
         4. The following factors shall be reviewed and considered in determining whether a
            conditional use permit application should be approved, approved with
            conditions, or denied because reasonable conditions cannot be imposed to
            achieve compliance with applicable standards:
              a. The harmony and compliance of the proposed use with the objectives and
                 requirements of the city's general plan and this title;
              b. The suitability of the specific property for the proposed use;
              c. Whether the proposed use or facility may be injurious to potential or existing
                 development in the vicinity;
              d. The economic impact of the proposed facility or use on the surrounding
                 area;
              e. The aesthetic impact of the proposed facility or use on the surrounding area;
              f. The safeguards proposed or provided to ensure adequate utilities,
                 transportation access, drainage, parking, loading space, lighting, screening,




Paul Nagi Custom Designs, LLC Home Occupation                        App. # 2024-0286-USE
Conditional Use Permit Request                  7
                 landscaping, open space, fire protection, and pedestrian and vehicular
                 circulation;
              g. The safeguards provided or proposed to prevent noxious or offensive
                 emissions such as noise, glare, dust, pollutants and odor from the proposed
                 facility or use; and
              h. The impact of the proposed facility or use on the health, safety, and welfare
                 of the city, the area, and persons owning or leasing property in the area.
          5. The planning commission may request additional information as may be
             reasonably needed to determine whether the requirements of this subsection E
             can be met.

The applicant has provided statements regarding how they comply with conditional use
criteria for approval (Exhibit H).



REVIEWS

Planning Division Review. The Draper City Planning Division has completed their review of
the Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit submission. Comments from this division, if
any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Engineering and Public Works Divisions Review. The Draper City Engineering and Public
Works Divisions have completed their reviews of the Home Occupation Conditional Use
Permit submission. Comments from these divisions, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Building Division Review. The Draper City Building Division has completed their review of
the Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit submission. Comments from this division, if
any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Fire Division Review. The Draper City Fire Marshal has completed his review of the Home
Occupation Conditional Use Permit Submission. Comments from this division, if any, can
be found in Exhibit A.

Noticing. Notice has been properly issued in the manner outlined in the City and State
Codes.



STAFF RECOMMENDATION

Staff recommends that the Planning Commission review the request based on the findings
listed below and the criteria for approval, or denial as listed within the staff report. The
Planning Commission should also hear from the applicant and receive public comment
prior to making a decision.



Paul Nagi Custom Designs, LLC Home Occupation                         App. # 2024-0286-USE
Conditional Use Permit Request                  8
If the Planning Commission decides to approve the request, staff recommends they include
the following conditions of approval:

        1. That all requirements of the Draper City Engineering, Public Works, Building,
           Planning, and Fire Divisions shall be satisfied prior to issuance of a business
           license.
        2. The hours of operation shall be limited to Monday through Friday between 11:00
           a.m. and 6:00 p.m.
        3. Customers coming to the home shall be by appointment only, with only one (1)
           customer being scheduled at a time.
        4. All customer appointments shall be made in advance online.
        5. Customers shall be directed to park on-site in the one (1) designated parking
           space on the driveway as shown on the approved site plan and not on the street.
        6. The applicant shall maintain an active business license for as long as the
           business is in operation from the residence.



MODEL MOTIONS AND FINDINGS

Sample Motion for Approval – I move that we approve the Home Occupation Conditional
Use Permit, as requested by Paul Nagi, representing Paul Nagi Custom Designs LLC.
application 2024-0286-USE, based on the following findings for approval and subject to the
conditions listed in the Staff Report dated September 27, 2024.

Finding for approval:

        1. The proposal complies with the standards for approval found in DCMC Section 9-
           5-080(E) and potential negative impacts are mitigated through the imposition of
           reasonable conditions.

I move that we approve the Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit, as requested by
Paul Nagi, representing Paul Nagi Custom Designs LLC. application 2024-0286-USE, based
on the findings for approval and subject to the conditions listed in the Staff Report dated
September 27, 2024 and as modified by the following additional findings or conditions:

        1. List any additional findings…
        2. List any additional conditions…

Sample Motion for Denial – I move that we deny the Home Occupation Conditional Use
Permit, as requested by Paul Nagi, representing Paul Nagi Custom Designs LLC. application
2024-0286-USE, based on the following findings and the criteria for denial as listed in the
Staff Report dated September 27, 2024.



Paul Nagi Custom Designs, LLC Home Occupation                       App. # 2024-0286-USE
Conditional Use Permit Request                  9
Finding for denial:

        1. The proposal does not comply with all standards for approval found in DCMC
           Section 9-5-080(E) and potential negative impacts are not able to be sufficiently
           mitigated through the imposition of reasonable conditions.




Paul Nagi Custom Designs, LLC Home Occupation                       App. # 2024-0286-USE
Conditional Use Permit Request                  10
                                     EXHIBIT A
                                DEPARTMENT REVIEWS

REVIEWS ARE NOT MEANT TO BE AN ALL-INCLUSIVE LIST OF POSSIBLE COMMENTS OR
CONDITIONS.



Planning Division Review.

       1.     No additional comments.

Engineering and Public Works Divisions Review.

       1.     No additional comments

Building Division Review.

       1.     No additional comments.

Fire Division Review.

       1.     No additional comments.
  EXHIBIT B
VICINITY MAP
 EXHIBIT C
AERIAL MAP
  EXHIBIT D
LAND USE MAP
 EXHIBIT E
ZONING MAP
EXHIBIT F
SITE PLAN
  EXHIBIT G
FLOOR PLANS
                EXHIBIT H
APPLICANT STATEMENTS AND DOCUMENTATION
                EXHIBIT I
INTERIOR PHOTOGRAPHS (APPLICANT PROVIDED)
