MEMO
To: Planning Commission
From: Todd A. Draper, AICP
Date: 2024-03-28
Re: Public Hearing: City Initiated Landscape Ordinance Update (Legislative Item)


Comments:


This application is a request for approval of a Text Amendment to amend landscaping
exemptions for storm water management areas, public facilities, private schools, and
private parks from the limitations on turf installation on slopes and areas less than eight
feet in width. These exemptions may conflict with the water conservation rules adopted
by the Utah Department of Natural Resources Division of Water Resources.


The findings for a positive recommendation are as follows:

1. The proposed amendment is consistent with goals, objectives and policies of the
city's general plan;
2. The proposed amendment furthers the specific purpose statements of the zoning
ordinance;
3. The proposed amendment is appropriate given the context of the request and there
is sufficient justification for a modification to the zoning ordinance;
4. The proposed amendment will not create a conflict with any other section or part of
this title or the general plan;
5. The potential effects of the proposed amendment have been evaluated and are
determined not to be detrimental to public health, safety, or welfare and represent an
overall community benefit; and
6. The proposed text amendment implements best current, professional practices of
urban planning, design, and engineering.

The findings for a negative recommendation are as follows:

1. The proposed amendment is not consistent with goals, objectives and policies of the
city's general plan;
2. The proposed amendment does not further the specific purpose statements of the
zoning ordinance;
3. The proposed amendment is not appropriate given the context of the request and
there is not sufficient justification for a modification to the zoning ordinance;
4. The proposed amendment could create a conflict with another section or part of this
title or the general plan;
5. The potential effects of the proposed amendment have been determined to be
detrimental to public health, safety, or welfare or do not represent an overall community
benefit; and
6. The proposed text amendment is not consistent with current best practices of urban
planning, design, and engineering.


ATTACHMENTS:

2024-0077-TA - PC Staff Report.pdf
