MEMO
To: City Council
From: Todd Taylor
Date: 2024-01-16
Re: Public Hearing: Ordinance #1601


Comments:

This application is a request for approval of a Text Amendment for the purpose of amending
multiple portions of Draper City Municipal Code Titles 9 and 17 to address recent changes to Utah
State Code.

The application will be heard at the January 11, 2024 Planning Commission and the results of the
Planning Commission review and recommendation will be provided to the City Council at the
meeting on January 16, 2024.

The findings for approval are as follows:

  1. The proposed amendment is consistent with goals, objectives and policies of the city's
       general plan;
  2.   The proposed amendment furthers the specific purpose statements of the zoning ordinance;
  3.   The proposed amendment is appropriate given the context of the request and there is
       sufficient justification for a modification to the zoning ordinance;
  4.   The proposed amendment will not create a conflict with any other section or part of this title
       or the general plan;
  5.   The potential effects of the proposed amendment have been evaluated and are determined
       not to be detrimental to public health, safety, or welfare and represent an overall community
     benefit; and
  6. The proposed text amendment implements best current, professional practices of urban
       planning, design, and engineering.

The findings for denial are as follows:

  1. The proposed amendment is not consistent with goals, objectives and policies of the city's
     general plan;
  2. The proposed amendment does not further the specific purpose statements of the zoning
     ordinance;
  3. The proposed amendment is not appropriate given the context of the request and there is
     not sufficient justification for a modification to the zoning ordinance;
  4. The proposed amendment could create a conflict with another section or part of this title or
     the general plan;
  5. The potential effects of the proposed amendment have been determined to be detrimental
     to public health, safety, or welfare or do not represent an overall community benefit; and
  6. The proposed text amendment is not consistent with current best practices of urban
     planning, design, and engineering.



ATTACHMENTS:

2023-4645-TA Staff Report- Finalized.pdf
ATTACHMENTS:

O-1601.pdf
