                       CITY COUNCIL AGENDA

                       Tuesday, October 15, 2024, 5:30 PM
                       1020 E. Pioneer Road Draper, Utah
                       Council Chambers
5:30 PM STUDY SESSION

       Presentation: Salt Lake County - Public Safety Bond

       Discussion: 700 West options - Scott Cooley

       Council/Manager Reports

       Closed Session - by Motion
       The Draper City Council may temporarily recess the regular meeting and
       convene in a closed session to discuss the character, professional competence,
       or physical or mental health of an individual, pending or reasonably imminent
       litigation, or the purchase, exchange, or lease of real property, as provided by
       UCA 52-4-205.

7:00 PM BUSINESS SESSION

1.     Call to Order

2.     Pledge of Allegiance

3.     Oath of Office
       Draper City Fire Department

4.     Proclamation: Recognizing November 1, 2024 as Extra Mile Day.

       4.a Recognition of the Draper Volunteers in Police Service (VIPS) members
           as Extra Mile Heroes.

5.     Public Comments
       To be considerate of everyone attending the meeting, public comments will be
       restricted to items that are not listed on this or a future agenda and limited to three
       minutes per person. Comments which cannot be made within these limits should be
       submitted in writing to the City Recorder prior to noon the day before the meeting.
       Comments pertaining to an item on the agenda should not be given at this time but
       should be held until that item is called.

6.     Consent Items

       6.a Approval of the October 1, 2024, City Council Meeting Minutes.
         6.b Approval of Resolution #24-53
             A Resolution appointing members to the Draper City Community
             Engagement Committee.

7.       Items for Council Consideration

         7.a Public Hearing: Ordinance #1625
             An Ordinance vacating city right-of-way located at approximately 984 E.
             Rosefield Lane. Staff report by Mike Barker.

8.       Adjournment

I, the City Recorder of Draper City, certify that copies of this agenda for the Draper City
Council meeting to be held October 15, 2024, were posted at Draper City Hall, Draper
City      website www.draperutah.gov, and the Utah Public Notice website at
www.utah.gov/pmn.

Date Posted:
                                             Laura Oscarson, MMC, City Recorder
                                             Draper City, State of Utah




In compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act, any individuals needing special
accommodations or services during this meeting shall notify Laura Oscarson, City
Recorder at (801) 576-6502 or laura.oscarson@draperutah.gov, at least 24 hours prior to
the meeting.
