Jennifer Jastremsky

From:                              Holly Curby <holly.chickfila@yahoo.com>
Sent:                              Thursday, February 8, 2024 1:14 PM
To:                                Jennifer Jastremsky
Cc:                                Troy - Cfa Apolonio; Ambrey Hutchings
Subject:                           [EXT] Draper Zoning Meeting Concern 2/8/24


[EXTERNAL SENDER! Only open attachments/links you know are safe.]

Dear Planning Commissioning Team,

Thank you for taking a moment to hear our concerns on behalf of our team, our family, at Chick-fil-A Draper (357 East 12300 South).

We felt rather blindsided in December 2023 when we learned that Chick-fil-A corporate was looking at building a new Chick-fil-A restaurant on a piece of land next to Harmons Grocery store (Bangerter Crossing) in Draper. Of course, our Operator (Troy
Apolonio) had many concerns and immediately addressed them on phone calls with our corporate contacts. It was upon our challenge of this project that our concerns were then met with the disclosure of the deal actually being done and supposedly the
project already being under contract.

This new location in Draper has an expected impact of 24% on our already established Chick-fil-A Draper location off 12300 South (and that doesn’t even account for the ripple effect to our Chick-fil-A South Towne Marketplace location in Sandy which is
owned by the same Operator). An impact of this scale is projected to have an unintended consequence of our Chick-fil-A Draper location having to cut $600-700K in wages - that's over 20 jobs. As you can imagine, our team is a family and therefore this news
has been of great weight and concern for our operator (as each Chick-fil-A is individually owned and operated), as well as to our executive leadership team. These initial impacts don't even include others that affect our established ten-year relationship within
the city of Draper and the community we have the pleasure of serving as new boundaries would be implemented for our store locations and therefore lessen our social responsibility means.

Then came the salt to the wound. Upon recently passing the property we noticed a city notification sign regarding a zoning meeting for the proposed Chick-fil-A at Bangerter Crossing which is scheduled to take place tonight (Thursday, February 8, 2024) at
6:30 pm. Upon researching this meeting we have learned the property is not even zoned for commercial, but rather business use, and therefore we are hoping we have a fighting chance at getting the deal dropped.

We are not opposed to another Chick-fil-A location in the southern end of this valley, rather it is the proximity to our Chick-fil-A Draper store which is of grave concern (1.8 miles away). It is our understanding that this location at Bangerter Crossing is zoned
to where the city has many options for it's use. Likeways, our Operator has suggested to our corporate offices alternative land for a new build such as in "The Point" project or even in the Bluffdale area near Fat Cats. It seems aparent to us that the city has
options and Chick-fil-A Inc. has options to where not rezoning this property could still result in a win-win-win.

Our Operator is unfortunately out of the state as he has, ironically enough, been at a corporate conference and is therefore unable to attend this meeting tonight. Our Operating Partner (Ambrey Hutchings) and I plan on attending.

We greatly appreciate your time in considering our plea as we strive to preserve what we have built and maintained within the Draper community this past ten years (twenty-one years for our Sandy location).

Respectfully,


Holly A. Curby
Director of Community & Culture
385.222.6270 cell
Chick-fil-A @ Draper
357 East 12300 South, Draper, UT 84020
Chick-fil-A @ South Towne Marketplace
10090 South State Street, Sandy, UT 84070

Stay in the know...check out our Social Media:
www.chick-fil-a.com/draper
www.chick-fil-a.com/southtownemarketplace
www.facebook.com/chickfiladraper
www.facebook.com/chickfilasouthtowne

                                                                                                                                    1
text CFADRAPER to 411247
text CFASANDY to 41147
www.instagram.com/draper.chickfila
www.instagram.com/southtowne.chickfila


Sent from my iPhone




                                         2
