                                 Development Review Committee
                                     1020 East Pioneer Road
                                       Draper, UT 84020
                                        August 30, 2024

To:               Draper City Planning Commission
                  Business Date: September 12, 2024

From:             Development Review Committee

Prepared By: Nick Whittaker, MCMP, Planner II
             Planning Division
             Community Development Department
             801-576-6522, Nick.Whittaker@draperutah.gov

Re:      C&I LLC Home Occupation – Conditional Use Permit Request
         Application No.: 2024-0262-USE
         Applicant:        Alaina Newson, representing C&I LLC
         Project Location: 11572 S. Sweet Berry Dr.
         Current Zoning: R3 (Single-family residential)
         Acreage:          Approximately 0.23 acres (10,018 ft2)
         Request:          Request for approval of a conditional use permit to operate a
                           cottage business home occupation that makes and distributes
                           pre-ordered baked goods.

BACKGROUND AND SUMMARY

This application is a request for approval of a Conditional Use Permit to operate a cottage
business home occupation on approximately 0.23 acres located on the west side of Sweet
Berry Dr. at approximately 11572 S. Sweet Berry Dr. (Exhibits B and C). The property is
currently zoned R3. The home occupation makes and distributes pre-ordered baked goods.

The property is Lot 1622 of the Cranberry Hill No. 16 Phased Unit Development. The home
was constructed in 2009. The business is primarily operated from the kitchen in the home.




C&I, LLC Home Occupation                                            App. # 2024-0262-USE
Conditional Use Permit Request                 1
ANALYSIS

General Plan and Zoning.
 Table 1                    General Plan and Zoning Designations                         Exhibit
 Existing Land Use          Residential Medium Density                                   D
 Current Zoning             R3 (Single-Family Residential, 13,000 ft2 min. lot size)     E
 Proposed Use               Home occupation as a secondary use to SFD
 Adjacent Zoning            R3
     East                   R3
     West                   R3
     North                  R3
     South                  R3

The Residential Medium Density land use designation is characterized as follows:




According to Draper City Municipal Code (DCMC) Section 9-8-020, the purpose of the R3
zone is to, “permit medium density residential development without special mitigation
requirements. This zone is intended to provide incentives to foster residential development
with little impact on its surroundings and on municipal services, and to generally preserve
the semirural character called for in the density element of the general plan.”



C&I, LLC Home Occupation                                                    App. # 2024-0262-USE
Conditional Use Permit Request                      2
Site Plan Layout. The applicant has provided a schematic floor plan which is attached as
Exhibit F. The business workspace is located on the main floor in the kitchen which is
approximately 500 ft² in size. A storage space that is 150 ft² and located in the basement is
also used for the business.

Parking. One off street parking stall shown in the applicant’s photos provided in Exhibit G is
provided for customers coming to the property which is located on the existing driveway
and directly in front of the northernmost stall of the 3-car garage. The stall is paved and
does not impede resident access to the two (2) required parking spaces for residential use
located in the two-car garage to the north.

Home Occupation. The DCMC Section 9-34-040 outlines development standards applicable
to all home occupations. Those criteria, along with information specific to the subject
request, are as follows:

         A. Ownership: The home occupation shall be owned and operated by a person who
             resides in the dwelling where the home occupation is located. Such person shall
             be the primary provider of the labor, work, or service provided in the home
             occupation.
             •    The applicant is the property owner.

         B. Business License: A business license for the home occupation shall be obtained
             from and continually maintained with the city pursuant to title 6, chapter 11 of
             this code.
             •    The applicant will be required to maintain an active business license for as
                  long as the business is in operation from the residence.

         C. Employees: Members of the family of the owner who reside in the dwelling may
             be employed in the home occupation. Nonfamily or nonresident employees
             shall be limited to one person.
             •    The applicant is the only employee and has stated that there will be no other
                  employees of C&I LLC (Exhibit G).

         D. Inspection: All facilities shall comply with fire, building, plumbing, electrical and
             all other city, county, state and federal codes. Inspections during reasonable
             hours by city officials may occur as necessary to assure compliance with
             regulations.
             •    The applicant is aware of and will comply with required inspections as
                  necessary.




C&I, LLC Home Occupation                                                 App. # 2024-0262-USE
Conditional Use Permit Request                   3
         E. Inventory: No stock in trade, inventory, or other merchandise to exceed two
              hundred fifty (250) square feet shall be kept on the premises. No outside storage
              is allowed.
              •   The applicant keeps all inventory in the 500 ft² kitchen and in the 150 ft²
                  storage space as shown on the floor plans found in Exhibit F. There is no
                  outdoor storage.

         F. Modification Of Structures Or Yards: There shall be no visible evidence from the
              exterior of a dwelling that it is being used for any other purpose than that of a
              dwelling. No activities shall be carried on outside the dwelling in the yard for the
              benefit of or incidental to the home occupation. No front yard area shall be
              altered to provide parking required for a home occupation.
              •   No modifications to the structure or yard areas are being proposed. All
                  activities except for order pick up are conducted inside the dwelling. The
                  parking area designated for customers already exists.

         G. Nuisance: Tools, items, equipment, or activities conducted within the dwelling
              which is offensive or noxious by reason of the emission of odor, smoke, gas,
              vibration, magnetic interference, or noise shall be prohibited.
              •   The applicant has indicated in their responses found in Exhibit G that the
                  business use of the property will not create any of the above-listed
                  nuisances.

         H. Secondary Use: The home occupation shall be clearly incidental and secondary
              to the primary use of the dwelling for residential purposes. The home
              occupation shall not disrupt the normal residential character of the
              neighborhood in which the residence is located. Not more than twenty five
              percent (25%) of the dwelling unit shall be used for the home occupation.
              •   The business area in the kitchen and storage area in the basement total
                  approximately 650 ft². The home is approximately 2,624 ft² in size and the
                  business use occupies only 24% of the overall home area. The proposed
                  business complies with this standard.

         I.   Signs: All signage in a residential area must comply with chapter 26, "Signs", of
              this title.
              •   The applicant states that there is no business signage on the property and
                  none is proposed at this time (Exhibit G).

         J.   Traffic, Parking, And Access: No home occupation use shall generate pedestrian,
              parking, or vehicular traffic in excess of that customarily associated with the
              zone in which the use is located. All parking shall be provided and maintained on
              site with adequate provision for drop off traffic.
              •   There will be no walk-in customers.



C&I, LLC Home Occupation                                                 App. # 2024-0262-USE
Conditional Use Permit Request                    4
             •    All orders are made in advance and picked up by appointment when the
                  order is ready.
             •    Customer parking for picking up orders is located on the existing driveway
                  directly in front of the northern most stall of the 3-car garage.

         K. Vehicles: Other than the business owner's personal transportation, there shall
             be no vehicles or equipment on the property associated with the home
             occupation which would not normally be found at a residence. No signage for
             the home occupation shall be allowed on vehicles.
             •    The applicant’s home occupation does not include the use of a business
                  vehicle.

         L. Yards: Yards surrounding the dwelling and accessory buildings shall not be used
             for any activities or storage of any materials associated with the home
             occupation.
             •    With the exception of the customer parking and order pick up, no yard areas
                  are utilized for activities related to the business.

         M. Customers: No customers allowed. Children accessing a limited daycare or
            limited preschool facility shall not be considered customers.
            • The applicant is seeking approval to allow customers to come to the home by
                appointment to pick up orders when they are ready. There will be no walk-in
                customers at any time.

         N. Utility Demand: The home occupation shall not cause a demand for public
             utilities in excess of that necessarily and customarily provided for residential
             uses.
             •    The business use does not create a demand for public utilities above that
                  customarily provided for residential uses.

         O. Main Structure: The home occupations shall be conducted, located, and
            contained within the primary structure on the property.
            • With the exception of customer order pick up, all business use and activities
               are conducted within the home.

         P. Single-Family And Multiple-Family Dwellings: Home occupations listed as
             permitted or conditional within this title may be permitted in a single-family or a
             multiple-family dwelling, subject to the standards found within this section and
             section 9-34-060 of this chapter. Businesses within multiple-family dwellings
             shall provide an approval letter from the respective homeowners' association, or
             management company in the case of apartments, if the business proposes any
             employees, customers or business vehicles.




C&I, LLC Home Occupation                                                App. # 2024-0262-USE
Conditional Use Permit Request                   5
             •    The cottage business use is listed in Chapter 34 as an allowable Conditional
                  Use, and the dwelling unit type is a single-family dwelling.

         Q. Licensure: Any home occupation involving childcare shall comply with all
             applicable state and local laws and regulations regarding residential childcare,
             including, but not limited to, provisions of the Utah child care licensing act, as set
             forth in Utah Code Annotated section 26-39-101 et seq., as amended, and the
             residential certificate childcare standards as set forth in the Utah administrative
             code section R430-50-1 et seq., as amended. In addition, cottage food
             production operations are regulated and inspected by the Utah department of
             agriculture. Any food related home occupation under their jurisdiction must
             comply with these regulations.
             •    The business use does involve food production. Evidence of compliance with
                  the Utah Department of Agriculture requirements will be required to be
                  provided as part of the business license application. The applicant did not
                  state in their responses in Exhibit G if they were aware of these regulations.

The business is located in the kitchen and is only used for fulfilling orders of baked goods.
The customers place their orders online and pick up their order by appointment when
notified that it is ready (Exhibit G). Hours of operation are from 8 am to 5 pm. All orders are
scheduled with the business owner in advance. Customers are notified when they can pick
up orders. An off-street parking stall is provided for use of customers.

Staff recognizes the potential for negative impacts of this business type in the form of
increased vehicular traffic and the potential for customer vehicles to be parked on the
street. However, staff suggests that these impacts can be mitigated through the imposition
of the following conditions which have also been included in the recommendations section
of this report:

    1. Limiting customers to one (1) at a time.
    2. Requiring that customers park in the designated parking space.
    3. Requiring that the business owner conduct customer order pick up time by
       appointment only.
    4. Limiting business hours to between 9:00 am and 6:00 pm.

Additional potential negative impacts could come from the fact that food products are
produced from the home. This is best mitigated by requiring evidence of compliance with
State statutes regarding Cottage Food Production. Staff has added this as a suggested
condition of approval to the recommendation section of this report.

Criteria For Approval.




C&I, LLC Home Occupation                                                 App. # 2024-0262-USE
Conditional Use Permit Request                   6
The criteria for review and potential approval of a home occupation conditional use permit
request are found in Section 9-5-080(E) of the DCMC. This section depicts the standard of
review for such requests as:

         E. Approval Standards: The standards of this subsection shall apply to the issuance
             of a conditional use permit:
          1. A conditional use permit may be issued for a use to be located within a zone
             where the particular conditional use is allowed by the use regulations of the
             zone.
          2. Reasonable conditions may be imposed as necessary to substantially mitigate
             reasonably anticipated detrimental effects of the proposed use. These
             conditions may include conditions concerning use, construction, character,
             location, landscaping, screening, parking, hours of operation, and other matters
             relating to the purposes and objectives of this section. Such conditions shall be
             expressly set forth in the motion authorizing the conditional use permit.
          3. If the reasonably anticipated detrimental effects of a proposed conditional use
             cannot be substantially mitigated by the imposition of reasonable conditions to
             achieve compliance with applicable standards, the conditional use may be
             denied.
          4. The following factors shall be reviewed and considered in determining whether a
             conditional use permit application should be approved, approved with
             conditions, or denied because reasonable conditions cannot be imposed to
             achieve compliance with applicable standards:
               a. The harmony and compliance of the proposed use with the objectives and
                  requirements of the city's general plan and this title;
               b. The suitability of the specific property for the proposed use;
               c. Whether the proposed use or facility may be injurious to potential or existing
                  development in the vicinity;
               d. The economic impact of the proposed facility or use on the surrounding
                  area;
               e. The aesthetic impact of the proposed facility or use on the surrounding area;
               f. The safeguards proposed or provided to ensure adequate utilities,
                  transportation access, drainage, parking, loading space, lighting, screening,
                  landscaping, open space, fire protection, and pedestrian and vehicular
                  circulation;
               g. The safeguards provided or proposed to prevent noxious or offensive
                  emissions such as noise, glare, dust, pollutants and odor from the proposed
                  facility or use; and
               h. The impact of the proposed facility or use on the health, safety, and welfare
                  of the city, the area, and persons owning or leasing property in the area.
          5. The planning commission may request additional information as may be
             reasonably needed to determine whether the requirements of this subsection E
             can be met.



C&I, LLC Home Occupation                                               App. # 2024-0262-USE
Conditional Use Permit Request                  7
The applicant has provided statements regarding how they comply with conditional use
criteria. Staff has reviewed the applicants statements and application materials to
determine if the conditional use criteria been met.



REVIEWS

Planning Division Review. The Draper City Planning Division has completed their review of
the Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit submission. Comments from this division, if
any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Engineering and Public Works Divisions Review. The Draper City Engineering and Public
Works Divisions have completed their reviews of the Home Occupation Conditional Use
Permit submission. Comments from these divisions, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Building Division Review. The Draper City Building Division has completed their review of
the Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit submission. Comments from this division, if
any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Fire Division Review. The Draper City Fire Marshal has completed his review of the Home
Occupation Conditional Use Permit Submission. Comments from this division, if any, can
be found in Exhibit A.

Noticing. Notice has been properly issued in the manner outlined in the City and State
Codes.



STAFF RECOMMENDATION

Staff recommends that the Planning Commission review the request based on the findings
listed below and the criteria for approval, or denial as listed within the staff report. The
Planning Commission should also review the request, hear from the applicant, and receive
public comment prior to making a decision.

If the Planning Commission decides to approve the request, staff recommends they include
the following conditions of approval:

         1.       That all requirements of the Draper City Engineering, Public Works, Building,
                  Planning, and Fire Divisions shall be satisfied prior to issuance of a business
                  license or its renewal.
         2.       The hours of operation shall be limited to 9:00 am to 6:00 pm.
         3.       All customer orders shall be made online and no walk-in or walk-up orders



C&I, LLC Home Occupation                                                 App. # 2024-0262-USE
Conditional Use Permit Request                    8
                  shall be permitted.
         4.       Customers coming to the home shall be by appointment only, with only one
                  (1) customer picking up their order at a time.
         5.       Clients shall be directed to park on-site in the designated parking space on
                  the driveway and not on the street.
         6.       As part of the business license application, provide evidence of compliance
                  with all cottage food production requirements of the Utah Department of
                  Agriculture and Local Health Department.
         7.       The applicant shall maintain an active business license for as long as the
                  business is in operation from the residence.



MODEL MOTIONS AND FINDINGS

Sample Motion for Approval – I move that we approve the Home Occupation Conditional
Use Permit, as requested by Alaina Newson, representing C&I LLC application 2024-0262-
USE, based on the following finding for approval and subject to the conditions listed in the
Staff Report dated August 30, 2024.

Finding for approval:

         1. The proposal complies with the standards for approval found in DCMC Section 9-
            5-080(E) and potential negative impacts are mitigated through the imposition of
            reasonable conditions.

I move that we approve the Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit, as requested by
Alaina Newson, representing C&I LLC application 2024-0262-USE, based on the findings for
approval and subject to the conditions listed in the Staff Report dated August 30, 2024 and
as modified by the following additional findings or conditions:

         1. List any additional findings…
         2. List any additional conditions…

Sample Motion for Denial – I move that we deny the Home Occupation Conditional Use
Permit, as requested by Alaina Newson, representing C&I LLC application 2024-0262-USE,
based on the following finding and the criteria for denial as listed in the Staff Report dated
August 30, 2024.

Finding for denial:

         1. The proposal does not comply with all standards for approval found in DCMC
            Section 9-5-080(E) and potential negative impacts are not able to be sufficiently
            mitigated through the imposition of reasonable conditions.



C&I, LLC Home Occupation                                               App. # 2024-0262-USE
Conditional Use Permit Request                   9
                                     EXHIBIT A
                                DEPARTMENT REVIEWS

REVIEWS ARE NOT MEANT TO BE AN ALL-INCLUSIVE LIST OF POSSIBLE COMMENTS OR
CONDITIONS.



Planning Division Review.

       1.     No additional comments.

Engineering and Public Works Divisions Review.

       1.     No additional comments

Building Division Review.

       1.     No additional comments.

Fire Division Review.

       1.     No additional comments.
  EXHIBIT B
VICINITY MAP
 EXHIBIT C
AERIAL MAP
  EXHIBIT D
LAND USE MAP
 EXHIBIT E
ZONING MAP
             EXHIBIT F
SCHEMATIC SITE PLAN AND FLOOR PLAN
                                   EXHIBIT G
                   APPLICANT STATEMENTS AND DOCUMENTATION


Statement of Compliance with Standards

The development standards set forth in this section shall apply to any home occupation
allowed as a permitted use:
   A. Ownership: The home occupation shall be owned and operated by a person who
      resides in the dwelling where the home occupation is located. Such person shall
      be the primary provider of the labor, work, or service provided in the home
      occupation.
          •   I am the homeowner of this property
B. Business License: A business license for the home occupation shall be obtained
from and continually maintained with the city pursuant to title 6, chapter 11 of this code.
          •   This is the purpose of me wanting to get a Conditional use permit from the
              city. I currently already have a Utah State license
C. Employees: Members of the family of the owner who reside in the dwelling may be
employed in the home occupation. Nonfamily or nonresident employees shall be limited
to one person.
          •   Currently I am the only employee
D. Inspection: All facilities shall comply with fire, building, plumbing, electrical and all
other city, county, state and federal codes. Inspections during reasonable hours by city
officials may occur as necessary to assure compliance with regulations.
          •   I am compliant with all areas listed under the inspection. I also had a
              similar inspection completed from the Department of Agriculture to obtain
              my cottage license.
E. Inventory: No stock in trade, inventory, or other merchandise to exceed two hundred
fifty (250) square feet shall be kept on the premises. No outside storage is allowed.
(Ord. 909, 7-21-2009)
          •   All My storage space for my business is only 150 Square feet.
F. Modification Of Structures Or Yards: There shall be no visible evidence from the
exterior of a dwelling that it is being used for any other purpose than that of a dwelling.
No activities shall be carried on outside the dwelling in the yard for the benefit of or
incidental to the home occupation. No front yard area shall be altered to provide parking
required for a home occupation. (Ord. 1132, 2-17-2015)
          •   This will be followed
G. Nuisance: Tools, items, equipment, or activities conducted within the dwelling which
is offensive or noxious by reason of the emission of odor, smoke, gas, vibration,
magnetic interference, or noise shall be prohibited.
          •   The products I create do not make an offensive or noxious odor or sound
H. Secondary Use: The home occupation shall be clearly incidental and secondary to
the primary use of the dwelling for residential purposes. The home occupation shall not
disrupt the normal residential character of the neighborhood in which the residence is
located. Not more than twenty five percent (25%) of the dwelling unit shall be used for
the home occupation.
          •   1 customer at a time will be coming into my home only to pick up an order.
              Customers will only be in my residence around 10-15 minute.
I. Signs: All signage in a residential area must comply with chapter 26, "Signs", of this
title.
          •   I do not have any signs outside of my home
J. Traffic, Parking, And Access: No home occupation use shall generate pedestrian,
parking, or vehicular traffic in excess of that customarily associated with the zone in
which the use is located. All parking shall be provided and maintained on site with
adequate provision for drop off traffic.
          •   I have 1 designated parking spot for Customers in the hours of 9am-6pm.
K. Vehicles: Other than the business owner's personal transportation, there shall be no
vehicles or equipment on the property associated with the home occupation which
would not normally be found at a residence. No signage for the home occupation shall
be allowed on vehicles.
          •   I do not have or plan to have any equipment of transportation with my
              business name on it.
L. Yards: Yards surrounding the dwelling and accessory buildings shall not be used for
any activities or storage of any materials associated with the home occupation.
          •   I do not use any part of my yard for this business.
M. Customers: No customers allowed. Children accessing a limited daycare or limited
preschool facility shall not be considered customers.
          •   I am not running a daycare or preschool in my home
N. Utility Demand: The home occupation shall not cause a demand for public utilities in
excess of that necessarily and customarily provided for residential uses.
          •   I do not require and additional utility support
O. Main Structure: The home occupations shall be conducted, located, and contained
within the primary structure on the property. (Ord. 909, 7-21-2009)
          •   Everything is conducted within the structure of my home.
P. Single-Family And Multiple-Family Dwellings: Home occupations listed as permitted
or conditional within this title may be permitted in a single-family or a multiple-family
dwelling, subject to the standards found within this section and section 9-34-060 of this
chapter. Businesses within multiple-family dwellings shall provide an approval letter
from the respective homeowners' association, or management company in the case of
apartments, if the business proposes any employees, customers or business vehicles.
(Ord. 1132, 2-17-2015)
          •   My property is considered a single family home
Q. Licensure: Any home occupation involving childcare shall comply with all applicable
state and local laws and regulations regarding residential childcare, including, but not
limited to, provisions of the Utah child care licensing act, as set forth in Utah Code
Annotated section 26-39-101 et seq., as amended, and the residential certificate
childcare standards as set forth in the Utah administrative code section R430-50-1 et
seq., as amended. In addition, cottage food production operations are regulated and
inspected by the Utah department of agriculture. Any food related home occupation
under their jurisdiction must comply with these regulations. (Ord. 909, 7-21-2009)
          •   My business is not a daycare.
