MEMO
To: City Council
From: Tevai Haunga
Date: 2024-03-12
Re: Public Hearing: Ordinance #1596


Comments:

This application is a request for approval of a Zoning Map Amendment on approximately
0.48 acres located on the east side of 700 E., at approximately 11853 S. 700 E. The
property is currently zoned RA2 and the current land use designation is CC (Community
Commercial). The applicant is requesting that a Zoning Map Amendment be approved to
allow for future commercial development of the property by others.

The planning Commission unanimously voted forward a positive recommendation on this
application with a 5-0 vote at their November 16, 2023 meeting.


Findings for approval:



  1. The proposed amendment is consistent with goals, objectives and policies of the
     city’s general plan.
  2. The proposed amendment is harmonious with the overall character of existing
     development in the vicinity of the subject property
  3. The proposed amendment is consistent with the standards of any applicable
     overlay zone.
  4. The proposed amendment will not adversely affect adjacent property.
  5. The facilities and services intended to serve the subject property are adequate
     including, but not limited to, roadways, parks and recreation facilities, police and fire
     protection, schools, storm water drainage systems, water supplies, and wastewater
     and refuse collection.



Findings for denial:



  1. The proposed amendment is not consistent with goals, objectives and policies of
     the city’s general plan.
  2. The proposed amendment is not harmonious with the overall character of existing
     development in the vicinity of the subject property.
  3. The proposed amendment is not consistent with the standards of any applicable
     overlay zone.
  4. The proposed amendment will adversely affect adjacent property.
  5. The facilities and services intended to serve the subject property are not adequate
     including, but not limited to, roadways, parks and recreation facilities, police and fire
     protection, schools, storm water drainage systems, water supplies, and wastewater
     and refuse collection.




ATTACHMENTS:

Tunbridge Zoning MA SR Final.pdf
ATTACHMENTS:

Rezone_Ordinance_Tunbridge_Final.pdf
