MEMO
To: City Council
From: Travis DeJong
Date: 2024-11-12
Re: Public Hearing: Providing Local Consent for a Limited-Service Restaurant License for
White Tomato Draper LLC dba White Tomato Artisan Pasta.


Comments:

White Tomato Draper LLC dba White Tomato Artisan Pasta located at 278 E 12300 S Suite
106 is seeking Local Consent for a Limited-Service Restaurant license. They have provided
the following:

- Liquor liability insurance.
- Bond payable to the Department of Alcoholic Beverage Services.
- Floor map showing where alcohol is to be served, stored, and consumed.
- Sales tax license.
- A background check conducted by the Bureau of Criminal Identification.

White Tomato Draper LLC dba White Tomato Artisan Pasta has applied for a Draper City
business license for their restaurant operations numbered CBL-2156-2024 and expiring
December 31, 2025.

The findings for Local Consent approval are as follows:

DCMC 6-4-040 requires that a limited-service restaurant be at least three hundred feet
(300') away from any community location (schools, churches, public libraries, public
playgrounds, and public parks) measured by the shortest pedestrian route taken from
the nearest patron entrance of the restaurant to the property boundary of the
community location.

White Tomato Draper LLC dba White Tomato Artisan Pasta has met this requirement.

DCMC 6-4-040 requires that a limited-service restaurant be at least two hundred feet
(200') away from any community location (schools, churches, public libraries, public
playgrounds, and public parks) measured in a straight line from the nearest patron
entrance of the restaurant to the property boundary of the community location.

White Tomato Draper LLC dba White Tomato Artisan Pasta has met this requirement.
DCMC 6-4-050 places no restrictions on the number of limited-service restaurant licenses
that can be granted by the City.


ATTACHMENTS:

Floor Plan.pdf
ATTACHMENTS:

Sales Tax License.PDF
ATTACHMENTS:

Liquor Liability Insurance.pdf
ATTACHMENTS:

White Tomato Draper LLC Local Consent PP.pptx
ATTACHMENTS:

11082024_UTAH DEPARTMENT OF ALCOHOUC BEVERAGE CONTROL.pdf
