MEMO
To: City Council
From: Jennifer Jastremsky, AICP
Date: 2024-02-20
Re: Public Hearing: Ordinances #1603 and #1604


Comments:


This application is a request for approval of a Zoning and Land Use Map Amendment for
approximately 1,035.49 acres located on the southern boundary of the City at approximately 1950
East 16365 South. The property is currently zoned A5.




Draper City and Lehi City approved a municipal boundary line adjustment in late 2022 that
removed the property from Draper City’s jurisdiction and placed it in the jurisdiction of Lehi City. At
that time the Draper City did not amend the Zoning and Land Use Maps to reflect that the property
is no longer in its jurisdiction. Draper City is now seeking to amend the maps to remove the zoning
and land use designations for the properties.


The planning Commission reviewed this item at their February 8, 2024 meeting and forwarded a
positive recommendation on a 5-0 vote.



The findings for approval as are follows:




  1. The proposed amendment is consistent with goals, objectives and policies of the city's
     general plan.
  2. The proposed amendment is harmonious with the overall character of existing development
     in the vicinity of the subject property.
  3. The proposed amendment is consistent with the standards of any applicable overlay zone.
  4. The proposed amendment will not adversely affect adjacent property.
  5. There will be adequate facilities and services intended to serve the subject property within
      Lehi City. Given the property being land locked, Draper City cannot provide services to this
      property. Services include, but not limited to, roadways, parks and recreation facilities, police
     and fire protection, schools, stormwater drainage systems, water supplies, and wastewater
     and refuse collection.
  6. The proposed amendment complies with DCMC Section 9-2-020(F).
ATTACHMENTS:

Ord 1603 Rezone.pdf
ATTACHMENTS:

Ord 1604 Land Use.pdf
ATTACHMENTS:

City Initated Draper-Lehi ZC-LUMA- PC Staff Report -2-8-24 Combined.pdf
