                                        BY-LAWS

                                            OF

                   DRAPER COMMUNITY FOUNDATION, INC.

                                        ARTICLE I

                                          Purpose

        The purpose of this Corporation is to engage exclusively in doing of charitable,
educational, cultural, historical, religious and/or scientific works. The trustees and
Officers of the Corporation shall at all times act for the accomplishment and attainment
of the purposes of the Corporation herein expressed, and as expressed in its Articles of
Incorporation, it being expressly understood that no part of the capital assets or earnings
of the Corporation shall inure to the benefit of any Trustee, Officer or to any other
person, except to pay reasonable compensation for services actually rendered to the
Corporation and to make payments and distributions in furtherance of the said purposes.

                                       ARTICLE II

                                          Offices

       Principal Office. The principal office of the Corporation is hereby fixed and
located at 1020 East Pioneer, Draper, Utah 84020. The Board of Trustees is hereby
granted full power and authority to change said principal office from one location to
another.

                                       ARTICLE III

                                         Members

       There shall be no members of this Corporation.

                                       ARTICLE IV

                                          Trustees

        Section 1. Board of Trustees. The Board of Trustees shall consist of such
Trustees as shall from time to time be appointed or elected in accordance with the
Articles of Incorporation.
        Section 2. Meetings. The Board of Trustees shall meet at least annually, and at
such additional times and places as the Board shall authorize upon such notice as the
Board may by resolution determine. The Board of Trustees may also act by unanimous
written consent without a meeting. A record of such consent shall be kept with the
minutes of all meetings.

        Section 3. Quorum. Except as otherwise provided in these By-Laws, a majority
of the Trustees on the Board of Trustees shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of
business. In the absence of a quorum, the presiding Officer or a majority of the Trustees
present may adjourn the meeting from time to time without further notice, until a quorum
is convened.

        Section 4. Vacancies. Should a vacancy occur in the Board of Trustees for any
reason, then a successor Trustee shall be selected in the manner provided in the Articles
of Incorporation for selecting Trustees.

        Section 5. Powers of the Board of Trustees. Unless otherwise specifically
provided in the Articles of Incorporation or in the By-Laws, all of the corporate powers
of the Corporation shall be vested in the Board of Trustees. In furtherance thereof, and in
addition to all powers in them vested or implied by any provision of these By-Laws, the
Board of Trustees shall have the power:

       (a) To appoint and control and at its pleasure remove any agents and employees
           ant to allow such compensation for their services as the Board shall deem
           proper. This shall include the power to appoint investment advisors, trust
           companies, banks or other fiduciaries to invest and safeguard the assets of the
           Corporation;
       (b) To prescribe, consistent with these By-Laws, the duties of any Officer;
       (c) To determine and govern all matters affecting finances, discipline,
           committees or function of this Corporation;
       (d) To conduct such acts as may be required to carry out the exempt purposes of
           the Corporation.

        Section 6. Removal of Trustees and Officers. Any Trustee or Officer of the
Corporation may be removed with or without cause by written notice from the Board of
Trustees (which is the body entitled to select Trustees as provided in the Articles of
Incorporation); provided that such action shall have been approved by at least a two-
thirds (66.6%) majority vote of the Board.

        Section 7. Resignation of a Trustee or Officer. Any Trustee or Officer of the
Corporation may resign by giving the Board of Trustees at least (30) days notice in
writing of such intention, or such shorter notice as the Board shall accept as adequate.
                                       ARTICLEV

                                          Officers

        Section 1. Principal Officers. The Principal Officers of the Corporation shall be
a President, one or more Vice-Presidents, a Secretary, a Treasurer, and such other
officers, as the Board of Trustees shall detennine. All said Officers shall be elected by
the Board of Trustees at its annual meeting called for this purpose. Said Officers shall
serve at the pleasure of the Board. One person may hold more than one office except no
person shall be both President and Secretary. The Treasurer may be a corporation.

        Section 2. Vacancies. Should vacancies occur among the Officers, for any
reason, such vacancies shall be filled by the Board of Trustees to serve until the next
annual or special meeting is convened for the purpose of electing Officers.

       Section 3. The President. The President shall be the general supervisor over the
Corporation's business and affairs and see to the proper observance and enforcement of
all By-Laws, rules and regulations of the Corporation, and any action or order of the
Board of Trustees. The President presides over all meetings of the Board of Trustees.

        Section 4. Vice-Presidents. The Vice-President (or Vice-Presidents) shall be
responsible for all duties specified by the Board of Trustees. In the absence of the
President, the Vice-Presidents (or Vice-Presidents) shall preside in the order in which
they are designated.

        Section 5. The Secretary. The Secretary shall keep a book of minutes of all
meetings of the Board of Trustees, with the time and place of holding, and the
proceedings thereof, which minutes shall be open to inspection by the Trustees and
Officers. He/She shall give notice of all meetings of the Board of Trustees required by the
By-Laws or by law to be given, and shall have such other powers and perform such other
duties as may be prescribed by the Corporation, the Board or the By-Laws.

        Section 6. The Treasurer. The Treasurer shall keep and maintain adequate and
correct accounts of the properties and business transactions of the Corporation. The
books of account shall be open at all times for inspection by the Trustees and Officers of
the Corporation. He/She shall deposit all monies and other valuables in the name and to
the credit of the Corporation with such depository as may be designated by the Board of
Trustees. He/She shall prepare monthly financial reports of the financial affairs of the
Corporation for inspection and consideration of the Board of Trustees at their monthly
business meeting, and provide such financial information as may be necessary to comply
with any statutes requiring reporting thereof to any governmental authority.

Disbursement of Corporate funds shall be by check drawn on Corporation accounts and
signed by one or more Officers of the Corporation as designated by the Board of
Trustees.
       Section 7. Other duties and Officers. The President, Vice-President, Secretary,
Treasurer and such other Officers as may be appointed by the Board shall have such
additional duties and powers as shall be provided by the Board of Trustees.

        All Officers shall be responsible for insuring no activity of the Corporation is
undertaken in violation of these By-Laws or the Articles of Incorporation and that no
action required by the Articles oflncorporation or By-Laws is omitted.

                                       ARTICLE VI

                                     Board of Trnstees

          Because of the diversity of Draper Community it is in the best interests of the
Draper Community Foundation to appoint members to the Board of Trustees that
represent various committees involved in conducting events, Miss Draper Pageant
Director, and Community Events Director, all of which are conducting events for the
benefit of the community. Each active event committee will recommend to the Board of
Trnstees a representative who will then be presented to the Board of Trustees for
approval as a member of the Board. The City may appoint 2 members of the Draper City
Council as members of the Board. Both City Council members will be voting Board
members. In addition, members of the Board may include a member of the Draper
Chamber of Commerce, Draper Visual Arts Foundation, Sorensen Home Museum,
Draper Historic Theater, and the Draper Historical Society, All members of the Board
will serve terms of four (4) years and may be appointed for multiple terms

        The Board of Trustees may select up to four (4) members from the community
who will serve as members of the Board of Trustees as At Large Representatives and will
serve at the pleasure of the Board for a period of four (4) years.

       No Board member will fill more than on seat on the Board at any given time and
under not circumstances will any individual will have more than one (1) vote as a Board
member.

                                       ARTICLE VII

                                        Amendment

       These By-Laws may be amended by the majority vote of the Board of Trustees at
an annual, regular, or special meeting. Notice of the special meeting of the Board of
Trustees need not set forth any proposed changes.
                                     ARTICLE VIII

                                     Indemnification

        The Corporation shall, to the maximum extent permitted by law, indemnify each
of its Trustees and officers against expenses, judgments, fines, settlements and other
amounts actually and reasonable incurred in connection with any proceeding arising by
reason of the fact that any such person is or was a Trustee or officer of the Corporation
and shall advance to such Trustee or officer expenses incurred in defending any such
proceeding to the maximum extent permitted by law. The Board of Trustees of the
Corporation may, at its discretion, provide by resolution for comparable indemnification
of any other agents of the Corporation, to the extent permitted by law.




       The undersigned Secretary of DRAPER COMMUNITY FOUNDATION, INC.
hereby certifies that the foregoing By-Laws are the By-Laws of this Corporation.



       CERTIFIED BY:


                                             Draper Community Foundation, Inc.
