                              Development Review Committee
                                   1020 East Pioneer Road
                                     Draper, Utah 84020



                                      STAFF REPORT
                                      January 25, 2024

To:                 Draper City Planning Commission
                    Business Date: February 8, 2024

From:               Development Review Committee

Prepared By:        Maryann Pickering, AICP, Planner III
                    Planning Division
                    Community Development Department
                    (801) 576-6391 or maryann.pickering@draperutah.gov

Re:     Federal Heights Holding LLC — Zoning and Land Use Map Amendments
        Application Nos.:  TEXTMAP-204-2022 (Zoning) and TEXTMAP-206-2022 (Land Use)
        Applicant:         Marlon Bates representing Chris Silvestro
        Project Location:  Approximately 11743 S. 700 East
        Current Zoning:    RA1 (Residential Agricultural, 40,000 square foot minimum)
        Acreage:           Approximately 1.19 acres (approximately 51,836.4 square feet)
        Request:           Request to amend the land use designation from Community
                           Commercial to Neighborhood Commercial and rezone the
                           property from RA1 to CN (Neighborhood Commercial).



SUMMARY and BACKGROUND
This application is a request for approval for zoning and land use map amendments for
approximately 1.19 acres located on the east side of 700 East, at approximately 11743 S.
700 East (Exhibits B and C). The property is currently zoned RA1. The applicant is
requesting that the zoning and land use map amendments are approved to allow for an
office to operate in the existing home on the site.




Federal Heights Holdings LLC                                Apps. # TEXTMAP-204-2022 and
Zoning and Land Use Map Amendments           1                          TEXTMAP-206-2022
The property owner applied for a business license on March 10, 2022 to locate a software
company at the property in the existing home. However, because the business owner does
not intend to live at the home, they do not meet the qualifications for operating as a home-
based business. Currently, the applicant has indicated he is operating in another city and is
awaiting the outcome of these applications before he potentially moves the business to
Draper. This application proposes to change the zoning to a commercial zone so that they
can convert the home to a commercial use and operate as an office use from this location.
The business license is pending until the outcome of the zoning and land use map
amendment request. If the applicant is successful in obtaining the land use and zoning
map changes, they will still have to obtain approval of an amended site plan to add the
minimum required parking to the property for the intended use.

This item was originally scheduled for the February 9, 2023 meeting of the Planning
Commission and the applicant requested a continuance to a date uncertain before the
Planning Commission meeting was held. The applicant is now ready to move forward with
the request.

ANALYSIS
General Plan and Zoning.

 Table 1                 General Plan and Zoning Designations                     Exhibit
 Current Land Use        Community Commercial                                     Exhibit D
 Current Zoning          RA1                                                      Exhibit E
 Proposed Use            Office for software company
 Adjacent Zoning
    East                 RA1
    West                 CC (Community Commercial)
    North                RA1
    South                CN

The Community Commercial land use designation is characterized as follows:




Federal Heights Holdings LLC                                 Apps. # TEXTMAP-204-2022 and
Zoning and Land Use Map Amendments            2                          TEXTMAP-206-2022
According to Draper City Municipal Code (DCMC) Section 9-8-020 the purpose of the RA1
and RA2 zones are to “foster low density development with little impact on its surroundings
and municipal services; to generally preserve the character of the City’s semi-rural areas;
and to promote and preserve conditions favorable to large-lot family life, including the
keeping of limited numbers of animals and fowl. The predominant use in these zones is
intended to be detached single-family dwellings, protected from encroachment by
commercial and industrial uses.”

The zoning and land use map amendments would change the current maps to allow the
business to operate in the existing home as a commercial business and to make all
applicable site improvements necessary for use as an office building. The proposed land
use for the property is Neighborhood Commercial. The Neighborhood Commercial land
use designation is characterized as follows:




Federal Heights Holdings LLC                                  Apps. # TEXTMAP-204-2022 and
Zoning and Land Use Map Amendments            3                           TEXTMAP-206-2022
Per DCMC Section 9-8-020, the purpose of the CN zone is to “provide areas where
convenience buying outlets, having small trade areas, may be established to serve
surrounding residential neighborhoods. This zone is intended to promote a combination
of retail and service facilities which, in character and scale, meet day to day needs of
nearby residents.”

Criteria For Approval.
A Zoning Map Amendment is a matter committed to the legislative discretion of the City
Council and is not controlled by any one standard. However, in making a recommendation
to the City Council, the Planning Commission should consider the following factors in
Section 9-5-060(E) of the DCMC:

1.      Map Amendments:
        a.   Whether the proposed amendment is consistent with goals, objectives and
             policies of the city's general plan;
        b.   Whether the proposed amendment is harmonious with the overall character
             of existing development in the vicinity of the subject property;
        c.   Whether the proposed amendment is consistent with the standards of any
             applicable overlay zone;
        d.   The extent to which the proposed amendment may adversely affect adjacent
             property; and



Federal Heights Holdings LLC                               Apps. # TEXTMAP-204-2022 and
Zoning and Land Use Map Amendments          4                          TEXTMAP-206-2022
        e.      The adequacy of facilities and services intended to serve the subject
                property, including, but not limited to, roadways, parks and recreation
                facilities, police and fire protection, schools, stormwater drainage systems,
                water supplies, and wastewater and refuse collection.

The Land Use Map amendment request falls under DCMC Section 9-2-020(F) because the
Land Use Map is part of Draper City’s General Plan. That section lists the following criteria
for a General Plan amendment as:

        Plan Amendment: All plan amendments shall be in accordance with Utah Code
        Annotated 10-9a-404, as amended and, unless requested by the city's legislative
        body, shall follow the procedures as outlined in Draper City Municipal Code 9-5-
        060(D).” That section is noted as follows:

        D.      Procedure: Zoning text and map amendments shall be considered and
                processed as provided in this subsection:
                1.    A complete application shall be submitted to the office of the zoning
                      administrator in a form established by the administrator along with
                      any fee established by the city’s schedule of fees. The application
                      shall include at least the following information:
                      a.      The name, address and telephone number of the applicant
                              and the applicant’s agent, if any.
                      b.      The name and address of every person or company the
                              applicant represents.
                      c.      The requested amendment and reasons supporting the
                              request.
                      d.      If the proposed amendment requires a change in the zoning
                              map, the application shall include:
                              (1)      An accurate property map showing present and
                                       proposed zoning classifications;
                              (2)      All abutting properties showing present zoning
                                       classifications; and
                              (3)      An accurate legal description and an approximate
                                       common address of the area proposed to be rezoned.
                      e.      If the proposed amendment requires a change in the text of
                              this title, the application shall include chapter and section
                              references and a draft of the proposed text.
                2.    After the application is determined to be complete, the zoning
                      administrator shall prepare a staff report evaluating the application.
                3.    The planning commission shall schedule and hold a public hearing on
                      the application as provided in sections 9-5-040 and 9-5-045 of this
                      chapter. Following the public meeting, the planning commission shall
                      recommend approval, approval with modifications, or denial of the


Federal Heights Holdings LLC                                   Apps. # TEXTMAP-204-2022 and
Zoning and Land Use Map Amendments              5                          TEXTMAP-206-2022
                        proposed amendment and shall submit its recommendation to the
                        city council for review and decision.
                4.      The city council shall schedule and hold a public hearing on the
                        application as provided in sections 9-5-040 and 9-5-045 of this
                        chapter. Following the public hearing, the city council may approve,
                        approve with modifications, or deny the proposed amendment.


REVIEWS
Planning Division Review. The Draper City Planning Division has completed their review of
the zoning and land use map amendments submission. Comments from the Division, if
any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Building Division Review. The Draper City Building Division has completed their review of
the zoning and land use map amendments submission. Comments from the Division, if
any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Engineering and Public Works Divisions Review. The Draper City Engineering and Public
Works Divisions has completed their review of the zoning and land use map amendments
submission. Comments from the Division, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Fire Division Review. The Draper City Fire has completed their review of the zoning and
land use map amendments submission. Comments from the Division, if any, can be found
in Exhibit A.

Legal Review. The Draper City Attorney has completed their review of the zoning and land
use map amendments submission. Comments from the Division, if any, can be found in
Exhibit A.

Noticing. Notice has been properly issued in the manner outlined in the City and State
Codes.



STAFF RECOMMENDATION
Staff recommends that the Planning Commission review the requests, receive public
comment, and make a decision based on the findings listed below and the criteria for
approval, or denial, as listed within the staff report.

The findings for approval are as follows:

1.       The proposed amendment is consistent with the goals, objectives and policies of the
         city's general plan;



Federal Heights Holdings LLC                                   Apps. # TEXTMAP-204-2022 and
Zoning and Land Use Map Amendments              6                          TEXTMAP-206-2022
2.      The proposed amendment is harmonious with the overall character of existing
        development in the vicinity of the subject property;
3.      The proposed amendment is consistent with the standards of any applicable overlay
        zone;
4.      The proposed amendment should not adversely affect adjacent property;
5.      The facilities and services intended to serve the subject property, including, but not
        limited to, roadways, parks and recreation facilities, police and fire protection,
        schools, stormwater drainage systems, water supplies, and wastewater and refuse
        collection, are adequate; and
6.      The proposed land use map amendment complies with DCMC Sections 9-2-020(F)
        and 9-5-060(D).

The findings for denial are as follows:

1.      The proposed amendment is not consistent with the goals, objectives and policies of
        the city's general plan;
2.      The proposed amendment is not harmonious with the overall character of existing
        development in the vicinity of the subject property;
3.      The proposed amendment is not consistent with the standards of any applicable
        overlay zone;
4.      The proposed amendment is likely to adversely affect adjacent property;
5.      The facilities and services intended to serve the subject property, including, but not
        limited to, roadways, parks and recreation facilities, police and fire protection,
        schools, stormwater drainage systems, water supplies, and wastewater and refuse
        collection, are inadequate; and
6.      The proposed land use map amendment does not comply with DCMC Sections 9-2-
        020(F) and 9-5-060(D).



MODEL MOTIONS
Land Use Map Amendment
Sample Motion for Approval – I move that we forward a positive recommendation to the
City Council for the Federal Heights Holdings LLC Land Use Map Amendment, as requested
by Marlon Bates, representing Chris Silvestro, application TEXTMAP-206-2022 based on the
findings and subject to the conditions listed in the Staff Report dated January 25, 2024.

Sample Motion for Modified Approval – I move that we forward a positive recommendation
to the City Council for the Federal Heights Holdings LLC Land Use Map Amendment, as
requested by Marlon Bates, representing Chris Silvestro, application TEXTMAP-206-2022
based on the findings and subject to the conditions listed in the Staff Report dated January
25, 2024 and as modified by the findings and conditions below:

        1.      List any additional findings and conditions . . .


Federal Heights Holdings LLC                                        Apps. # TEXTMAP-204-2022 and
Zoning and Land Use Map Amendments               7                              TEXTMAP-206-2022
Sample Motion for Denial – I move that we forward a negative recommendation to the City
Council for the Federal Heights Holdings LLC Land Use Map Amendment, as requested by
Marlon Bates, representing Chris Silvestro, application TEXTMAP-206-2022 based on the
findings and subject to the conditions listed in the Staff Report dated January 25, 2024.

Zoning Map Amendment
Sample Motion for Approval – I move that we forward a positive recommendation to the
City Council for the Federal Heights Holdings LLC Land Use Map Amendment, as requested
by Marlon Bates, representing Chris Silvestro, application TEXTMAP-204-2022 based on the
findings and subject to the conditions listed in the Staff Report dated January 25, 2024.

Sample Motion for Modified Approval – I move that we forward a positive recommendation
to the City Council for the Federal Heights Holdings LLC Land Use Map Amendment, as
requested by Marlon Bates, representing Chris Silvestro, application TEXTMAP-204-2022
based on the findings and subject to the conditions listed in the Staff Report January 25,
2024 and as modified by the findings and conditions below:

        1.      List any additional findings and conditions . . .

Sample Motion for Denial – I move that we forward a negative recommendation to the City
Council for the Federal Heights Holdings LLC Land Use Map Amendment, as requested by
Marlon Bates, representing Chris Silvestro, application TEXTMAP-204-2022 based on the
findings and subject to the conditions listed in the Staff Report dated January 25, 2024.




Federal Heights Holdings LLC                                        Apps. # TEXTMAP-204-2022 and
Zoning and Land Use Map Amendments               8                              TEXTMAP-206-2022
               DEVELOPMENT REVIEW COMMITTEE ACKNOWLEDGEMENT

We, the undersigned, as duly appointed members of the Draper City Development Review
Committee, do acknowledge that the application which provides the subject for this staff
report has been reviewed by the Committee and has been found to be appropriate for
review by the Draper City Planning Commission and/or City Council.


                                                                                                       Digitally signed by Matthew T. Symes
                  Digitally signed by Brien Maxfield                                                   DN: C=US,
                  DN: C=US,
                                                                                                       E=matt.symes@draperutah.gov,
 Brien Maxfield   E=brien.maxfield@draperutah.gov,
                  O=Draper, OU=Public Works -                             Matthew T. Symes             O=Draper City Building Department,
                  Engineering, CN=Brien Maxfield                                                       CN=Matthew T. Symes
                  Date: 2024.01.30 16:25:49-07'00'                                                     Date: 2024.01.30 15:12:52-07'00'


Draper City Public Works Division                                         Draper City Building Division

                                                                                                 Digitally signed by Todd A.
                                                                                                 Draper
                                                                                                 DN: C=US,
                         Digitally signed by Don Buckley                                         E=todd.draper@draper.ut.us,
                         DN: C=US, E=don.buckley@draper.ut.us, O=Draper         Todd A. Draper
Don Buckley              City Fire Department, OU=Fire Marshal, CN=Don
                         Buckley
                         Date: 2024.01.30 16:17:32-07'00'
                                                                                                 O=Draper City Planning,
                                                                                                 CN=Todd A. Draper
                                                                                                 Date: 2024.01.31
                                                                                                 19:51:09-07'00'

Draper City Fire Department                                               Draper City Planning Division


                                                                                                 Digitally signed by Mike Barker
                                                                          Mike Barker            Date: 2024.01.30 14:47:30
                                                                                                 -07'00'


                                                                          Draper City Legal Counsel
                                    EXHIBIT A
                               DEPARTMENT REVIEWS

REVIEWS ARE NOT MEANT TO BE AN ALL INCLUSIVE LIST OF POSSIBLE COMMENTS OR
CONDITIONS.

Planning Division Review.
No additional comments provided.

Building Division Review.
No additional comments provided.

Engineering and Public Works Divisions Review.
No additional comments provided.

Fire Division Review.
No additional comments provided.
  EXHIBIT B
VICINITY MAP
 EXHIBIT C
AERIAL MAP
  EXHIBIT D
LAND USE MAP
 EXHIBIT E
ZONING MAP
        EXHIBIT F
APPLICANT’S INFORMATION
Travis DeJong

From:                             noreply@civicplus.com
Sent:                             Thursday, March 10, 2022 10:26 AM
To:                               Business Licensing
Subject:                          Online Form Submittal: Commercial Business License Application

Categories:                       Work in Progress



              Commercial Business License Application

              Business Details

              BUSINESS DETAILS

              Business Name                Mystic Media LLC

              Doing Business As            Field not completed.
              "DBA" Name

              Opening Date                 3/31/2022

              Temporary Business           Field not completed.
              Dates

              Application Type:            Commercial Business

              Type of Organization         Limited Liability Company (LLC)

              Detailed Business            Mystic Media is a multi-disciplined software development
              Description                  agency. As a leading mobile app and software development
                                           agency, we continuously monitor the latest trends to anticipate
                                           future technological growth. Our team of senior programmers,
                                           engineers, app designers, digital marketers, and graphic
                                           designers have years of experience creating industry-leading
                                           strategies and custom solutions.

                                           While our teams have decades of software design and
                                           development experience, we are constantly learning and
                                           enhancing our skills to stay on the forefront of technology.
                                           From powerful mobile applications to custom data-driven
                                           websites and desktop applications, we use proven
                                           technologies to create stable, sustainable tools for your
                                           business.

                                           Our app development company can respond quickly to meet
                                           your changing business needs. Across our eight main service
                                           areas, we provide exceptional reliability and advanced software

                                                           1
                            to anticipate future business growth as well as effective digital
                            media solutions.

                                     (Section Break)

BUSINESS LOCATION

Address                     11743 South 700 East

Suite/Unit #                Field not completed.

City                        Draper

State                       UT

Zip                         84020

                                     (Section Break)

BUSINESS MAILING ADDRESS
If different than the address entered above, please enter the business mailing
address below.

Address                     PO BOX 900370

Suite/Unit #                Field not completed.

City                        Sandy

State                       UT

Zip                         84090

                                     (Section Break)

BUSINESS OWNER INFORMATION

This name will appear on the business license. To list a business as the owner,
input the business name in both the First and Last Name slots.


Owner's First Name          Christopher

Owner's Last Name           Silvestro

Email                       chris@mysticmediasoft.com

Phone                       8016619803

                                     (Section Break)




                                            2
