                                    Development Review Committee
                                        1020 East Pioneer Road
                                          Draper, UT 84020
                                              September 27, 2024

To:               Draper City Planning Commission
                  Business Date: September 12, 2024

From:             Development Review Committee

Prepared By: Nick Whittaker, MCMP, Planner II
             Planning Division
             Community Development Department
             801-576-6522, Nick.Whittaker@draperutah.gov

Re:      Austin's Appliance Repair Home Occupation– Conditional Use Permit Request
         Application No.: 2024-0307-USE
         Applicant:         Austin Ewell, representing Austin's Appliance Repair
         Project Location: 794 E. 12500 S.
         Current Zoning: RA2 (Residential agricultural)
         Acreage:           Approximately 0.37acres (16,117 ft2)
         Request:           Request for approval of a conditional use permit to operate a
                            home occupation office that provides outcall appliance repair
                            services.



BACKGROUND AND SUMMARY

This application is a request for approval of a Conditional Use Permit to operate a home
occupation office on approximately 0.37 acres located on the south side of 12500 S. at
approximately 794 E. (Exhibits B and C). The property is currently zoned RA2. The home
occupation provides outcall appliance repair services.

The property is a parcel within the old Draperville Plat Subdivision. The home was
constructed in 1941 and a detached two (2) car garage was added to the property in 1965
(Exhibit F). The business office is located in a main level bedroom in the home and a
storage area for business inventory is located in the detached two (2) car garage (Exhibits F
& G). A business vehicle is also parked at the property when not in use. (Exhibits F, H, & I)




Austin’s Appliance Repair - Home Occupation                           App. # 2024-0307-USE
Conditional Use Permit Request                        1
ANALYSIS

General Plan and Zoning.
 Table 1                     General Plan and Zoning Designations                         Exhibit
 Existing Land Use           Residential Medium Density                                   D
 Current Zoning              RA2 (Residential Agricultural, 20,000 ft2 min. lot size)     E
 Proposed Use                Home occupation
 Adjacent Zoning             RA2
    East                     RA2
    West                     RA2
    North                    RA2
    South                    RA2

The Residential Low-Medium Density land use designation is characterized as follows:




According to Draper City Municipal Code (DCMC) Section 9-8-020(B)(1), the purpose of the
RA2 zone is to, “foster low density development with little impact on its surroundings and
municipal services; to generally preserve the character of the city's semirural areas; and to
promote and preserve conditions favorable to large lot family life, including the keeping of
limited numbers of animals and fowl. The predominant use in these zones is intended to



Austin’s Appliance Repair - Home Occupation                                   App. # 2024-0307-USE
Conditional Use Permit Request                       2
be detached single-family dwellings, protected from encroachment by commercial and
industrial uses.”

Site Plan Layout. The applicant has provided a site plan which is included in Exhibit F. The
site plan shows the subject property and the location of the single-family dwelling and the
detached two (2) car garage to the southwest of the primary dwelling. A concrete driveway
connects between the detached garage and 12500 S. There is no sidewalk along the street
frontage.

Parking. The applicant desires as part of the Conditional Use Permit to park a business
vehicle at the home when not in use. The vehicle will be parked in an area located on the
north end of the existing paved driveway on the west side (Exhibits F & I). The location is in
the front yard of the home and will not impede access to the detached garage located in
the rear yard (Exhibit F).

Home Occupation. The DCMC Section 9-34-040 outlines development standards applicable
to all home occupations. Those criteria, along with information specific to the subject
request, are as follows:

         A. Ownership: The home occupation shall be owned and operated by a person who
             resides in the dwelling where the home occupation is located. Such person shall
             be the primary provider of the labor, work, or service provided in the home
             occupation.
             •    The applicant is the property owner and is also the business owner and
                  primary provider of labor for the home occupation.

         B. Business License: A business license for the home occupation shall be obtained
            from and continually maintained with the city pursuant to title 6, chapter 11 of
            this code.
            • The applicant has maintained a business license for the operation of Austin’s
                Appliance Repair as a permitted use home occupation from the subject
                property since 2014. During their 2024 renewal process, the applicant added
                that they would like to park a business vehicle with vehicle signage at the
                property and utilize 100 square feet of storage space in the detached garage
                for inventory. These changes to the business operation require approval of a
                Conditional Use Permit that is the focus of this application. The applicant has
                indicated that he intends to continue to renew and maintain a business
                license for the business as required (Exhibit H).

         C. Employees: Members of the family of the owner who reside in the dwelling may
             be employed in the home occupation. Nonfamily or nonresident employees
             shall be limited to one person.




Austin’s Appliance Repair - Home Occupation                            App. # 2024-0307-USE
Conditional Use Permit Request                  3
             •    The applicant indicated that he is the only employee of Austin’s Appliance
                  Repair (Exhibit H).

         D. Inspection: All facilities shall comply with fire, building, plumbing, electrical and
             all other city, county, state and federal codes. Inspections during reasonable
             hours by city officials may occur as necessary to assure compliance with
             regulations.
             •    The applicant has indicated that he will comply with required inspections as
                  necessary (Exhibit H).

         E. Inventory: No stock in trade, inventory, or other merchandise to exceed two
             hundred fifty (250) square feet shall be kept on the premises. No outside storage
             is allowed.
             •    The applicant keeps all inventory in the 100 ft² storage space located in the
                  detached garage (Exhibits F, H & I). There is no outdoor storage.

         F. Modification Of Structures Or Yards: There shall be no visible evidence from the
             exterior of a dwelling that it is being used for any other purpose than that of a
             dwelling. No activities shall be carried on outside the dwelling in the yard for the
             benefit of or incidental to the home occupation. No front yard area shall be
             altered to provide parking required for a home occupation.
             •    No modifications to the structure or yard areas are being proposed.
             •    The applicant is seeking approval to park his business vehicle on the existing
                  driveway in the location shown on the submitted site plan (Exhibits F & H).

         G. Nuisance: Tools, items, equipment, or activities conducted within the dwelling
             which is offensive or noxious by reason of the emission of odor, smoke, gas,
             vibration, magnetic interference, or noise shall be prohibited.
             •    The applicant has indicated that there will be no nuisances as repair work is
                  not done at the subject property (Exhibit H).

         H. Secondary Use: The home occupation shall be clearly incidental and secondary
             to the primary use of the dwelling for residential purposes. The home
             occupation shall not disrupt the normal residential character of the
             neighborhood in which the residence is located. Not more than twenty five
             percent (25%) of the dwelling unit shall be used for the home occupation.
             •    The business area in the bedroom office and storage area in the garage
                  (Exhibit F) total approximately 200 ft². The home has approximately 824 ft² of
                  floor space. The business use occupies and area on the property equal to
                  approximately 24% of the overall home floor area. The proposed business
                  complies with this standard.




Austin’s Appliance Repair - Home Occupation                               App. # 2024-0307-USE
Conditional Use Permit Request                    4
         I.   Signs: All signage in a residential area must comply with chapter 26, "Signs", of
              this title.
              •   The applicant has indicated that the business vehicle has signage attached to
                  it (Exhibits H & I).
              •   DCMC Subsection 9-26-030 defines a vehicle sign as: “Any magnetic, painted,
                  permanently attached, or temporarily attached sign which is affixed to a
                  vehicle or trailer. This definition does not apply to banner signs attached to
                  vehicles, signs or lettering on public transit vehicles, taxis or company
                  vehicles operating during the normal course of business or parked in a
                  legally designated on site parking space at the location of the company
                  owning the vehicle.”
              •   DCMC Chapter 9-26: Signs does not provide any additional standards
                  applicable to signs on company vehicles parked in a legally designated on-
                  site parking space at the location of the company owning the vehicle. The
                  chapter does however indicate that signage related to licensed home
                  occupation businesses is allowed. If the Planning Commission approves the
                  Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit, approval of the existing signage
                  on the business vehicle can be considered as compliant with DCMC Chapter
                  26: Signs and be included as a part of the Conditional Use Permit.

         J.   Traffic, Parking, And Access: No home occupation use shall generate pedestrian,
              parking, or vehicular traffic in excess of that customarily associated with the
              zone in which the use is located. All parking shall be provided and maintained on
              site with adequate provision for drop off traffic.
              •   Customers do not come to the applicant’s home (Exhibit H).
              •   Employee parking is not needed as there are no additional employees
                  (Exhibit H).
              •   The applicant is seeking approval to park one (1) business vehicle on the west
                  side of the existing driveway located in the front yard of the subject property.
                  (Exhibits F & I)

         K. Vehicles: Other than the business owner's personal transportation, there shall
              be no vehicles or equipment on the property associated with the home
              occupation which would not normally be found at a residence. No signage for
              the home occupation shall be allowed on vehicles.
              •   The applicant is seeking approval to park one (1) business vehicle on the west
                  side of the existing driveway located in the front yard of the subject property.
                  (Exhibits F & I)
              •   The applicant’s business vehicle has business related signage (Exhibits H & I).
              •   See analysis in section I. Signs above for full details regarding the business
                  vehicle signage.




Austin’s Appliance Repair - Home Occupation                               App. # 2024-0307-USE
Conditional Use Permit Request                    5
         L. Yards: Yards surrounding the dwelling and accessory buildings shall not be used
             for any activities or storage of any materials associated with the home
             occupation.
             •    With the exception of the off-street parking for the business vehicle, no yard
                  areas are utilized for activities related to the business (Exhibits F & H)
             •    There is 100 ft² of space in the detached garage that will be used for storing
                  materials associated with the home occupation (Exhibits F, H & I).

         M. Customers: No customers allowed. Children accessing a limited daycare or
            limited preschool facility shall not be considered customers.
            • The applicant has indicated that customers do not come to the subject
                property as the business provides only outcall services (Exhibit H).
            • The business is not a limited daycare or preschool.

         N. Utility Demand: The home occupation shall not cause a demand for public
             utilities in excess of that necessarily and customarily provided for residential
             uses.
             •    The home occupation does not add additional demand for public utilities
                  above that customary to the primary residential use of the property.

         O. Main Structure: The home occupations shall be conducted, located, and
            contained within the primary structure on the property.
            • The business office is located in a main level bedroom in the home (exhibits
               F, G & H).
            • 100 ft² of space in the detached garage that will be used for storing materials
               associated with the home occupation (exhibits F , G & H).

         P. Single-Family And Multiple-Family Dwellings: Home occupations listed as
             permitted or conditional within this title may be permitted in a single-family or a
             multiple-family dwelling, subject to the standards found within this section and
             section 9-34-060 of this chapter. Businesses within multiple-family dwellings
             shall provide an approval letter from the respective homeowners' association, or
             management company in the case of apartments, if the business proposes any
             employees, customers or business vehicles.
             •    The Home occupation is not located in a multiple-family dwelling (exhibit H).

         Q. Licensure: Any home occupation involving childcare shall comply with all
             applicable state and local laws and regulations regarding residential childcare,
             including, but not limited to, provisions of the Utah child care licensing act, as set
             forth in Utah Code Annotated section 26-39-101 et seq., as amended, and the
             residential certificate childcare standards as set forth in the Utah administrative
             code section R430-50-1 et seq., as amended. In addition, cottage food
             production operations are regulated and inspected by the Utah department of



Austin’s Appliance Repair - Home Occupation                               App. # 2024-0307-USE
Conditional Use Permit Request                   6
             agriculture. Any food related home occupation under their jurisdiction must
             comply with these regulations.
             •    The business is not involved in childcare or cottage food production.

The business office is located in a spare bedroom in the residence and is used for business
administrative purposes. No customers come to the property as services are outcall only.
The applicant repairs appliances off-site at the customers home or business and does not
repair or bring appliances on the subject property.

One (1) business vehicle with business signage will be at the property when not in use. The
vehicle will be parked in a designated area on the west side of the existing driveway in the
front yard. The width of the driveway is approximately 20 feet. Parking the business vehicle
in the designated location will provide approximately 35 feet of un-encumbered driveway
space between the business vehicle and the two (2) car detached garage and will not
encumber access to the minimum two (2) required residential parking stalls for the
residence located in the garage.

The hours of operation will be from 8:00 am to 6:00 pm. During the hours of operation, the
business vehicle is typically away from the subject property responding to outcall appliance
repair requests and is parked at the residence only when not in use.

Staff recognizes the potential for negative impacts of this business coming from the
potentially undesirable commercial signage due to the storage of a business vehicle that
has business signage attached to it. Staff suggests that these impacts can be mitigated
through the imposition of the following conditions which have also been included in the
recommendations section of this report:

    1. Limiting number of business vehicles kept at the property to one (1).
    2. Requiring that the business vehicle be parked in the designated space shown on the
       site plan whenever it is parked at the subject property.
    3. Requiring that no business-related appliances or appliance repair activities be
       conducted on the subject property.
    4. Limiting the size and details of the signage attached to the business vehicle to that
       which currently exists.



Criteria For Approval.
The criteria for review and potential approval of a home occupation conditional use permit
request are found in Section 9-5-080(E) of the DCMC. This section depicts the standard of
review for such requests as:

         E. Approval Standards: The standards of this subsection shall apply to the issuance
             of a conditional use permit:



Austin’s Appliance Repair - Home Occupation                             App. # 2024-0307-USE
Conditional Use Permit Request                   7
          1. A conditional use permit may be issued for a use to be located within a zone
             where the particular conditional use is allowed by the use regulations of the
             zone.
          2. Reasonable conditions may be imposed as necessary to substantially mitigate
             reasonably anticipated detrimental effects of the proposed use. These
             conditions may include conditions concerning use, construction, character,
             location, landscaping, screening, parking, hours of operation, and other matters
             relating to the purposes and objectives of this section. Such conditions shall be
             expressly set forth in the motion authorizing the conditional use permit.
          3. If the reasonably anticipated detrimental effects of a proposed conditional use
             cannot be substantially mitigated by the imposition of reasonable conditions to
             achieve compliance with applicable standards, the conditional use may be
             denied.
          4. The following factors shall be reviewed and considered in determining whether a
             conditional use permit application should be approved, approved with
             conditions, or denied because reasonable conditions cannot be imposed to
             achieve compliance with applicable standards:
               a. The harmony and compliance of the proposed use with the objectives and
                  requirements of the city's general plan and this title;
               b. The suitability of the specific property for the proposed use;
               c. Whether the proposed use or facility may be injurious to potential or existing
                  development in the vicinity;
               d. The economic impact of the proposed facility or use on the surrounding
                  area;
               e. The aesthetic impact of the proposed facility or use on the surrounding area;
               f. The safeguards proposed or provided to ensure adequate utilities,
                  transportation access, drainage, parking, loading space, lighting, screening,
                  landscaping, open space, fire protection, and pedestrian and vehicular
                  circulation;
               g. The safeguards provided or proposed to prevent noxious or offensive
                  emissions such as noise, glare, dust, pollutants and odor from the proposed
                  facility or use; and
               h. The impact of the proposed facility or use on the health, safety, and welfare
                  of the city, the area, and persons owning or leasing property in the area.
          5. The planning commission may request additional information as may be
             reasonably needed to determine whether the requirements of this subsection E
             can be met.

The applicant has provided statements regarding how they believe they comply with
conditional use criteria for approval of the Conditional Use Permit (Exhibit F, G & H).



REVIEWS



Austin’s Appliance Repair - Home Occupation                            App. # 2024-0307-USE
Conditional Use Permit Request                  8
Planning Division Review. The Draper City Planning Division has completed their review of
the Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit submission. Comments from this division, if
any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Engineering and Public Works Divisions Review. The Draper City Engineering and Public
Works Divisions have completed their reviews of the Home Occupation Conditional Use
Permit submission. Comments from these divisions, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Building Division Review. The Draper City Building Division has completed their review of
the Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit submission. Comments from this division, if
any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Fire Division Review. The Draper City Fire Marshal has completed his review of the Home
Occupation Conditional Use Permit Submission. Comments from this division, if any, can
be found in Exhibit A.

Noticing. Notice has been properly issued in the manner outlined in the City and State
Codes.
STAFF RECOMMENDATION

Staff recommends that the Planning Commission review the request based on the findings
listed below and the criteria for approval, or denial as listed within the staff report. The
Planning Commission should also review the request, hear from the applicant, and receive
public comment prior to making a decision.

If the Planning Commission decides to approve the request, staff recommends they include
the following conditions of approval:

         1.       That all requirements of the Draper City Engineering, Public Works, Building,
                  Planning, and Fire Divisions shall be satisfied prior to issuance of a business
                  license or its renewal.
         2.       The applicant shall maintain an active business license for as long as the
                  business is in operation from the residence.
         3.       The hours of operation shall be limited to between 8:00 am to 6:00 pm.
         4.       The number of business vehicles kept at the property shall be limited to one
                  (1).
         5.       The business vehicle shall be parked in the designated location on the
                  approved site plan located in the front yard on the west side of the existing
                  driveway.
         6.       No customers shall come to the home for business services.
         7.       No on-site repair services shall be performed. No customer appliances shall
                  be brought to or stored at the property.



Austin’s Appliance Repair - Home Occupation                               App. # 2024-0307-USE
Conditional Use Permit Request                    9
         8.       The size and details of the business signage on the business vehicle shall
                  remain consistent with the existing size and details shown in the vehicle
                  images submitted with the Conditional Use Permit application.



MODEL MOTIONS AND FINDINGS

Sample Motion for Approval – I move that we approve the Home Occupation Conditional
Use Permit, as requested by Austin Ewell, representing Austin's Appliance Repair
application 2024-0307-USE, based on the following findings for approval and subject to the
conditions listed in the Staff Report dated September 27, 2024.

Finding for approval:

         1. The proposal complies with the standards for approval found in DCMC Section 9-
            5-080(E) and potential negative impacts are mitigated through the imposition of
            reasonable conditions.

I move that we approve the Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit, as requested by
Austin Ewell, representing Austin's Appliance Repair application 2024-0307-USE, based on
the findings for approval and subject to the conditions listed in the Staff Report dated
September 27, 2024, and as modified by the following additional findings or conditions:

         1. List any additional findings…
         2. List any additional conditions…

Sample Motion for Denial – I move that we deny the Home Occupation Conditional Use
Permit, as requested by Austin Ewell, representing Austin's Appliance Repair application
2024-0307-USE, based on the following findings and the criteria for denial as listed in the
Staff Report dated September 27, 2024.

Finding for denial:

         1. The proposal does not comply with all standards for approval found in DCMC
            Section 9-5-080(E) and potential negative impacts are not able to be sufficiently
            mitigated through the imposition of reasonable conditions.




Austin’s Appliance Repair - Home Occupation                              App. # 2024-0307-USE
Conditional Use Permit Request                   10
                                     EXHIBIT A
                                DEPARTMENT REVIEWS

REVIEWS ARE NOT MEANT TO BE AN ALL-INCLUSIVE LIST OF POSSIBLE COMMENTS OR
CONDITIONS.



Planning Division Review.

       1.     No additional comments.

Engineering and Public Works Divisions Review.

       1.     No additional comments

Building Division Review.

       1.     No additional comments.

Fire Division Review.

       1.     No additional comments.
  EXHIBIT B
VICINITY MAP
 EXHIBIT C
AERIAL MAP
  EXHIBIT D
LAND USE MAP
 EXHIBIT E
ZONING MAP
EXHIBIT F
SITE PLAN
  EXHIBIT G
FLOOR PLANS
                    EXHIBIT H
              APPLICANT STATEMENTS

DESCRIPTION




              Compliance with standards
                                 EXHIBIT I
                       PHOTOGRAPHS (APPLICANT PROVIDED)



Business Vehicle & Parking Location
Business Vehicle and Signage
Garage Storage Space
