                       CITY COUNCIL AGENDA

                       Tuesday, July 16, 2024, 6:00 PM
                       1020 E. Pioneer Road
                       Draper, Utah 84020
                       Council Chambers

AMENDED

       Closed session added to agenda

6:00 PM STUDY MEETING

       Update: Major Road Capital Improvement Projects - Scott Cooley

       Presentation: 2024 Moderate Income Housing Report
       Presentation and work session regarding the annual Moderate Income Housing
       Plan (MIHP) and required reporting to the State. Staff presentation by Todd
       Taylor.

       Council/Manager Reports

       Closed Session
       The Draper City Council may temporarily recess the regular meeting and
       convene in a closed session to discuss the character, professional competence,
       or physical or mental health of an individual, pending or reasonably imminent
       litigation, or the purchase, exchange, or lease of real property, as provided by
       UCA 52-4-205.

7:00 PM BUSINESS MEETING

1.     Call to Order

2.     Pledge of Allegiance

3.     Public Comments
       To be considerate of everyone attending the meeting, public comments will be
       restricted to items that are not listed on this or a future agenda and limited to three
       minutes per person. Comments which cannot be made within these limits should be
       submitted in writing to the City Recorder prior to noon the day before the meeting.
       Comments pertaining to an item on the agenda should not be given at this time but
       should be held until that item is called.

4.     Consent Items

       4.a Approval of the July 2, 2024 City Council Minutes.
     4.b Approval of Resolution #24-35
         A Resolution authorizing the purchase of a police canine for a nominal sum. Staff:
         Rich Ferguson

     4.c Approval of Resolution #24-36
         A Resolution of the Draper City Council approving a Multi-jurisdictional
         Building Inspection Services Agreement

5.   Items for Council Consideration

     5.a Public Hearing: Providing Local Consent for a Single Event Permit for
         Craft Culinary Concepts LLC dba Vermilion Hospitality Group.
         Staff report by Travis DeJong

     5.b Public Hearing: Providing Local Consent for a Beer-Only Restaurant
         License for Pork N Roll Utah Inc dba Pork N Roll.
         Staff report by Travis DeJong

     5.c Public Hearing: This is an opportunity for the public to address the
         council about the creation of a new school district. The boundary of
         the proposed new school district will include the cities of Lehi,
         American Fork, Cedar Hills, Highland, Alpine, and a section of Draper
         within Utah County boundaries.
         Staff report by Mike Barker.

6.   Recess to a Community Reinvestment Agency Meeting.

7.   Adjournment
I, the City Recorder of Draper City, certify that copies of this agenda for the Draper City
Council meeting to be held July 16, 2024, were posted at Draper City Hall, Draper City
website www.draperutah.gov, and the Utah Public Notice website at www.utah.gov/pmn.

Date Posted:
                                             Laura Oscarson, MMC, City Recorder
                                             Draper City, State of Utah




In compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act, any individuals needing special
accommodations or services during this meeting shall notify Laura Oscarson, City
Recorder at (801) 576-6502 or laura.oscarson@draperutah.gov, at least 24 hours prior to
the meeting.
