MINUTES OF THE DRAPER CITY PLANNING COMMISSION MEETING HELD ON
THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 22, 2024, IN THE DRAPER CITY COUNCIL CHAMBERS

PARTICIPATING: Lisa Fowler, Vice-Chair
               Commission Member Susan Nixon
               Commission Member Mary Squire
               Alternate Commission Member Laura Fidler
               Alternate Commission Member Shivam Shah

EXCUSED:              Andrew Adams, Chair
                      Commission Member Gary Ogden
                      Commission Member Kendra Shirey

DID NOT SIT:          Alternate Commission Member Christine Green

STAFF PRESENT: Jennifer Jastremsky, Community Development Director
               Todd Draper, Planning Manager
               Spencer DuShane, City Attorney
               Brien Maxfield, Senior Engineer Manager
               Amie Salazar, Office Manager

6:30 PM Business Meeting

In the absence of Chair Andrew Adams, Vice-Chair Fowler called the meeting to order and
welcomed those present.

1.     Items for Commission Consideration.

       A.     Public Hearing: Lone Peak Specialty Centre Condominium Third Amended
              Plat Request. (Administrative Action).
              On the request of Andy Hubbard, Sam Burgess, and Brian Lines, representing
              Women’s Hospital Indianapolis, L.P. and Lone Peak Specialty Centre Condo
              Owners Association, a Subdivision Plat Amendment Request for a commercial
              condominium located on approximately 0.78 acres, located at approximately 96 E.
              Kimballs Lane, known as Application SUBD-00060-2023. Staff Contact: Todd
              Draper (801) 576-6335, todd.draper@draperutah.gov.

Planning Manager, Todd Draper presented the Staff Report and stated that what is proposed is a
simple amendment to the Condominium Plat that involves the first floor only. Vicinity and aerial
maps of the property were displayed. The land use designation is Cultural Institutional and the
zoning is Regional Commercial (“CR”). The proposed modifications were described on the floor
plan displayed. There is common area the applicants would like to add to the units and the units
are being renumbered. Staff recommended approval.

James Andrew was present on behalf of the applicant Brian Lines and was representing Lone Peak
Hospital. The requested changes are next to their Education Center on the first floor. There is
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
February 22, 2024
Page 2

common space next to it on both sides where they are looking to add office space. What is
proposed changes the (internal) footprint slightly.

Commissioner Nixon asked if the proposed change requires an amendment to the Covenants,
Codes, and Restrictions (“CC&Rs”). Mr. Andrew stated that they will have to be modified and
recorded. Mr. Draper did not believe this would be a major amendment to the CC&Rs, but the
Condominium Owners Association had signed off on the request.

Commissioner Shah asked if the applicant intends to sell off the units. Mr. Andrew stated that
they do not plan to sell them as they will be part of Lone Peak Hospital, which will manage the
parking as well.

Vice-Chair Fowler opened the public hearing. There was no public comment. The public hearing
was closed.

Motion: Commissioner Squire moved to APPROVE the Subdivision Plat Amendment
Request of Andy Hubbard, Sam Burgess, and Brian Lines, representing Women’s Hospital
Indianapolis, LP, and Lone Peak Specialty Centre Condo Owners Association, Application
SUBD-00060-2023 subject to the following:

Conditions:

       1.     That all requirements of the Draper City Engineering, Public Works, Building,
              Planning, and Fire Divisions are satisfied throughout the development of the site
              and the construction of all buildings and tenant improvements on the site, including
              permitting.

       2.     That the subdivision application be actively pursued to completion. If no activity
              has occurred on an application for a period of one (1) year, the application will
              voided and the file closed. An extension of time can be requested per DCMC
              Section 17-9-070.

Findings:

       1.     There is good cause for the amendment. 2. No public street, right-of-way, or
              easement is vacated or amended by the plat.

Second: Commissioner Fidler.

Vote: A roll call was taken with the Commissioners voting 5-to-0 in favor of the motion.
Commissioners Nixon, Squire, Shah, Fidler, and Fowler voted “Yes.” The motion passed
unanimously.
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
February 22, 2024
Page 3

       B.     Public Hearing: Windsor Mill Townhomes Site Plan and Deviation
              (Administrative Action).
              On the request of David Jenkins, representing Olsen and Associates, for a Site Plan
              for 30 townhomes and Deviation to building materials on 3.77 acres of property
              located at 11450 South 820 East. The property is zoned RM2. Applications 2023-
              0239-SP, 2024-4661-VAR. Staff contact is Jennifer Jastremsky, 801-576-6328,
              jennifer.jastremsky@draperutah.gov.

The above item was continued to the March 14, 2024, meeting.

2.     Adjournment.

Motion: Commissioner Squire moved to ADJOURN.

Vote: The motion passed with the unanimous consent of the Commission.

The meeting adjourned at 6:37 PM.
