MINUTES OF THE DRAPER CITY PLANNING COMMISSION MEETING HELD ON
THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 8, 2024, IN THE DRAPER CITY COUNCIL CHAMBERS

PARTICIPATING: Andrew Adams, Chair
               Lisa Fowler, Vice-Chair
               Commission Member Mary Squire
               Commission Member Kendra Shirey
               Alternate Commission Member Laura Fidler
               Alternate Commission Member Shivam Shah

EXCUSED:             Commission Member Susan Nixon
                     Commission Member Gary Ogden

NOT SITTING:         Alternate Commission Member Christine Green

STAFF PRESENT: Jennifer Jastremsky, Community Development Director
               Todd Draper, Planning Manager
               Mike Barker, City Attorney
               Spencer DuShane, City Attorney
               Brien Maxfield, Senior Engineer Manager
               Amie Salazar, Office Manager
               Don Buckley, Fire Marshal
               Tevai Haunga, City Planner
               Maryann Pickering, Planner III

6:30 PM Business Meeting

Chair Andrew Adams called the meeting to order at 6:32 PM.

1.     Items for Commission Consideration.

       A.     Action Item:    Approve Planning Commission Meeting Minutes for
              December 7, 2023. (Administrative Action).

Motion: Commissioner Fowler moved to APPROVE the Planning Commission Meeting
Minutes for December 7, 2023.

Second: Commissioner Squire.

Vote: A roll call was taken with the Commissioners voting 5-to-0 in favor of the motion.
Commissioners Fowler, Squire, Shah, Shirey, and Fidler voted “Yes”. The motion passed
unanimously.
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
February 8, 2024
Page 2

       B.      Action Item:     Approve Planning Commission Meeting Minutes for
               January 11, 2024. (Administrative Action).

Motion: Commissioner Fowler moved to APPROVE the Planning Commission Meeting
Minutes for January 11, 2024.

Second: Commissioner Shirey.

Vote: A roll call was taken with the Commissioners voting 5-to-0 in favor of the motion.
Commissioners Fowler, Squire, Shah, Shirey, and Fidler voted “Yes”. The motion passed
unanimously.

       C.      Public Hearing: Automatic Gate Installers, Inc. Home Occupation
               Conditional Use Permit. (Administrative Action).
               On the Request of Todd and Janet Olsen, Representing the Olsen Family Trust
               8/30/2018 for a Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit Consisting of a Home
               Office with Additional Non-Resident Employees and Work Vehicles. The property
               is approximately .46 acres and is located at approximately 706 East Osborne Estate
               Circle. Known as Application USE-0068-2023. Staff Contact: Tevai Haunga,
               801-576-6522, tevai.haunga@draperutah.com.

City Planner, Tevai Haunga, presented the Staff Report and stated that the matter was continued
from the January 11, 2024, Meeting. Vicinity and Aerial Maps of the property were displayed.
The land use designation is Residential Low to Medium Density and the current zoning is RA-2.
What is proposed is a home office for an automatic gate installation and service business. The
hours of operation are Monday through Friday from 8:30 AM to 4:30 PM. The applicants are
requesting to have up to two non-resident employees come to the home and they have two work
vehicles and equipment parked on the property. The original and updated site plans were
presented. Site photos of the home were provided. Staff’s concerns with existing and potential
negative impacts included the following:

   •   Non-compliance with residential parking and displacement of vehicles on the neighboring
       driveway or street; and

   •   Visual impacts of storage and equipment on site.

Conditions enumerated in the Staff Report were discussed. Mr. Haunga reported that she has been
in contact with the applicant about their potential plans but the updated Site Plan was all that was
submitted in time to be included in the Staff Report. No public comment was received on the
application. A document provided by the applicant the previous Monday after the staff report was
written was provided to the Commission Members.

The applicant, Todd Olsen, stated that to comply, they are in the process of moving to a commercial
location. He asked that the Commission give them until the end of the year to relocate. He stated
that they would like to keep their Draper Business License because they have a 12’ x 14’ in-home
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
February 8, 2024
Page 3

office that will be used until Mr. Olsen’s wife retires. The new commercial location will be for
equipment and employees to meet. Until they move into the commercial space, one employee and
Mr. Olsen’s wife will work from the home. Mr. Olsen clarified that he and his other employees
are gone all day. They are at the home only in the mornings and evenings. The one employee
parks in Mr. Olsen’s garage. Chair Adams confirmed that nothing has changed and the parking
will remain as-is for the rest of the year.

Mr. Olsen stated that they have looked at two properties and expect to find something by the
summer. He referred to the site photo and identified a truck that he stated was owned by a sprinkler
contractor. He stated that his son and daughter-in-law have moved out of the home and they now
have three cars and a three-car garage.

Commissioner Squire asked how many work vehicles will be parked on the property. Mr. Olsen
stated that one will be in the garage and another outside. She recalled that there was a need for
one additional parking spot. They also discussed space in the back that could be utilized to provide
parking and potentially alleviate the need to pour concrete. Planning Manager, Todd Draper stated
that the one employee will still need an additional parking space for their vehicle. He reiterated
that the applicants were asked to come back with plans to show how they will handle the equipment
storage and additional parking. They did not provide plans for the excavator and trailer. Mr. Olsen
stated that the trailer is his personal vehicle.

Mr. Olsen reported that since the last meeting, his son and daughter-in-law moved out of the home.
He now has only one employee who is only on-site during the day. They let one employee go and
do not plan to hire another until they have moved to a commercial location. Mr. Draper stated that
previously they had reported six personal vehicles, two employee vehicles, and two work vehicles
for a total of 10. By removing one employee vehicle and two personal vehicles for those who
moved out, they are down to seven vehicles and not six.

The applicant’s wife, Janet Olsen, again stated that they now have only three personal vehicles and
one employee who comes to the home and takes a work vehicle to jobs. They also have an
excavator. When employees are not at the home there are two work vehicles for a total of at least
five vehicles. Chair Adams clarified that in the evenings there are three personal vehicles on site
and two work vehicles in a three-car garage. The excavator is parked behind the fence, which
leaves two spaces for cars in the driveway. He confirmed that there is no on-street parking. Mr.
Olsen reported that they are in the process of purchasing a new location and all of the work
equipment, including the excavator, will be gone. All that will be there is his personal dump trailer,
a travel trailer, and three personal vehicles.

Commissioner Squire asked the applicants about their plan to screen the equipment in the
meantime. Mr. Olsen stated that he has a spot in the back of his property that he can utilize. He
noted that the standard is that it not be visible from the street. The Staff Report recommended it
be behind an eight-foot fence. Commissioner Squire asked if it complies with the Code if it is
parked in the back of the property and not visible from the street. Mr. Draper stated that they are
looking for mitigation, what Mr. Olsen is now proposing was not part of the proposal submitted to
staff. Staff proposed conditions that can be modified if deemed appropriate by the Commission.
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
February 8, 2024
Page 4


Chair Adams asked Mr. Olsen if he could park the excavator behind his camper so that it is
shielded. Mr. Olsen stated that he can for now. Chair Adams commented that it would be a shame
to pour cement over the small amount of grass in the front of the home.

Community Development Director, Jennifer Jastremsky, suggested that a timeframe be imposed
for the applicants to find an alternative location with restrictions on how they can operate until
then. That gives Staff the ability to provide enforcement, if necessary. Chair Adams referred to
the location of the camper and stated that there is driveway access from the neighboring property.
As a possible solution, he stated that the excavator could be placed on the grass behind the camper
so as to not be visible from the street. Commissioner Squire commented that the City standard is
that it be screened from view from the street. Mr. Olsen stated that the excavator is smaller than
the camper.

Commissioner Shah asked if the applicant is required to renew the permit after six months if
nothing has changed. Mr. Olsen stated that he will have relocated the business by then. Mr. Draper
reported that a Conditional Use Permit runs with the land. Setting timelines will allow the
applicant to continue to operate as long as he complies with the conditions. Mr. Olsen will need
to renew the Business License every year. It was noted that he has had the current Business
License for over 20 years; however, the business has grown and is currently in violation. At this
point, to continue in the manner in which he is operating requires a Conditional Use Permit. If
Mr. Olsen were to move the equipment off of the property, he would still need it for the next six
months. Mr. Draper explained that there are several trailers on the property. The one that Staff is
concerned about is not the personal camper trailer but the utility trailer. Mr. Olsen stated that it is
his personal trailer. Mr. Draper indicated he was of the belief that it is used in the business to
move the excavator.

Mr. Olsen stated that the excavator is in front of the dump trailer. He purchased the dump trailer
long before he acquired the excavator. He questioned why he cannot simply utilize the dump
trailer for personal hauling as needed. He stated that it is utilized for personal use far more than
he uses it for the commercial business. The excavator is tall and will extend over the six-foot
fence. Chair Adams proposed the excavator be parked behind the RV so that it is screened. He
suggested Mr. Olsen be given six months to comply or be in violation of the Conditional Use
Permit. Potential conditions were discussed.

Commissioner Fowler suggested that the vehicles be parked on hard surfaces. Mr. Draper
confirmed that that was recommended in the proposed conditions. Commissioner Fowler asked if
the RV and the dump trailer are currently parked on a gravel surface. Mr. Olsen stated they were.
Commissioners discussed Mr. Olsen’s previous statements that the excavator and trailer were
parked on dirt. Mr. Draper stated that the applicant could use gravel or rock in the area to create a
hard surface. If the utility trailer is considered a personal trailer and not business equipment, Mr.
Olsen would not be allowed to use it with the business. Mr. Draper recommended it remain
included as part of the application.
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
February 8, 2024
Page 5

Commissioner Fowler commented that with home businesses there is often a lot of crossover
between personal and business use. For the City’s purposes, they have to look at anything that is
used in the business as business-related. If they are looking at a six-month timeline, it should not
matter as the excavator is already shielded. If the excavator is already parked on a gravel surface,
it may already be in compliance.

Chair Adams opened the public hearing. There was no public comment. The public hearing was
closed.

Chair Adams stated that the applicant has requested six months to relocate. Six months will give
him enough time to obtain a commercial space. If he does not relocate, he will need to have the
cement pad in the front poured. Between now and the six-month mark, the excavator needs to be
screened. A solution was suggested. The proposed conditions were reviewed and discussed.
Commissioner Fowler suggested that condition number five be modified to specify one employee
rather than two. Condition number eight should be modified to a six-month period of time to
comply. Condition Number nine should be changed to a six-month period of time to come into
compliance and add “…or otherwise screened from view to comply with City Code.”

Motion: Commissioner Squire moved to APPROVE the Automatic Gate Installers, Inc.
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit as requested by Todd and Janet Olsen
representing Application #USE-0068-2023 subject to the following:

Conditions of Approval:

       1.      That all business requirements of the Draper City Engineering, Public Works
               Building, Business Licensing, Planning, and Fire Divisions are satisfied
               throughout the operation of the business.

       2.      A Business License shall be maintained for the life of the business.

       3.      No customers are allowed to come to the property.

       4.      The hours of operation for the business remain within the typical business
               hours of 8 AM to 5 PM.

       5.      That the number of non-resident employees not exceed one (1).

       6.      That the number of work vehicles associated with the business not exceed two
               (2).

       7.      The minimum required two (2) parking spaces located inside of a garage for
               the parking of personal vehicles owned and operated by residents of the
               dwelling continue to be maintained for the residential use. These shall be
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
February 8, 2024
Page 6

             maintained separate from and unimpeded by parking associated with the
             business.

      8.     A minimum of one (1) additional parking space be added within six months to
             the west of the current driveway access and be designated for use by the non-
             resident employees to park onsite when arriving to pick up their work vehicle.

      9.     That the excavator, utility trailer, and any other equipment associated with
             the business if stored on the property shall be located behind the front wall
             plane of the home, and be screened from view with an eight-foot (8’) tall
             opaque fence or otherwise screened from view to comply with City Code.
             Parking of the utility trailer and other equipment shall be on a hard surface
             designed to control drainage water on-site in compliance with the parking
             ordinance requirements for utility trailers. These conditions must be complied
             with within six months.

      10.    The applicants shall provide planning staff with an updated scaled and
             dimensioned floor plan for all floors of the dwelling, including the office space,
             the attached garage, and any other space utilized for the business in the home.

      11.    No stock in trade, inventory, or other merchandise to exceed two hundred fifty
             (250) square feet shall be kept on the premises. No outside storage is allowed.

      12.    No nuisance may be caused through tools, items, equipment, or activities
             conducted at the property that are offensive or noxious by reason of the
             emission of odor, smoke, gas, vibration, magnetic interference, or noise.

      13.    That the conditional use permit for the business may be revoked if at any time
             in the future, any of the listed conditions for approval are violated, or vehicles
             associated with the residence or business are found to be parked in an illegal
             manner on the street (Osborne Estate Circle).

Findings for Approval:

      1.     Reasonable mitigation measures can be placed on the conditional use to
             alleviate anticipated detrimental effects, including parking.

      2.     The proposed use will not, under the circumstances of the particular case, be
             detrimental to the health, safety, or general welfare of persons residing or
             working in the vicinity, or injurious to property or improvements in the
             vicinity.
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
February 8, 2024
Page 7

       3.      The proposed use of the particular location is necessary or desirable to provide
               a service or facility that will contribute to the general well-being of the
               neighborhood and the community.

       4.      The proposed use will comply with applicable regulations and conditions
               specified in the ordinance and will comply with the intent of the City General
               Plan.

Second: Commissioner Fowler.

Vote: A roll call was taken with the Commissioners voting 5-to-0 in favor of the motion.
Commissioners Fowler, Squire, Shah, Shirey, and Fidler voted “Yes”. The motion passed
unanimously.

       D.      Action Item: Draper TOD Fourth Amended Plat Subdivision – Extension of
               Approval (Administrative Action).
               On the Request of Connor Roberts Representing ICO Multi Family Holdings, LLC
               and Ivory Innovations, an Extension of the January 12, 2023, Approval of the
               Draper TOD Fourth Amended Plat Subdivision, located at approximately 663 West
               Vista Station Boulevard. Application SUBD-86-2022. Staff Contact: Todd A.
               Draper, 801-576-6335, todd.draper@draperutah.gov.

Mr. Draper presented the Staff Report and stated that the request is for an extension of an approval
that was granted about one year ago. A Vicinity Map was displayed and the subject property
identified. A slight change was proposed that will only affect one of the easement accesses. If the
request is approved, the applicants will have until July 12 to record. Mr. Draper stated that the
applicants have outlined their good cause in the Request Letter they provided and have been
making progress. They expect to be able to record soon. They are also still working out issues
such as the Access Easement.

Motion: Commissioner Fowler moved to APPROVE the extension of the Draper TOD
Fourth Amended Plat Subdivision as represented by Connor Roberts Representing ICO
Multi Family Holdings, LLC and Ivory Innovations, Application SUBD-86-2022 based on
the following:

Conditions of Approval:

       1.      That all requirements of the Draper City Engineering, Public Works,
               Building, Planning, and Fire Divisions are satisfied throughout the
               development of the site and the construction of all buildings on the site,
               including permitting.

       2.      All requirements of the geotechnical report are satisfied throughout the
               development of the site and the construction of all buildings on the site.
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
February 8, 2024
Page 8

       3.      The Access Easements shown on the plat are deeded prior to recordation of
               the plat, and the book, page, and entry number of that recordings entered onto
               the plat.

       4.      That the owner’s dedication section on the plat be amended to include both
               lots 119 and 117.

Finding of Approval:

       1.      There is good cause for the vacation or amendment; and no public street,
               right-of-way, or easement has been vacated or amended.

Second: Commissioner Shirey.

Vote: A roll call was taken with the Commissioners voting 5-to-0 in favor of the motion.
Commissioners Fowler, Squire, Shah, Shirey, and Fidler voted “Yes”. The motion passed
unanimously.

       E.      Public Hearing: Raining Hot Coupons, LLC Home Occupation Conditional
               Use Permit (Administrative Action).
               On the request of Sarah Gibbons for a Home Occupation Condition Use Permit for
               an Assembly and Repair, Limited Home-Based Business. The property is located
               at approximately 1935 East Stag Hill Circle in the RA2 (Residential Agricultural
               20,000 square foot minimum lot size). Application 2023-4587-USE. 2023-4629-
               MA. Staff Contact: Tevai Haunga, 801-576-6522, tevai.haunga@draperutah.gov.

Ms. Haunga presented the Staff Report and stated that the request is an application for a Home
Occupation Conditional Use Permit. Vicinity and Aerial Maps were displayed showing the
property located just west of Highland Drive. The Land Use Designation is Residential Low to
Medium Density and the current zoning is RA-2. This home-based business classifies the use as
limited assembly and repair. The applicant repackages bulk and wholesale shipments of clothing
and other articles and the hours of operation are Monday through Friday from 9:00 AM to 7:00 PM.

The applicants reported that they have frequent deliveries and shipments coming to and from the
home. They have two to three non-resident employees. The floor plan that was submitted with
the application was displayed and includes a home office and an inventory area for shipping.
Interior and exterior photos of the home were displayed. Most business takes place in the garage.
Staff’s concerns with existing and potential negative impacts included increased traffic and
parking, noise from deliveries, non-compliance with parking, residential parking inside the garage,
displacement of vehicles on the driveway, and the overall scale of the operation overtaking and
displacing the primary residential use of the home. Staff included conditions in the Staff Report
to help mitigate the impacts including the number of non-resident employees not exceeding two,
that a minimum of two parking spaces for the residents of the home be in the garage, and that all
deliveries and shipments be made midday between 11:00 AM and 12:00 PM by small and light
duty vehicles. Staff received several public comments that were included in the Staff Report as
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
February 8, 2024
Page 9

well as a comment that was received just before the meeting that was provided to the
commissioners. The applicant also submitted additional documentation earlier in the day that was
not included in the Staff Report.

Mr. Draper reported that Staff made a recommendation for denial but if the Commission is inclined
to grant approval there are suggested conditions enumerated in the Staff Report.

A question was raised about the square footage maximum. Mr. Draper stated that square footages
and dimensions were not provided on the diagram submitted by the applicant. Staff looked at
estimates using the Assessor’s data, which is how they came to some of the calculations and
conclusions in the recommended conditions, including the area limit of 25%. He noted that the
applicants are asking for an area greater than the 25% allowed in the Home Occupation Standards.
With the need to return the garage back into the required parking for the residential use, it made
more sense to take that amount of area out and limit the business similarly.

Ms. Jastremsky referenced Page 7 of the Staff Report specifies use of up to 25% of the dwelling
square footage is allowed by Code. The data received from the Assessor stated that the home is
4,552 square feet in size. As a result, the applicant is requesting more than 25%. She reiterated
that staff has suggested a condition to reduce the square footage used to 25% or 1,671 square feet.
It was noted that the square footage calculation does not include the garage. The area proposed to
be used is equal to approximately 37% of the area of the home.

There was public comment that suggested that the applicants are renters and should not be allowed
to operate a business from the home. Commissioner Fowler’s understanding was that as a resident
they are allowed to request a Conditional Use Permit and need not be the owner. Mr. Draper
confirmed that that was the case.

Fire Marshal, Don Buckley, was concerned that in 2021, this business was a commercial business
in a commercial space. He referenced the photos included in the staff presentation and stated that
it is apparent that this is a commercial business operating out of a home. He had major concerns
with that. He noted that typical home occupation is a very small business. That did not seem to
be the case here. His initial review was based on the home occupation being such as an office or
something slightly larger. He wanted to understand how they plan to mitigate the potential
negative impacts and alleviate potential fire hazards. He had not inspected the property but made
the determination that there were fire hazards based on the photos. His recollection was that at
some point in time, Code Enforcement visited the property. In response to a question raised, Fire
Marshall Buckley reported that extension cords cannot be used for permanent power. He also was
concerned about getting in and out of a space in the event of a fire without tripping over things.

The applicants, Sarah Gibbons and Tosh Heyes were present. Mr. Heyes referenced a photo and
stated that the extension cord is going to a space heater and is not permanent. A pink chair and
black table in the photos have been removed. He offered to provide an updated photo showing
that there is clear access to the door. They have two or three laptops running as well as a printer.
They have gone to mainly drop shipping since they downsized from the warehouse where they
were located. He explained that the front area of the garage has been cleared out.
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
February 8, 2024
Page 10


Commissioner Squire asked about the back area with the two long rows of storage. Mr. Heyes
stated that it is a shipping desk where items are shipped from. There are daily pickups from the
US Postal Service (“USPS”) between 9:30 AM and 11:30 AM. The piles shown in the photo are
temporary shipping packages. Another aisle was shortened to provide better flow and be less
restricted and cluttered.

Commissioner Squire commented that Staff has recommended that they be able to park two
vehicles in the garage. She asked if adjustments can be made to accomplish that. Mr. Heyes
showed a photo of mobile racks where samples are placed. Another room is where clothing is
shown live. There is a stall where an All-Terrain Vehicle (“ATV”) was once parked and can now
accommodate a vehicle. Mr. Heyes stated that his truck is parked in the garage currently and the
mobile racks are brought in and out of the house when the samples are shown live online. In the
evenings, they are placed in the aisles but do not block the exit.

Commissioner Shah asked about parking. Mr. Heyes stated that there are four vehicles total
between him and Sarah, their employees, Alex and Abel. He showed a photo where all four
vehicles are parked as well as a boat and trailer.

Chair Adams referenced an email from a neighbor who indicated that the truck and attached trailer
were parked on the street. Mr. Heyes stated that that has happened on a few occasions. He stated
that he uses it to transport the UTV. It has been used a lot lately for hauling various items. Chair
Adams asked what is parked out front overnight. Mr. Heyes stated that there is a truck with the
trailer parked behind the house. The Tesla and the Tacoma are gone in the evenings. Previously,
they had four personal vehicles but have sold two. They each now have one vehicle. Chair Adams
stated that the neighbors are mindful because they are running a business and there is parking out
front on the street because there is no space in the garage.

A question was raised about the number of employees. It was noted that the Staff Report references
two to three. Mr. Heyes stated that as the business grows, they plan to move back to a commercial
space. A third employee might help them reach their goals. Mr. Heyes confirmed that they need
two employees.

The applicant was asked about the staff recommendation to reduce the square footage of the
business. Mr. Heyes stated that the 1,600 square feet of space utilized by the business includes the
garage. All that is being used inside the home is about 400 square feet. No inventory is kept inside
the home for stocking. The blue square shown on the drawing he estimated to be 420 square feet.
Mr. Draper stated that the request was to use 1,600 square feet, which currently includes the areas
shown in the black and blue squares on the drawing. The garage needs to be restored back to
parking for at least two vehicles and that area cannot be used for the business. Two parking stalls
at a minimum are 400 square feet, and need to come out of the total area as shown. If the applicants
want to put additional square footage elsewhere in the home, they have not indicated where that
would be. Staff’s primary concern was that the garage be restored to meet the minimum parking
requirement. It is a three-car garage, two vehicles in the garage are the minimum. The area for
the third car could be business-related and is not unusually based on other conditional use
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
February 8, 2024
Page 11

applications that are in place. With the conditions, they are trying to put something together that
makes sense within the standard requirements of a home-based business. Staff, however, did not
have additional information about the floor plan or other dimensions as the applicant did not
provide them.

Chair Adams asked the applicant if it is possible to relocate the portion of the business that was
located in the front part of that garage elsewhere in the residence. Mr. Heyes stated that where the
UTV was shown in the photo, he could change the format and use the full double width of the
garage as a neutral area where work will not take place. He could then take what is being used for
the UTV and personal items and move it to the other end without blocking the door. It was noted
that the Staff Report specifies that the area should be limited to 1,138 square feet. Chair Adams
noted that the key is to convert the garage back into a garage. It was suggested that the matter be
tabled to allow the applicant to revamp the plans and reduce the square footage to 1,138 square
feet per the Staff Report. It was also recommended that a second photo be taken for Fire Marshal
Buckley. Fire Marshal Buckley asked that in the meantime that the space heater not be pluged
into an extension cord, which is not safe. It was recommended that Fire Marshal Buckley come to
the home and conduct an inspection.

Commissioner Fowler recommended that the new plans and dimensions be submitted to show how
the space is being used with new photos showing how they are using the space. The applicants
were encouraged to listen to their neighbors’ concerns and how this is a nuisance for them. With
regard to the size of the delivery vehicles, Ms. Gibbons stated that they now only have UPS and
FedEx deliver to the home. The possibility of packages being delivered personally was discussed.
Ms. Gibbons stated that the trucks that come to the home are deliveries only. They typically come
every other day and on weekdays and on average they get six to eight packages that are 26” x 18”
x 10”.

Chair Adams opened the public hearing. There were no public comments. The public hearing
remained open to allow for comments at the next meeting.

Motion: Commissioner Fowler moved to CONTINUE Raining Hot Coupons, LLC Home
Application 2023-4587-USE until the March 14 Planning Commission Meeting at which time
the Planning Commission will review the application with adjustments that the applicant
will work on with Staff and the Fire Marshal over the next four weeks.

Second: Commissioner Fidler.

Vote: A roll call was taken with the Commissioners voting 5-to-0 in favor of the motion.
Commissioners Fowler, Squire, Shah, Shirey, and Fidler voted “Yes”. The motion passed
unanimously.

       F.      Public Hearing: Federal Heights Holdings, LLC Zoning and Land Use
               Amendments (Legislative Action)
               On the request of Marlon Bates, Representing Chris Silvestro, a Land Use Map
               Amendment from Community Commercial to Neighborhood Commercial and a
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
February 8, 2024
Page 12

               Zoning Map Amendment from RA1 (Residential Agriculture, 40,000 square foot
               minimum lot size) to CN (Neighborhood Commercial) for approximately 1.19
               acres located at approximately 11743 South 700 East. Applications TEXTMAP-
               204-2022 (Zoning) and TEXTMAP-206-2022. Staff Contact: Maryann Pickering,
               (801) 576-6391, Maryann Pickeringr@draperutah.gov.

Planner III, Maryann Pickering, presented the Staff Report and displayed a Vicinity Map of the
project. A detailed view of the property was shown. She explained that just one property is
proposed to have the land use and zoning changed. Currently, the land use designation is
Community Commercial and the applicants are proposing to change it to Neighborhood
Commercial. The zoning is RA-1 with a request to rezone to CN to match the two properties to
the south. The Planning Commission should make a recommendation to the City Council. If
approved, the applicant may improve the existing home and convert it to a commercial property.
To do so, some modifications would need to be made to the home as well as a site plan. One call
was received from the Sunset Ponds Homeowners Association (“HOA”) who was informed that
the zoning will be CN.

The applicant, Marlon Bates, identified himself as an Attorney in Salt Lake City. His client,
Federal Heights Holdings, submitted the application. He has represented Federal Heights
Holdings and Chris Silvestro for over 10 years. The property is on 700 East, which is an area that
is changing from Residential and Agricultural to Commercial. The two properties adjacent to the
south have changed in the last year to the zoning being requested. Federal Heights Holdings is
purchasing the property at a residential price, land banking it, and holding on to it with it being
zoned commercial. The hope was that in time as a developer comes in and buys the properties,
Mr. Silvestro can sell the property for a profit. He has no plans to develop it himself.

Chair Adams opened the public hearing.

Annette Gamero, a Sunset Ponds resident, commented that since she moved to Draper three years
ago, she has been at numerous City meetings because of all the changes that are proposed for the
properties behind her. She wanted clarity on what is proposed and ensure that homes are built
there. She commented that 700 East is already very busy and has a lot of traffic. She understood
that Mr. Silvestro wants to keep the property in the hopes that he can sell it later, but she wanted
the Commission to know that the residents of Sunset Ponds are watching and very concerned.

There was no further public comment. The public hearing was closed.

Chair Adams stated that interested residents can obtain specific information on the City’s website
and see what is allowed in a CN zone. Ms. Pickering reported that currently the property is zoned
RA-1, which is Single-Family Residential with a one-acre minimum. The applicant is proposing
that the property be rezoned CN, which is one of the least intensive Commercial zones. Uses such
as schools, churches, and higher education are allowed. A private school would be allowed as a
conditional use. Permitted commercial uses include banks. Bars are permitted but would have to
be approved through the State. The property is Master Planned as Community Commercial and
the applicant is proposing that it be changed to Neighborhood Commercial.
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
February 8, 2024
Page 13


The surrounding lot sizes were discussed. It was noted that this area is in transition. Ms. Pickering
stated that the controversial use is self-storage, which is not permitted in the zone. It was noted
that 700 East is a Utah Department of Transportation (“UDOT”) controlled street. It was reported
that UDOT’s future planning extends the same road section that ends at 11400 South. It will
extend it south to 12300 South in the future. They do not have a date currently planned but it is a
project that could come in the next 10 to 15 years.

Commissioner Fowler commented that this seems to be the natural progression of the area and she
agreed with a less intense commercial use. Currently, the land use is a more intense commercial
use and the applicant is asking for a less intense land use and zoning. The request conforms with
the properties next to it and she felt it was reasonable and perhaps better for those who are
concerned about the proposed use than what was originally anticipated.

Chair Adams commented that the zoning is already CN between Sunset Ponds and the subject
property and will have no impact on Sunset Ponds.

Motion: Commissioner Fowler moved to forward a POSITIVE recommendation to the City
Council on the Federal Heights Holdings, LLC Land Use Map Amendment, as requested by
Marlon Bates representing Chris Silvestro, Application TEXT MAP-206-2022 based on the
following:

Findings:

       1.      The proposed amendment is consistent with the goals, objectives and policies
               of the City's General Plan.

       2.      The proposed amendment is harmonious with the overall character of existing
               development in the vicinity of the subject property.

       3.      The proposed amendment is consistent with the standards of any applicable
               overlay zone.

       4.      The proposed amendment should not adversely affect adjacent property.

       5.      The facilities and services intended to serve the subject property, including,
               but not limited to, roadways, parks and recreation facilities, police and fire
               protection, schools, stormwater drainage systems, water supplies, and
               wastewater and refuse collection, are adequate.

       6.      The proposed land use map amendment complies with DCMC Sections 9-2-
               020(F) and 9-5-060(D).

Second: Commissioner Shah.
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
February 8, 2024
Page 14


Vote: A roll call was taken with the Commissioners voting 5-to-0 in favor of the motion.
Commissioners Fowler, Squire, Shah, Shirey, and Fidler voted “Yes”. The motion passed
unanimously.

Motion: Commissioner Squire moved to forward a POSITIVE recommendation to the City
Council on the Federal Heights Holdings, LLC Zoning Map Amendment, as requested by
Marlon Bates representing Chris Silvestro, Application TEXT MAP-206-2022 based on the
following:

Findings:

      1.     The proposed amendment is consistent with the goals, objectives, and policies
             of the City's General Plan.

      2.     The proposed amendment is harmonious with the overall character of existing
             development in the vicinity of the subject property.

      3.     The proposed amendment is consistent with the standards of any applicable
             overlay zone.

      4.     The proposed amendment should not adversely affect adjacent property.

      5.     The facilities and services intended to serve the subject property, including,
             but not limited to, roadways, parks and recreation facilities, police and fire
             protection, schools, stormwater drainage systems, water supplies, and
             wastewater and refuse collection, are adequate.

      6.     The proposed land use map amendment complies with DCMC Sections 9-2-
             020(F) and 9-5-060(D).

Second: Commissioner Shirey.

Vote: A roll call was taken with the Commissioners voting 5-to-0 in favor of the motion.
Commissioners Fowler, Squire, Shah, Shirey, and Fidler voted “Yes”. The motion passed
unanimously.

      G.     Public Hearing: Chick-fil-A Zoning Map Amendment (Legislative Item).
             On the request of Kip Wadsworth, Agent for Wadsworth Bangerter Crossing, LLC,
             represented by 4G Development and Consulting, a Request for a Zoning Map
             Amendment for approximately 0.803 acres of a 1.68-acre property located at
             approximately 13673 South 100 East. Known as application 2023-4605-MA. Staff
             contact: Todd Taylor, 801-576-6510, or todd.taylor@draperutah.gov.
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
February 8, 2024
Page 15

Mr. Draper presented the Staff Report and stated that the request for rezone is for a proposed
Chick-fil-A. The proposed location was shown on a Vicinity Map displayed. The land use is
Community-Neighborhood Commercial with the zoning being split between the CO2 and CR
zones. The request is for a recommendation to the City Council to change the property from CO2
to CR zone to match the rest of the property.

Kevin Watson was present on behalf of 4G Development who is the Consultant for Chick-fil-A.
They are requesting to change the west side of the site to CR to match the zoning of the surrounding
properties to permit a restaurant there. Commissioner Fowler was concerned about the next step,
which will be the site plan and the traffic pattern. She shops at Harmons frequently and does not
want traffic to back up. She asked Mr. Watson to comment on potential traffic patterns. He stated
that they are currently working on the site plan and preparing for site plan review and a Traffic
Impact Study. He stated that it is important to Chick-fil-A to manage traffic and make sure that it
works well for the community and those trying to access other businesses.

Commissioner Fowler asked about Chick-fil-A’s relationships with other franchisees. The City
has heard from the franchisee of the Chick-fil-A on 12300 South who is concerned about business
being pulled away from their site. Mr. Watson stated that that is a concern for Chick-fil-A. He is
a consultant and cannot speak for Chick-fil-A in that regard but was aware that conversations were
taking place internally and they were working diligently to resolve this concern with the operator
of the local store. He asked that they be allowed to address the concern internally within the Chick-
Fil-A corporation.

A Commissioner noted that it is not the Planning Commission’s job to favor one business over
another. This is a zone change and, unfortunately, it is affecting people in the community who do
a lot of good things. Those issues are not to be considered by the Planning Commission which
should only deal with the matter before them.

In response to a question raised about how the split zoning came about, Ms. Jastremsky stated that
the zoning used to match previous property lines. It is rare but happens occasionally. Mr. Draper
reported that the property was subdivided. The zoning is both Community Commercial and
Neighborhood Commercial. The CO-1 and CO-2 zones are designed to be more of an office zone
with more limited uses compared to CR, which is Regional Commercial with a broader list of uses.
Chair Adams questioned whether a restaurant or an office generates more traffic. Mr. Draper
pointed out that the applicant can build the restaurant on the CR portion that exists currently. That
would, however, limit their ability to stack at the drive-thru. For that reason, they would like to
rezone the property and move the building to the side of the property. Chair Adams considered
traffic to be the primary issue. It was noted that cross-access is required in both zones.

Chair Adams opened the public hearing.

Craig Knight was present representing LD Bowerman Investments who owns Bangerter Crossing.
He was concerned about the strip on the corner near the pizza restaurant and Chase Bank. He
asked if there is something they can do to open the area up.
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
February 8, 2024
Page 16

There was no further public comment. The public hearing was closed.

The location of a storm drainage facility was identified behind the strip mall. Commissioner
Fowler commented that the Commission just looked at another plot and recommended matching
the zoning to the one next to it. She saw no way for the Commission to recommend denial as what
is proposed is consistent with what is happening around it.

A question was raised as to whether the zoning on the property was changed just one year earlier.
Ms. Jastremsky clarified that the applicant got approval for a hotel on the property to the west and
an office building on this property in 2020. The applicants did not develop and came back with a
Development Agreement to reinstate those approvals after they expired. That was the application
that the commissioners had seen. They had not planned to make any changes to the approvals.
The Development Agreement was ultimately approved and the applicants now plan to move
forward with the hotel and do something other than the office building.

Motion: Commissioner Shirey moved to forward a POSITIVE recommendation to the City
Council for the Zoning Map Amendment as requested by 4G Development and Consulting,
representing Kip Wadsworth and Wadsworth Bangerter Crossing, LLC for the Chick-Fil-
Zoning Map Amendment Application Number 2023-4605-MA, based on the following:

Findings:

       1.      The proposed amendment is consistent with the goals, objectives, and policies
               of the City's General Plan.

       2.      The proposed amendment is harmonious with the overall character of existing
               development in the vicinity of the subject property.

       3.      The proposed amendment is consistent with the standards of all applicable
               overlay zones.

       4.      The proposed amendment will not adversely affect adjacent property.

       5.      Facilities and services intended to serve the subject property are adequate,
               including, but not limited to, roadways, parks and recreation facilities, police
               and fire protection, schools, stormwater drainage systems, water supplies, and
               wastewater and refuse collection.

Second: Commissioner Fidler.

Vote: A roll call was taken with the Commissioners voting 5-to-0 in favor of the motion.
Commissioners Fowler, Squire, Shah, Shirey, and Fidler voted “Yes”. The motion passed
unanimously.
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
February 8, 2024
Page 17

       H.      Public Hearing: City Initiated Draper-Lehi Zoning and Land Use Map
               Amendment Request (Legislative Action).
               On the request of Draper City for a Zoning Land Use Map Amendment to Remove
               1,035.49 acres of property from the Draper City Zoning and Land Use Maps. The
               Properties located at approximately 1950 West 16365 South were part of a
               Municipal Boundary Line Adjustment with Lehi City in 2022 and are no longer
               located within Draper City jurisdiction. Applications 2024-0022-MA, 2024-0023-
               MA.        Staff   Contact:           Jennifer     Jastremsky,   801-576-6328,
               jennifer.jastremsky@draperutah.gov.

Ms. Jastremsky stated that in 2022, the City did a Boundary Line Adjustment with Lehi City and
moved just over 1,000 acres into Lehi City. At that time, they also approved a Conservation
Easement on the 100 acres on the north portion of the 1,000-acre property. The property is located
on the south end of Draper City so the Conservation Easement protects the Maple Hollow
neighborhood in Draper. The rest is in Lehi. When the Boundary Line Adjustment was done, the
City updated the Land Use and Zoning Map, which requires Planning Commission and City
Council review and approval and public hearings. The properties are within the City’s A5 Land
Use Designation and the Community Commercial and Residential Hillside Low-Density Zoning
Designations. The request is to remove the properties from both maps. Because it is within Lehi
City’s jurisdiction, they will provide the zoning and land use designations. This action will not
affect the Conservation Easement that is recorded against the property. Draper City holds the
Conservation Easement and the land is privately owned.

Chair Adams opened the public hearing. There was no public comment. The public hearing was
closed.

Motion: Commissioner Squire moved to forward a POSITIVE recommendation to the City
Council for the Zoning as requested by Draper City for the City-Initiated Draper Lehi
Zoning Map Amendment Application 2024-0022-MA.

Second: Commissioner Fowler.

Vote: A roll call was taken with the Commissioners voting 5-to-0 in favor of the motion.
Commissioners Fowler, Squire, Shah, Shirey, and Fidler voted “Yes”. The motion passed
unanimously.

Motion: Commissioner Shirey moved to forward a POSITIVE recommendation to the City
Council for the Land Use Map Amendment as requested by Draper City for the City-
Initiated Draper Lehi Zoning Map Amendment Application 2024-0023-MA.

Second: Commissioner Fidler.

Vote: A roll call was taken with the Commissioners voting 5-to-0 in favor of the motion.
Commissioners Fowler, Squire, Shah, Shirey, and Fidler voted “Yes”. The motion passed
unanimously.
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
February 8, 2024
Page 18


2.     Adjournment.

Motion: Commissioner Fowler moved to ADJOURN.

Vote: The motion passed with the unanimous consent of the Commission.

The meeting adjourned at 8:14 PM.
