MEMO
To: City Council
From: Todd Taylor
Date: 2024-05-14
Re: Public Hearing: Ordinance #1612


Comments:

This application is a request for approval of a Zoning Text Amendment to the
Southwestern Furniture Commercial Special District (CSD-SWF) zone. The CSD-SWF zone
includes only the Ashley Furniture site, is approximately 3.36 acres in size, and is located
at approximately 13177 S Lone Peak Parkway. The applicant is requesting to add stucco,
exterior insulation and finish systems (EIFS), and exposed concrete as allowed primary
materials in the CSD-SWF zone in addition to those primary materials found in Draper
City Municipal Code (DCMC) Section 9-22-040(F)(3).

The Planning Commission reviewed this request at their April 25, 2024 meeting and
forwarded a positive recommendation on a 5-0 vote.

The findings for approval are as follows:
  1. The proposed amendment is consistent with goals, objectives and policies of the
      City's General Plan;
  2. The proposed amendment furthers the specific purpose statements of the zoning
      ordinance;
  3. The proposed amendment is appropriate given the context of the request and there
      is sufficient justification for a modification to the zoning ordinance;
  4. The proposed amendment will not create a conflict with any other section or part of
      the zoning ordinance or the General Plan;
  5. The potential effects of the proposed amendment have been evaluated and are
      determined not to be detrimental to public health, safety, or welfare and represents
      an overall community benefit; and
  6. The proposed text amendment implements best current, professional practices of
      urban planning, design, and engineering practices.

The findings for denial are as follows:
  1. The proposed amendment is not consistent with goals, objectives and policies of
      the City's General Plan;
  2. The proposed amendment does not further the specific purpose statements of the
      zoning ordinance;
  3. The proposed amendment is not appropriate given the context of the request and
     there is not sufficient justification for a modification to the zoning ordinance;
  4. The proposed amendment could create a conflict with another section or part of the
     zoning ordinance or the General Plan;
  5. The potential effects of the proposed amendment have been determined to be
     detrimental to public health, safety, or welfare or do not represent an overall
     community benefit; and
  6. The proposed text amendment is not consistent with best current, professional
     practices of urban planning, design, and engineering practices.


ATTACHMENTS:

Ordinance No 1612.pdf
ATTACHMENTS:

2024-0050-TA Staff Report -PC Finalized.pdf
