MEMO
To: Planning Commission
From: Todd Taylor
Date: 2024-09-26
Re: Public Hearing: Chick-Fil-A Site Plan and Deviation Requests (Administrative Action)


Comments:

This application is a request for approval of a site plan application with associated deviations for
approximately 1.68 acres located south of Bangerter Highway, at approximately 13673 S. 100 E. The
property is currently zoned CR. The applicant is requesting that a site plan be approved to allow for
the development of the currently vacant site as a fast-food restaurant and deviations from
requirements for building orientation and the number of parking spaces.



Deviation from Building Orientation.
Findings for approval:
   1. The requested deviations are consistent with the purpose and intent of the development
      standards of the applicable zoning district or land use category.
   2. The proposed development satisfies at least three (3) of the criteria listed in DCMC Section 9-
      22-030(B).

Findings for denial:
   1. The requested deviations are not consistent with the purpose and intent of the development
      standards of the applicable zoning district or land use category.
   2. The proposed development does not satisfy at least three (3) of the criteria listed in DCMC
      Section 9-22-030(B).



Deviation from Parking Spaces.

Findings for approval:
  1. Adequate parking will be provided.
  2. The total number of spaces that would otherwise be required for the development is overly
      burdensome for the site specific factors of the application.
  3. Use specific conditions or factors do not provide for compliance with the parking calculation
     requirements outlined in DCMC Section 9-25-100, Table 9-25-1.
  4. Any potential for future expansion or addition to the development will have or will provide
     adequate parking for that expansion or addition.
  5. ADA compliant parking requirements are not proposed for adjustment.
Findings for denial:
   1. Adequate parking will not be provided.
   2. Compliance with the total number of spaces that would otherwise be required in the
     development is not overly burdensome for the site specific factors of the application.
  3. There is not an adequate availability of approved on street or shared parking for all
     associated uses.
  4. Site or use specific conditions or factors do comply with the parking calculation requirements
      outlined in DCMC Section 9-25-100, Table 9-25-1.
  5. Potential future expansion or addition to the development will not be able to provide
      adequate parking for that expansion or addition.



Site Plan.

Findings for approval:
  1. The site plan reflects the full development of the property.
  2. The site plan, with approval of the deviation requests, conforms to applicable standards set
      forth in ordinance, including but not limited to, building heights, setbacks, access points,
     parking, landscaping, and building materials.
  3. The proposed development plans meet the intent, goals, and objectives of the general plan
     and the purpose of the CR zoning district in which the site is located.
  4. The public facilities and services in the area are adequate to support the subject
     development, as required by engineering standards and specifications.
  5. The proposed development plans will comply with the engineering standards found in Titles
      7, 8, 11, 12, 16, and 18 of the DCMC, including traffic, storm water drainage, and utilities
      concerns.

Findings for denial:
  1. One or both of the deviation requests were not approved and as such the site plan does not
      conform to applicable standards set forth in ordinance, including but not limited to, building
      heights, setbacks, access points, parking, landscaping, and building materials.
  2. The proposed development plans do not meet the intent, goals, and objectives of the general
     plan or the purpose of the CR zoning district in which the site is located.
  3. The proposed development plans do not comply with one or more of the engineering
      standards found in Titles 7, 8, 11, 12, 16, and 18 of the DCMC.



ATTACHMENTS:

Chick-Fil-A SP Staff Report_Finalized.pdf
