MEMO
To: City Council
From: Travis DeJong
Date: 2024-07-16
Re: Public Hearing: Providing Local Consent for a Beer-Only Restaurant License for Pork N
Roll Utah Inc dba Pork N Roll.


Comments:

Pork N Roll Utah Inc dba Pork N Roll located at 541 E 12300 S Suite D is seeking Local
Consent for a Beer-Only Restaurant license. They have provided the following:

- Liquor liability insurance.
- Bond payable to the Department of Alcoholic Beverage Services.
- Floor map showing where alcohol is to be served, stored, and consumed.
- Sales tax license.
- A background check conducted by the Bureau of Criminal Identification.

Pork N Roll Utah Inc dba Pork N Roll currently holds a Draper City business license for
their restaurant operations, numbered CBL-0970-2024, expiring May 31, 2025.

The findings for Local Consent approval are as follows:

DCMC 6-4-040 requires that a beer-only restaurant be at least three hundred feet (300')
away from any community location (schools, churches, public libraries, public
playgrounds, and public parks) measured by the shortest pedestrian route taken from
the nearest patron entrance of the restaurant to the property boundary of the
community location.

Pork N Roll Utah Inc dba Pork N Roll has met this requirement.

DCMC 6-4-040 requires that a limited-service restaurant be at least two hundred feet
(200') away from any community location (schools, churches, public libraries, public
playgrounds, and public parks) measured in a straight line from the nearest patron
entrance of the restaurant to the property boundary of the community location.

Pork N Roll Utah Inc dba Pork N Roll has met this requirement.

DCMC 6-4-050 places no restrictions on the number of beer-only restaurant licenses that
can be granted by the City.
ATTACHMENTS:

Business License.docx
ATTACHMENTS:

Sales Tax License.pdf
ATTACHMENTS:

Floor Map.pdf
ATTACHMENTS:

Liquor Liability Insurance.pdf
ATTACHMENTS:

Bond.PDF
ATTACHMENTS:

Pork N Roll Utah Inc Local Consent PowerPoint.pptx
