                                      ORDINANCE NO. 1626

        AN ORDINANCE OF DRAPER CITY AMENDING THE TEXT OF THE LAND USE AND
        DEVELOPMENT CODE (TITLE 9) OF THE DRAPER CITY MUNICIPAL CODE RELATING
        TO STANDARDS FOR ACCESSORY DWELLING UNITS.

       WHEREAS, Utah State law grants to Draper City the authority to regulate uses of property
by enacting land use regulations, among other methods; and

      WHEREAS, it is necessary from time to time to amend certain terms of the Draper City
Municipal Code to comply with statutes enacted by the Utah State Legislature; and

      WHEREAS, the Land Use and Development Code of the Draper City Municipal Code has
been established to provide regulations concerning development activity within the City
Boundaries; and

       WHEREAS, the City Council of Draper City adopted the Land Use and Development Code
to guide development within the City Boundaries; and

        WHEREAS, the City Council of Draper City finds good cause to revise the terms and
provisions of the Land Use and Development Code in response to changes in Utah State Code;
and

       WHEREAS, notice has been issued according to the requirements of the Utah Code
Annotated and Draper City Municipal Code for public hearings before the Planning Commission
and City Council to receive public input regarding the revision of the Land Use and Development
Code; and

       WHEREAS, the Planning Commission and City Council have each held a public hearing to
receive public input regarding the revision of the Land Use and Development Code.

      NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF DRAPER CITY, STATE OF
UTAH, AS FOLLOWS:

        Section 1.       Findings. The City Council of Draper City has made the following findings:
1) The proposed amendment is consistent with goals, objectives and policies of the City's General
Plan; 2) The proposed amendment is appropriate given the context of the request and there is
sufficient justification for a modification to the development codes; 3) The proposed amendment
will not create a conflict with any other section or part of the development codes or the General
Plan; 4) The potential effects of the proposed amendment have been evaluated and are
determined not to be detrimental to public health, safety, or welfare and represents an overall
community benefit; and 5) The proposed text amendment implements best current, professional
practices of urban planning, design, and engineering practices.




Ordinance No. 1626                              1                               City Initiated 2024 ADU
                                                                               Zoning Text Amendment
      Section 2.   Amendment. Sections 9-31-030, 9-31-040, and 9-31-055 of the Land Use
and Development Code are hereby revised to read as set forth in Exhibit A.

       Section 3.      Correction of Editing Errors. The city attorney is authorized to correct any
punctuation, spelling, formatting, clerical, or de minimum errors in Exhibit A prior to submitting
the ordinance for publishing.

        Section 4.    Severability. If any section, part or provision of this Ordinance is held
invalid or unenforceable, such invalidity or unenforceability shall not affect any other portion of
this Ordinance, and all sections, parts and provisions of this Ordinance shall be severable.

       Section 5.     Effective Date. This Ordinance shall become effective immediately upon
publication or posting, or 30 days after final passage, whichever is closer to the date of final
passage.

PASSED AND ADOPTED BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF DRAPER CITY, STATE OF UTAH, ON THE 12th
DAY OF NOVEMBER, 2024.

                                                     DRAPER CITY



                                                     _____________________________
                                                     Mayor Troy K. Walker

ATTEST:



_________________________________
Laura Oscarson, MMC, City Recorder



 VOTE TAKEN:                                           YES                    NO

 Councilmember Green

 Councilmember Johnson

 Councilmember T. Lowery

 Councilmember F. Lowry

 Councilmember Roberts

 Mayor Walker


Ordinance No. 1626                               2                              City Initiated 2024 ADU
                                                                               Zoning Text Amendment
                                            EXHIBIT A

9-31-030: GENERAL REGULATIONS:
…
I.   No ADU or The primary dwelling associated with an ADU shall may be occupied by the owner
     of record as their primary residence and shall not be separately rented, or offered for rent
     leased, hired or loaned unless. If the primary dwelling associated with the ADU ceases to be
     occupied by the owner of record, occupies either the dwelling or the ADU as their primary
     residence shall not be rented, leased, hired or loaned.
…
9-31-040: D-ADU DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS:
The development standards set forth in this section shall apply to each D-ADU:
A. Separate Structure: A D-ADU is a separate structure from the primary single-family dwelling
   contained on the same lot or parcel as the primary single-family dwelling.
…
     4. At least one additional parking stall above the minimum required for the primary single-
        family dwelling shall be provided on site and be reserved for exclusive use by occupants
        of the D-ADU. The parking stall(s) provided for use of the occupants of the D-ADU may not
        be located in tandem with parking stalls designed to serve the primary single-family
        dwelling and shall be accessible from the street by a driveway. Driveways must conform
        to all requirements of section 9-10-075 and other applicable requirements of this title.
        Parking stalls shall be constructed of concrete or asphalt and shall comply with the
        applicable requirements of sections 9-25-070 and 9-25-080.
     5. The total square footage of a D-ADU shall not exceed fifty percent (50%) of the primary
        single-family dwelling's total square footage not including the garage.
…
     7. The architectural design, color pallet, and materials of a D-ADU shall match those of the
        primary single-family dwelling unit.
…
9-31-055: DEVIATIONS:
A. Deviation Authorized: The Planning Commission may approve a A deviation from strict
   compliance with the geographical restrictions of prohibition of I-ADUs on properties located
   within the areas identified on the I-ADU map in Exhibit A of this chapter may be approved by
   the planning commission if all of the following criteria are met and the planning commission
   finds upon finding that:
     1. The lot or parcel on which the primary dwelling is located is at least six twenty-thousand
        square feet (620,000 ft²);
    2. No D-ADU exists on the property;
    3. The proposed I-ADU meets all of the requirements of sections 9-31-030 and 9-31-045,
       including other applicable requirements of this chapter; and
    4. At least two (2) parking stalls meeting the requirements of 9-31-045(B)(2) are provided for
       use by occupants of the I-ADU.
…
