One Bala Plaza, Suite 100, Bala Cynwyd, Pennsylvania 19004
610.617.7900 • Fax 610.617.7940 • PHLY.com

01/26/2024


MS Brands LLC
7218 s 3100 w
west jordan, UT 84084


Re: EV131585



Dear Valued Customer:


Thank you very much for choosing Philadelphia Indemnity Insurance Company
for your insurance needs. Our first class customer service, national presence and A++ (Superior) A.M.
Best financial strength rating have made us the selection by over 150,000 policyholders nationwide. I
realize you have a choice in insurance companies and truly appreciate your business.

I wish you much success this year and look forward to building a mutually beneficial business
partnership which will prosper for years to come. Welcome to PHLY and please visit PHLY.com to learn
more about our Company!



Sincerely,




John W. Glomb, Jr
President & Chief Underwriting Officer
Philadelphia Insurance Companies

JWG/sm
                                                             One Bala Plaza, Suite 100
                                                             Bala Cynwyd, Pennsylvania 19004
                                                             610.617.7900 Fax 610.617.7940
                                                             PHLY.com




Philadelphia Indemnity Insurance Company




Commercial
Lines
Policy




THIS POLICY CONSISTS OF:
- DECLARATIONS
- COMMON POLICY CONDITIONS
- ONE OR MORE COVERAGE PARTS. A COVERAGE PART CONSISTS OF:
• ONE OR MORE COVERAGE FORMS
• APPLICABLE FORMS AND ENDORSEMENTS



                                                                                               BJP-190-1 (12-98)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, we have caused this policy to be executed and attested, and, if required by state
law, this policy shall not be valid unless signed by our authorized representative.




              President & Chief Underwriting Officer                                                    Secretary




                                                                                                                    BJP-190-1 (12-98)
                                                                                              PP 20 20 (02/20)
ALL COMMERCIAL LINES




                   PRIVACY NOTICE FOR COMMERCIAL LINES
           This notice is provided on behalf of Philadelphia Indemnity Insurance Company

PURPOSE OF THIS NOTICE
When you apply for or become an insured under, the insurance policies we issue, we gather certain non-
public information or “NPI” about your business and its employees. We are committed to safeguarding the
NPI you entrust to us. The purpose of this notice is, therefore, to let you know how we collect, use, share and
protect the NPI you provide to us in those contexts.

That means this notice applies only to your business interactions with us involving your application for a quote
or as a policy holder. NPI we may collect from you in connection with other interactions, such as when you or
your employees visit one of our general interest, publicly accessible websites, is governed by the separate
notices and policies we publish on those relevant sites or otherwise provide to you.

When we refer in this notice to your “NPI”, we mean non-public information as that term is generally defined
and applied under the New York Department of Financial Services’ Cybersecurity Regulation, the Gramm-
Leach-Bliley Act and the National Association of Insurance Commissioners’ Data Security Model Law which
includes non-public information about your business, such as financial information, account numbers, loss
history, personal non-public information of your employees including social security number, address or
medical information and any proprietary information we obtain about your business or your customers.

Due to a variety of factors, including certain explicit exemptions they contain, this notice and the NPI we
collect from you in connection with the above-described business interactions is not governed by the EU
General Data Protection Regulation, its related EU and Swiss Privacy Shield or the California Consumer
Privacy Act.

COLLECTING YOUR NPI
In the course of, or as part of a business interaction, we collect your NPI both directly from you, or from the
agents, brokers or other intermediaries acting on your or our behalf, as well as from a variety of additional
sources including:

          ◦ the applications or other forms you provide to us (these forms may contain your name, address,
            social security number, marital status, date of birth, gender, length of employment, prior
            insurance information, home ownership, residency history, vehicle type, vehicle use, or driving
            history)
          ◦ your transactions with us, our other affiliates of the Tokio Marine Group as well as third parties
            (this information would include, for example, premium payment and claims history)
          ◦ consumer or independent reporting agencies (for example your motor vehicle report, property
            inspection report, accident report or claim report)


USING YOUR NPI
We use your NPI in a variety of ways such as creating and issuing a quote, underwriting or otherwise
processing and servicing your insurance policy, handling claims you may have and offering you additional
products and services that we think may be of interest to you as well as for related research and analytics
purposes.

PP 20 20 (02/20)
                                                   Page 1 of 2
                                 © Copyright 2020 Tokio Marine Management, Inc.
                                                                                           PP 20 20 (02/20)

SHARING YOUR NPI
We do not disclose or share any NPI about our customers or former customers outside of the Tokio Marine
Group, except as permitted by law. We do not sell or disclose or share your NPI for third party marketing
purposes. We do, however, share your NPI with third parties that we use to service your account or process
your insurance policy or your claim, or administer related transactions. These third parties may include:

         » your agent, broker or producer
         » independent claims adjusters, investigators, data processors or attorneys
         » persons or organizations that conduct scientific research, including actuarial or underwriting
           studies
         » an insurance support organization or another insurer, to prevent or prosecute fraud or to
           properly underwrite the risk
         » another insurer, if you are involved in an accident with their insured
         » State insurance departments or other governmental or law enforcement authorities, if required
           by law, to protect our legal interests or in cases of suspected fraud or illegal activities
         » a court of law



We also are required to disclose your NPI if we receive a subpoena, search warrant or other court order.

RETAINING YOUR NPI
The NPI we collect is kept in your policy and/or claim files for as long as needed in connection with your
business interactions with you and, if longer, as required by law.

HOW WE PROTECT YOUR NPI
We have adopted and implemented a security and privacy program that includes technical, organizational,
administrative, and other measures designed to protect, as required by applicable law and in accordance
with industry standards, against reasonably anticipated or actual threats to the security of your NPI. Our
security program was created by reference to widely recognized standards such as those published by the
International Standards Organization and National Institute of Standards and Technology. It includes, among
many other things, procedures for assessing the need for, and as appropriate, either employing encryption
and multi-factor authentication or using equivalent compensating controls. As part of our security program,
we have specific incident response and management procedures that are activated whenever we become
aware that your NPI was likely to have been compromised.

CHANGES TO THIS NOTICE
We may amend this notice from time to time and will inform you of these changes as required by law.

QUESTIONS AND CONTACT INFORMATION
If you have any questions about this notice or how we collect, use, share and protect your NPI, please
contact the Chief Privacy Officer of TMNA Services, LLC, who acts as the privacy and data security
administrator for most of the Tokio Marine Group in North America. The Chief Privacy Officer’s contact
information is:

Attn: Privacy Office
TMNA Services, LLC
3 Bala Plaza East, Suite 400
Bala Cynwyd, Pennsylvania 19004
610-227-1300




              PP 20 20 (02/20)
                                                                Page 2 of 2
                                              © Copyright 2020 Tokio Marine Management, Inc.
                                                                                 One Bala Plaza, Suite 100
                                                                                 Bala Cynwyd, Pennsylvania 19004
                                                                                 610.617.7900 Fax 610.617.7940
                                                                                 PHLY.com



                                      Philadelphia Indemnity Insurance Company
                                       COMMON POLICY DECLARATIONS
Policy Number:
EV131585

Named Insured and Mailing Address:                                 Producer:
   MS Brands LLC                                                       109017
   7218 s 3100 w                                                       Groharing Mortensen Independent Insurance Agency LLC dba
   west jordan, UT 84084                                               G & M Independent Insurance
                                                                       2785 W 9000 S Ste 210
                                                                       West Jordan, UT 840885585
                                                                       801-7589047
Policy Period From: 05/04/2024 To: 05/05/2024                                                  at 12:01 A.M. Standard Time at your
                                                                                               mailing address shown above.

Business Description: Special Events                  Underwriter: David Wills
IN RETURN FOR THE PAYMENT OF THE PREMIUM, AND SUBJECT TO ALL THE TERMS OF THIS POLICY, WE AGREE WITH
YOU TO PROVIDE THE INSURANCE AS STATED IN THIS POLICY.
THIS POLICY CONSISTS OF THE FOLLOWING COVERAGE PARTS FOR WHICH A PREMIUM IS INDICATED. THIS PREMIUM
MAY BE SUBJECT TO ADJUSTMENT.
                                                                                                                               PREMIUM
Commercial Property Coverage Part
Commercial General Liability Coverage Part                                                                                           $175.00
Commercial Crime Coverage Part
Commercial Inland Marine Coverage Part
Commercial Auto Coverage Part
Businessowners
Workers Compensation


                                                                                                                      Total: $176.00
Total Includes Federal Terrorism Risk Insurance Act Coverage                                                                   $1.00

FORM (S) AND ENDORSEMENT (S) MADE A PART OF THIS POLICY AT THE TIME OF ISSUE
Refer To Forms Schedule

*Omits applicable Forms and Endorsements if shown in specific Coverage Part/Coverage Form Declarations



         CPD- PIIC (06/14)

                                                      Secretary                            Authorized Representative
Philadelphia Indemnity Insurance Company

Form Schedule - Policy
Policy Number: EV131585


Forms and Endorsements applying to this Coverage Part and made a part of this
policy at time of issue:

Form                      Edition   Description
BJP1901                   1298      Commercial Lines Policy Jacket
PP2020                    0220      Privacy Policy Notice
CPDPIIC                   0614      Common Policy Declarations
Location Schedule         0100      Location Schedule
PICME1                    1009      Crisis Management Enhancement Endorsement
IL0021                    0908      Nuclear Energy Liability Exclusion Endorsement
IL0017                    1198      Common Policy Conditions
IL0266                    0908      Utah Changes - Cancellation and Nonrenewal




                                               Page 1 of 1
                           Philadelphia Indemnity Insurance Company
Locations Schedule
Policy Number: EV131585



Prems.     Bldg.
No.        No.        Address

                      1283 e mike weir dr
0001       0001
                      draper, UT 84020




                                            Page 1 of 1
Philadelphia Indemnity Insurance Company

          COMMERCIAL GENERAL LIABILITY COVERAGE PART DECLARATIONS
Policy Number: EV131585

                                                                                                                          Agent # 109017
See Supplemental Schedule
LIMITS OF INSURANCE
     $      3,000,000 General Aggregate Limit (Other Than Products – Completed Operations)
     $      3,000,000 Products/Completed Operations Aggregate Limit (Any One Person Or Organization)
     $      1,000,000 Personal and Advertising Injury Limit
     $      1,000,000 Each Occurrence Limit
     $        300,000 Rented To You Limit
     $                0 Medical Expense Limit (Any One Person)

FORM OF BUSINESS: LLC

      Business Description: Special Events

      Location of All Premises You Own, Rent or Occupy:               SEE SCHEDULE ATTACHED

AUDIT PERIOD, ANNUAL, UNLESS OTHERWISE STATED: This policy is not subject to premium audit.
                                                                                             Rates               Advanced Premiums
                                                                                                Prod./Comp.               Prod./Comp.
      Classifications               Code No.                Premium Basis          Prem./Ops.                  Prem./Ops
                                                                                                   Ops.                       Ops.




SEE SCHEDULE ATTACHED



                            TOTAL PREMIUM FOR THIS COVERAGE PART:                                             $175.00          $

RETROACTIVE DATE (CG 00 02 ONLY)

This insurance does not apply to "Bodily Injury", "Property Damage", or "Personal and Advertising Injury" which occurs before the
retroactive date, if any, shown below.

Retroactive Date:

FORM (S) AND ENDORSEMENT (S) APPLICABLE TO THIS COVERAGE PART: Refer To Forms Schedule




                                                                     Countersignature Date         Authorized Representative
Philadelphia Indemnity Insurance Company

Form Schedule – General Liability
Policy Number: EV131585

Forms and Endorsements applying to this Coverage Part and made a part of this policy at
time of issue:
Form           Edition Description
Gen Liab Dec   1004   Commercial General Liability Coverage Part Declaration
Gen Liab
               0100   General Liability Schedule
Schedule
CG0001         0413   Commercial General Liability Coverage Form
CG2100         0798   Exclusion - All Hazards in Connection With Designated Premises
CG2101         1185   Exclusion - Athletic or Sports Participants
                      Exclusion - Access or Disclosure of Confidential or Personal Information and Data-Related Liability
CG2106         0514
                      With Limited Bodily Injury Exception
CG2109         0615   Exclusion - Unmanned Aircraft
CG2116         0413   Exclusion - Designated Professional Services
CG2132         0509   Communicable Disease Exclusion
CG2135         1001   Exclusion - Coverage C - Medical Payments
CG2147         1207   Employment-Related Practices Exclusion
CG2167         1204   Fungi or Bacteria Exclusion
CG2402         1204   Binding Arbitration
PIACL001       0120   Absolute Cyber Liability and Electronic Exclusion
PIAS005        1113   Limitation of Coverage to a Specified Event and Event Date
PIAS006        0404   Exclusion - Pyrotechnicians/Fireworks
PIAS007        0404   Exclusion - Performer(s)
                      Additional Insured: Owners and/or Lessors of Premises, Lessors of Leased Equipment, Sponsors
PIAS010        0404
                      or Co-Promoters
PIAS013        0404   Exclusion - Miscellaneous Activities and Devices
PIAS014        0404   Earned Premium Endorsement (Fully Earned Premium)
PIGL001        0894   Exclusion - Lead Liability
PIGL002        0894   Exclusion - Asbestos Liability
PISAM006       0117   Abuse or Molestation Exclusion




                                                      Page 1 of 1
       Philadelphia Indemnity Insurance Company

                   COMMERCIAL GENERAL LIABILITY COVERAGE PART
                                     SUPPLEMENTAL SCHEDULE
    Policy Number: EV131585




                                                                  Rates                     Advance Premiums
     Classifications     Code No.    Premium Basis   Prem./Ops.    Prod./Comp. Ops.   Prem./Ops.   Prod./Comp. Ops.
PREM NO. 001
UT ATTENDEES            63218       500 ATTENDANT    $ 0.15



ADDITIONAL INSURED




TOTAL PREMIUM                                                                         $ 176.00
                                                                                           PI-CME-1 (10/09)




     THIS ENDORSEMENT CHANGES THE POLICY. PLEASE READ IT CAREFULLY.


           CRISIS MANAGEMENT ENHANCEMENT ENDORSEMENT

Unless otherwise stated herein, the terms, conditions, exclusions and other limitations set forth in this
endorsement are solely applicable to coverage afforded by this endorsement, and the policy is amended
as follows:

Solely for the purpose of this endorsement: 1) The words “you” and “your” refer to the Named Insured
shown in the Declarations, and any other person or organization qualifying as a Named Insured under
this policy. 2) The words “we,” “us” and “our” refer to the company providing this insurance.

I.     SCHEDULE OF ADDITIONAL COVERAGE AND LIMITS

       The following is the Limit of Liability provided by this endorsement. This endorsement is subject to
       the provisions of the policy to which it is attached.

        Crisis Management Expense                                                                  $25,000

II.    CONDITIONS

       A. Applicability of Coverage

           Coverage provided by your policy and any endorsements attached thereto is amended by this
           endorsement where applicable. All other terms and conditions of the policy or coverage part to
           which this endorsement is attached remain unchanged.

       B. Limits of Liability or Limits of Insurance

           When coverage is provided by this endorsement and any other coverage form or endorsement
           attached to this policy, we will pay only for the amount of covered loss or damage in excess of
           the amount due from that other insurance, whether you can collect on it or not. But we will not
           pay more than the applicable Limit of Liability or Limit of Insurance.

       C. Claim Expenses

           Coverages provided herein are not applicable to the generation of claim adjustment costs by
           you; such as fees you may incur by retaining a public adjuster or appraiser.

III.   ADDITIONAL COVERAGES

       A. We will reimburse you for “crisis management emergency response expenses” incurred
          because of an “incident” giving rise to a “crisis” to which this insurance applies. The amount of
          such reimbursement is limited as described in Section II. CONDITIONS, B. Limits of Liability
          or Limits of Insurance. No other obligation or liability to pay sums or perform acts or services
          is covered.

       B. We will reimburse only those “crisis management emergency response expenses” which are
          incurred during the policy period as shown in the Declarations of the policy to which this
          coverage is attached and reported to us within six (6) months of the date the “crisis” was
          initiated.



                                               Page 1 of 2
                                                                                      PI-CME-1 (10/09)


IV.   DEFINITIONS

      A. “Crisis” means the public announcement that an “incident” occurred on your premises or at an
         event sponsored by you.

      B. “Crisis management emergency response expenses” mean those expenses incurred for
         services provided by a “crisis management firm.” However, “crisis management emergency
         response expenses” shall not include compensation, fees, benefits, overhead, charges or
         expenses of any insured or any of your employees, nor shall “crisis management emergency
         response expenses” include any expenses that are payable on your behalf or reimbursable to
         you under any other valid and collectible insurance.

      C. “Crisis management firm” means any service provider you hire that is acceptable to us. Our
         consent will not be unreasonably withheld.

      D. “Incident” means an accident or other event, including the accidental discharge of pollutants,
         resulting in death or serious bodily injury to three or more persons.

      E. “Serious bodily injury” means any injury to a person that creates a substantial risk of death,
         serious permanent disfigurement, or protracted loss or impairment of the function of any bodily
         member or organ.




                                            Page 2 of 2
                                                                                                  IL 00 21 09 08

     THIS ENDORSEMENT CHANGES THE POLICY. PLEASE READ IT CAREFULLY.

                 NUCLEAR ENERGY LIABILITY EXCLUSION
                           ENDORSEMENT
                                                 (Broad Form)

This endorsement modifies insurance provided under the following:

   COMMERCIAL AUTOMOBILE COVERAGE PART
   COMMERCIAL GENERAL LIABILITY COVERAGE PART
   FARM COVERAGE PART
   LIQUOR LIABILITY COVERAGE PART
   MEDICAL PROFESSIONAL LIABILITY COVERAGE PART
   OWNERS AND CONTRACTORS PROTECTIVE LIABILITY COVERAGE PART
   POLLUTION LIABILITY COVERAGE PART
   PRODUCTS/COMPLETED OPERATIONS LIABILITY COVERAGE PART
   RAILROAD PROTECTIVE LIABILITY COVERAGE PART
   UNDERGROUND STORAGE TANK POLICY

1. The insurance does not apply:                             C. Under any Liability Coverage, to "bodily injury"
   A. Under any Liability Coverage, to "bodily injury"          or "property damage" resulting from "hazard-
      or "property damage":                                     ous properties" of "nuclear material", if:
     (1) With respect to which an "insured" under              (1) The "nuclear material" (a) is at any "nuclear
         the policy is also an insured under a nu-                 facility" owned by, or operated by or on be-
         clear energy liability policy issued by Nu-               half of, an "insured" or (b) has been dis-
         clear Energy Liability Insurance Associa-                 charged or dispersed therefrom;
         tion, Mutual Atomic Energy Liability                  (2) The "nuclear material" is contained in
         Underwriters, Nuclear Insurance Associa-                  "spent fuel" or "waste" at any time pos-
         tion of Canada or any of their successors,                sessed, handled, used, processed, stored,
         or would be an insured under any such pol-                transported or disposed of, by or on behalf
         icy but for its termination upon exhaustion               of an "insured"; or
         of its limit of liability; or                         (3) The "bodily injury" or "property damage"
     (2) Resulting from the "hazardous properties"                 arises out of the furnishing by an "insured"
         of "nuclear material" and with respect to                 of services, materials, parts or equipment in
         which (a) any person or organization is re-               connection with the planning, construction,
         quired to maintain financial protection pur-              maintenance, operation or use of any "nu-
         suant to the Atomic Energy Act of 1954, or                clear facility", but if such facility is located
         any law amendatory thereof, or (b) the "in-               within the United States of America, its terri-
         sured" is, or had this policy not been issued             tories or possessions or Canada, this ex-
         would be, entitled to indemnity from the                  clusion (3) applies only to "property dam-
         United States of America, or any agency                   age" to such "nuclear facility" and any
         thereof, under any agreement entered into                 property thereat.
         by the United States of America, or any          2. As used in this endorsement:
         agency thereof, with any person or organi-
         zation.                                             "Hazardous properties" includes radioactive, toxic
                                                             or explosive properties.
   B. Under any Medical Payments coverage, to
      expenses incurred with respect to "bodily in-          "Nuclear material" means "source material", "spe-
      jury" resulting from the "hazardous properties"        cial nuclear material" or "by-product material".
      of "nuclear material" and arising out of the op-
      eration of a "nuclear facility" by any person or
      organization.




IL 00 21 09 08                            © ISO Properties, Inc., 2007                                Page 1 of 2     
   "Source material", "special nuclear material", and             (c) Any equipment or device used for the proc-
   "by-product material" have the meanings given                      essing, fabricating or alloying of "special
   them in the Atomic Energy Act of 1954 or in any                    nuclear material" if at any time the total
   law amendatory thereof.                                            amount of such material in the custody of
   "Spent fuel" means any fuel element or fuel com-                   the "insured" at the premises where such
   ponent, solid or liquid, which has been used or ex-                equipment or device is located consists of
   posed to radiation in a "nuclear reactor".                         or contains more than 25 grams of pluto-
                                                                      nium or uranium 233 or any combination
   "Waste" means any waste material (a) containing                    thereof, or more than 250 grams of uranium
   "by-product material" other than the tailings or                   235;
   wastes produced by the extraction or concentra-
   tion of uranium or thorium from any ore processed              (d) Any structure, basin, excavation, premises
   primarily for its "source material" content, and (b)               or place prepared or used for the storage or
   resulting from the operation by any person or or-                  disposal of "waste";
   ganization of any "nuclear facility" included under         and includes the site on which any of the foregoing
   the first two paragraphs of the definition of "nu-          is located, all operations conducted on such site
   clear facility".                                            and all premises used for such operations.
   "Nuclear facility" means:                                   "Nuclear reactor" means any apparatus designed
      (a) Any "nuclear reactor";                               or used to sustain nuclear fission in a self-
                                                               supporting chain reaction or to contain a critical
      (b) Any equipment or device designed or used             mass of fissionable material.
           for (1) separating the isotopes of uranium or
           plutonium, (2) processing or utilizing "spent       "Property damage" includes all forms of radioac-
           fuel", or (3) handling, processing or packag-       tive contamination of property.
           ing "waste";




Page 2 of 2                                 © ISO Properties, Inc., 2007                           IL 00 21 09 08    
                                                                                                    IL 00 17 11 98


                           COMMON POLICY CONDITIONS
All Coverage Parts included in this policy are subject to the following conditions.

A. Cancellation                                                     b. Give you reports on the conditions we find;
   1. The first Named Insured shown in the Declara-                     and
       tions may cancel this policy by mailing or de-               c. Recommend changes.
       livering to us advance written notice of cancel-         2. We are not obligated to make any inspections,
       lation.                                                      surveys, reports or recommendations and any
   2. We may cancel this policy by mailing or deliv-                such actions we do undertake relate only to in-
       ering to the first Named Insured written notice              surability and the premiums to be charged. We
       of cancellation at least:                                    do not make safety inspections. We do not un-
       a. 10 days before the effective date of cancel-              dertake to perform the duty of any person or
           lation if we cancel for nonpayment of pre-               organization to provide for the health or safety
           mium; or                                                 of workers or the public. And we do not warrant
                                                                    that conditions:
       b. 30 days before the effective date of cancel-
           lation if we cancel for any other reason.                a. Are safe or healthful; or
   3. We will mail or deliver our notice to the first               b. Comply with laws, regulations, codes or
       Named Insured's last mailing address known to                    standards.
       us.                                                      3. Paragraphs 1. and 2. of this condition apply
   4. Notice of cancellation will state the effective               not only to us, but also to any rating, advisory,
       date of cancellation. The policy period will end             rate service or similar organization which
       on that date.                                                makes insurance inspections, surveys, reports
                                                                    or recommendations.
   5. If this policy is cancelled, we will send the first
       Named Insured any premium refund due. If we              4. Paragraph 2. of this condition does not apply
       cancel, the refund will be pro rata. If the first            to any inspections, surveys, reports or recom-
       Named Insured cancels, the refund may be                     mendations we may make relative to certifica-
       less than pro rata. The cancellation will be ef-             tion, under state or municipal statutes, ordi-
       fective even if we have not made or offered a                nances or regulations, of boilers, pressure ves-
       refund.                                                      sels or elevators.
   6. If notice is mailed, proof of mailing will be suf-     E. Premiums
       ficient proof of notice.                                 The first Named Insured shown in the Declara-
B. Changes                                                      tions:
   This policy contains all the agreements between              1. Is responsible for the payment of all premiums;
   you and us concerning the insurance afforded.                    and
   The first Named Insured shown in the Declara-                2. Will be the payee for any return premiums we
   tions is authorized to make changes in the terms                 pay.
   of this policy with our consent. This policy's terms      F. Transfer Of Your Rights And Duties Under
   can be amended or waived only by endorsement                 This Policy
   issued by us and made a part of this policy.
                                                                Your rights and duties under this policy may not
C. Examination Of Your Books And Records                        be transferred without our written consent except
   We may examine and audit your books and rec-                 in the case of death of an individual named in-
   ords as they relate to this policy at any time during        sured.
   the policy period and up to three years afterward.           If you die, your rights and duties will be trans-
D. Inspections And Surveys                                      ferred to your legal representative but only while
   1. We have the right to:                                     acting within the scope of duties as your legal rep-
                                                                resentative. Until your legal representative is ap-
       a. Make inspections and surveys at any time;             pointed, anyone having proper temporary custody
                                                                of your property will have your rights and duties
                                                                but only with respect to that property.




IL 00 17 11 98                   Copyright, Insurance Services Office, Inc., 1998                       Page 1 of 1     o
                                                                           COMMERCIAL GENERAL LIABILITY
                                                                                          CG 00 01 04 13

   COMMERCIAL GENERAL LIABILITY COVERAGE FORM
Various provisions in this policy restrict coverage.             (2) The "bodily injury" or "property damage"
Read the entire policy carefully to determine rights,                occurs during the policy period; and
duties and what is and is not covered.                           (3) Prior to the policy period, no insured listed
Throughout this policy the words "you" and "your"                    under Paragraph 1. of Section II – Who Is
refer to the Named Insured shown in the Declarations,                An Insured and no "employee" authorized
and any other person or organization qualifying as a                 by you to give or receive notice of an
Named Insured under this policy. The words "we",                     "occurrence" or claim, knew that the "bodily
"us" and "our" refer to the company providing this                   injury" or "property damage" had occurred,
insurance.                                                           in whole or in part. If such a listed insured
The word "insured" means any person or organization                  or authorized "employee" knew, prior to the
qualifying as such under Section II – Who Is An                      policy period, that the "bodily injury" or
Insured.                                                             "property damage" occurred, then any
                                                                     continuation, change or resumption of such
Other words and phrases that appear in quotation                     "bodily injury" or "property damage" during
marks have special meaning. Refer to Section V –                     or after the policy period will be deemed to
Definitions.                                                         have been known prior to the policy period.
SECTION I – COVERAGES                                         c. "Bodily injury" or "property damage" which
COVERAGE A – BODILY INJURY AND PROPERTY                          occurs during the policy period and was not,
DAMAGE LIABILITY                                                 prior to the policy period, known to have
                                                                 occurred by any insured listed under
1. Insuring Agreement
                                                                 Paragraph 1. of Section II – Who Is An Insured
   a. We will pay those sums that the insured                    or any "employee" authorized by you to give or
      becomes legally obligated to pay as damages                receive notice of an "occurrence" or claim,
      because of "bodily injury" or "property damage"            includes any continuation, change or
      to which this insurance applies. We will have              resumption of that "bodily injury" or "property
      the right and duty to defend the insured against           damage" after the end of the policy period.
      any "suit" seeking those damages. However,
      we will have no duty to defend the insured              d. "Bodily injury" or "property damage" will be
      against any "suit" seeking damages for "bodily             deemed to have been known to have occurred
      injury" or "property damage" to which this                 at the earliest time when any insured listed
                                                                 under Paragraph 1. of Section II – Who Is An
      insurance does not apply. We may, at our
      discretion, investigate any "occurrence" and               Insured or any "employee" authorized by you to
      settle any claim or "suit" that may result. But:           give or receive notice of an "occurrence" or
                                                                 claim:
      (1) The amount we will pay for damages is
          limited as described in Section III – Limits           (1) Reports all, or any part, of the "bodily injury"
          Of Insurance; and                                          or "property damage" to us or any other
                                                                     insurer;
      (2) Our right and duty to defend ends when we
          have used up the applicable limit of                   (2) Receives a written or verbal demand or
                                                                     claim for damages because of the "bodily
          insurance in the payment of judgments or
          settlements under Coverages A or B or                      injury" or "property damage"; or
          medical expenses under Coverage C.                     (3) Becomes aware by any other means that
                                                                     "bodily injury" or "property damage" has
      No other obligation or liability to pay sums or
                                                                     occurred or has begun to occur.
      perform acts or services is covered unless
      explicitly provided for under Supplementary             e. Damages because of "bodily injury" include
      Payments – Coverages A and B.                              damages claimed by any person or
                                                                 organization for care, loss of services or death
   b. This insurance applies to "bodily injury" and
                                                                 resulting at any time from the "bodily injury".
      "property damage" only if:
     (1) The "bodily injury" or "property damage" is
         caused by an "occurrence" that takes place
         in the "coverage territory";




CG 00 01 04 13                       © Insurance Services Office, Inc., 2012                          Page 1 of 16
2. Exclusions                                                     This exclusion applies even if the claims
   This insurance does not apply to:                              against any insured allege negligence or other
                                                                  wrongdoing in:
   a. Expected Or Intended Injury
                                                                     (a) The supervision, hiring, employment,
      "Bodily injury" or "property damage" expected                       training or monitoring of others by that
      or intended from the standpoint of the insured.                     insured; or
      This exclusion does not apply to "bodily injury"
      resulting from the use of reasonable force to                  (b) Providing       or    failing  to    provide
      protect persons or property.                                        transportation with respect to any
                                                                          person that may be under the influence
   b. Contractual Liability                                               of alcohol;
      "Bodily injury" or "property damage" for which              if the "occurrence" which caused the "bodily
      the insured is obligated to pay damages by                  injury" or "property damage", involved that
      reason of the assumption of liability in a                  which is described in Paragraph (1), (2) or (3)
      contract or agreement. This exclusion does not              above.
      apply to liability for damages:
                                                                  However, this exclusion applies only if you are
     (1) That the insured would have in the absence               in the business of manufacturing, distributing,
          of the contract or agreement; or                        selling, serving or furnishing alcoholic
     (2) Assumed in a contract or agreement that is               beverages. For the purposes of this exclusion,
         an "insured contract", provided the "bodily              permitting a person to bring alcoholic
         injury" or "property damage" occurs                      beverages on your premises, for consumption
         subsequent to the execution of the contract              on your premises, whether or not a fee is
         or agreement. Solely for the purposes of                 charged or a license is required for such
         liability assumed in an "insured contract",              activity, is not by itself considered the business
         reasonable attorneys' fees and necessary                 of selling, serving or furnishing alcoholic
         litigation expenses incurred by or for a party           beverages.
         other than an insured are deemed to be                d. Workers' Compensation And Similar Laws
         damages because of "bodily injury" or
         "property damage", provided:                             Any obligation of the insured under a workers'
                                                                  compensation,          disability    benefits    or
        (a) Liability to such party for, or for the cost          unemployment compensation law or any
              of, that party's defense has also been              similar law.
              assumed in the same "insured contract";
              and                                              e. Employer's Liability
        (b) Such attorneys' fees and litigation                   "Bodily injury" to:
              expenses are for defense of that party             (1) An "employee" of the insured arising out of
              against a civil or alternative dispute                  and in the course of:
              resolution proceeding in which damages                 (a) Employment by the insured; or
              to which this insurance applies are
              alleged.                                               (b) Performing duties related to the conduct
                                                                         of the insured's business; or
   c. Liquor Liability
                                                                  (2) The spouse, child, parent, brother or sister
      "Bodily injury" or "property damage" for which                  of that "employee" as a consequence of
      any insured may be held liable by reason of:                    Paragraph (1) above.
     (1) Causing or contributing to the intoxication of           This exclusion applies whether the insured
         any person;                                              may be liable as an employer or in any other
     (2) The furnishing of alcoholic beverages to a               capacity and to any obligation to share
         person under the legal drinking age or                   damages with or repay someone else who
         under the influence of alcohol; or                       must pay damages because of the injury.
     (3) Any statute, ordinance or regulation relating            This exclusion does not apply to liability
         to the sale, gift, distribution or use of                assumed by the insured under an "insured
         alcoholic beverages.                                     contract".




Page 2 of 16                          © Insurance Services Office, Inc., 2012                      CG 00 01 04 13
   f. Pollution                                                    (d) At or from any premises, site or location
     (1) "Bodily injury" or "property damage" arising                  on which any insured or any contractors
         out of the actual, alleged or threatened                      or subcontractors working directly or
         discharge, dispersal, seepage, migration,                     indirectly on any insured's behalf are
         release or escape of "pollutants":                            performing operations if the "pollutants"
                                                                       are brought on or to the premises, site
        (a) At or from any premises, site or location                  or location in connection with such
            which is or was at any time owned or                       operations by such insured, contractor
            occupied by, or rented or loaned to, any                   or    subcontractor.   However,      this
            insured. However, this subparagraph                        subparagraph does not apply to:
            does not apply to:
                                                                        (i) "Bodily injury" or "property damage"
            (i) "Bodily injury" if sustained within a                       arising out of the escape of fuels,
                building and caused by smoke,                               lubricants or other operating fluids
                fumes, vapor or soot produced by or                         which are needed to perform the
                originating from equipment that is                          normal electrical, hydraulic or
                used to heat, cool or dehumidify the                        mechanical functions necessary for
                building, or equipment that is used to                      the operation of "mobile equipment"
                heat water for personal use, by the                         or its parts, if such fuels, lubricants
                building's occupants or their guests;                       or other operating fluids escape from
           (ii) "Bodily injury" or "property damage"                        a vehicle part designed to hold, store
                for which you may be held liable, if                        or receive them. This exception does
                you are a contractor and the owner                          not apply if the "bodily injury" or
                or lessee of such premises, site or                         "property damage" arises out of the
                location has been added to your                             intentional discharge, dispersal or
                policy as an additional insured with                        release of the fuels, lubricants or
                respect to your ongoing operations                          other operating fluids, or if such
                performed for that additional insured                       fuels, lubricants or other operating
                at that premises, site or location and                      fluids are brought on or to the
                such premises, site or location is not                      premises, site or location with the
                and never was owned or occupied                             intent that they be discharged,
                by, or rented or loaned to, any                             dispersed or released as part of the
                insured, other than that additional                         operations being performed by such
                insured; or                                                 insured, contractor or subcontractor;
           (iii) "Bodily injury" or "property damage"                  (ii) "Bodily injury" or "property damage"
                 arising out of heat, smoke or fumes                        sustained within a building and
                 from a "hostile fire";                                     caused by the release of gases,
        (b) At or from any premises, site or location                       fumes or vapors from materials
             which is or was at any time used by or                         brought into that building in
                                                                            connection with operations being
             for any insured or others for the
             handling, storage, disposal, processing                        performed by you or on your behalf
             or treatment of waste;                                         by a contractor or subcontractor; or
                                                                      (iii) "Bodily injury" or "property damage"
        (c) Which are or were at any time
                                                                            arising out of heat, smoke or fumes
            transported, handled, stored, treated,
            disposed of, or processed as waste by                           from a "hostile fire".
            or for:                                                (e) At or from any premises, site or location
                                                                        on which any insured or any contractors
            (i) Any insured; or
                                                                        or subcontractors working directly or
           (ii) Any person or organization for whom                     indirectly on any insured's behalf are
                you may be legally responsible; or                      performing operations if the operations
                                                                        are to test for, monitor, clean up,
                                                                        remove, contain, treat, detoxify or
                                                                        neutralize, or in any way respond to, or
                                                                        assess the effects of, "pollutants".




CG 00 01 04 13                      © Insurance Services Office, Inc., 2012                         Page 3 of 16
     (2) Any loss, cost or expense arising out of                (5) "Bodily injury" or "property damage" arising
         any:                                                          out of:
        (a) Request, demand, order or statutory or                    (a) The operation of machinery or
            regulatory requirement that any insured                       equipment that is attached to, or part of,
            or others test for, monitor, clean up,                        a land vehicle that would qualify under
            remove, contain, treat, detoxify or                           the definition of "mobile equipment" if it
            neutralize, or in any way respond to, or                      were not subject to a compulsory or
            assess the effects of, "pollutants"; or                       financial responsibility law or other
        (b) Claim or suit by or on behalf of a                            motor vehicle insurance law where it is
            governmental authority for damages                            licensed or principally garaged; or
            because of testing for, monitoring,                       (b) The operation of any of the machinery
            cleaning up, removing, containing,                            or equipment listed in Paragraph f.(2) or
            treating, detoxifying or neutralizing, or in                  f.(3) of the definition of "mobile
            any way responding to, or assessing the                       equipment".
            effects of, "pollutants".                          h. Mobile Equipment
         However, this paragraph does not apply to                "Bodily injury" or "property damage" arising out
         liability for damages because of "property               of:
         damage" that the insured would have in the
         absence of such request, demand, order or                (1) The transportation of "mobile equipment" by
         statutory or regulatory requirement, or such                 an "auto" owned or operated by or rented or
         claim or "suit" by or on behalf of a                         loaned to any insured; or
         governmental authority.                                  (2) The use of "mobile equipment" in, or while
   g. Aircraft, Auto Or Watercraft                                    in practice for, or while being prepared for,
                                                                      any prearranged racing, speed, demolition,
      "Bodily injury" or "property damage" arising out                or stunting activity.
      of the ownership, maintenance, use or
      entrustment to others of any aircraft, "auto" or          i. War
      watercraft owned or operated by or rented or                 "Bodily injury" or "property damage", however
      loaned to any insured. Use includes operation                caused, arising, directly or indirectly, out of:
      and "loading or unloading".
                                                                  (1) War, including undeclared or civil war;
      This exclusion applies even if the claims
                                                                  (2) Warlike action by a military force, including
      against any insured allege negligence or other
                                                                      action in hindering or defending against an
      wrongdoing in the supervision, hiring,                          actual or expected attack, by any
      employment, training or monitoring of others by                 government, sovereign or other authority
      that insured, if the "occurrence" which caused
                                                                      using military personnel or other agents; or
      the "bodily injury" or "property damage"
      involved the ownership, maintenance, use or                 (3) Insurrection, rebellion, revolution, usurped
      entrustment to others of any aircraft, "auto" or                power, or action taken by governmental
      watercraft that is owned or operated by or                      authority in hindering or defending against
      rented or loaned to any insured.                                any of these.
      This exclusion does not apply to:                         j. Damage To Property
     (1) A watercraft while ashore on premises you                 "Property damage" to:
         own or rent;                                             (1) Property you own, rent, or occupy, including
     (2) A watercraft you do not own that is:                         any costs or expenses incurred by you, or
                                                                      any other person, organization or entity, for
        (a) Less than 26 feet long; and                               repair,     replacement,       enhancement,
        (b) Not being used to carry persons or                        restoration or maintenance of such property
             property for a charge;                                   for any reason, including prevention of
     (3) Parking an "auto" on, or on the ways next                    injury to a person or damage to another's
         to, premises you own or rent, provided the                   property;
         "auto" is not owned by or rented or loaned               (2) Premises you sell, give away or abandon, if
         to you or the insured;                                       the "property damage" arises out of any
     (4) Liability assumed under any "insured                         part of those premises;
         contract" for the ownership, maintenance or              (3) Property loaned to you;
         use of aircraft or watercraft; or




Page 4 of 16                          © Insurance Services Office, Inc., 2012                      CG 00 01 04 13
     (4) Personal property in the care, custody or                 This exclusion does not apply to the loss of use
         control of the insured;                                   of other property arising out of sudden and
     (5) That particular part of real property on                  accidental physical injury to "your product" or
         which you or any contractors or                           "your work" after it has been put to its intended
         subcontractors working directly or indirectly             use.
         on your behalf are performing operations, if           n. Recall Of Products, Work Or Impaired
         the "property damage" arises out of those                 Property
         operations; or                                            Damages claimed for any loss, cost or
     (6) That particular part of any property that                 expense incurred by you or others for the loss
         must be restored, repaired or replaced                    of use, withdrawal, recall, inspection, repair,
         because "your work" was incorrectly                       replacement, adjustment, removal or disposal
         performed on it.                                          of:
      Paragraphs (1), (3) and (4) of this exclusion do            (1) "Your product";
      not apply to "property damage" (other than                  (2) "Your work"; or
      damage by fire) to premises, including the
      contents of such premises, rented to you for a              (3) "Impaired property";
      period of seven or fewer consecutive days. A                 if such product, work, or property is withdrawn
      separate limit of insurance applies to Damage                or recalled from the market or from use by any
      To Premises Rented To You as described in                    person or organization because of a known or
      Section III – Limits Of Insurance.                           suspected defect, deficiency, inadequacy or
      Paragraph (2) of this exclusion does not apply               dangerous condition in it.
      if the premises are "your work" and were never            o. Personal And Advertising Injury
      occupied, rented or held for rental by you.
                                                                   "Bodily injury" arising out of "personal and
      Paragraphs (3), (4), (5) and (6) of this                     advertising injury".
      exclusion do not apply to liability assumed               p. Electronic Data
      under a sidetrack agreement.
                                                                   Damages arising out of the loss of, loss of use
      Paragraph (6) of this exclusion does not apply               of, damage to, corruption of, inability to access,
      to "property damage" included in the "products-
                                                                   or inability to manipulate electronic data.
      completed operations hazard".
                                                                   However, this exclusion does not apply to
  k. Damage To Your Product                                        liability for damages because of "bodily injury".
      "Property damage" to "your product" arising out              As used in this exclusion, electronic data
      of it or any part of it.                                     means information, facts or programs stored as
   l. Damage To Your Work                                          or on, created or used on, or transmitted to or
      "Property damage" to "your work" arising out of              from computer software, including systems and
      it or any part of it and included in the "products-          applications software, hard or floppy disks, CD-
      completed operations hazard".                                ROMs, tapes, drives, cells, data processing
                                                                   devices or any other media which are used
      This exclusion does not apply if the damaged                 with electronically controlled equipment.
      work or the work out of which the damage
      arises was performed on your behalf by a                  q. Recording And Distribution Of Material Or
      subcontractor.                                               Information In Violation Of Law
  m. Damage To Impaired Property Or Property                       "Bodily injury" or "property damage" arising
      Not Physically Injured                                       directly or indirectly out of any action or
                                                                   omission that violates or is alleged to violate:
      "Property damage" to "impaired property" or
      property that has not been physically injured,               (1) The Telephone Consumer Protection Act
      arising out of:                                                  (TCPA), including any amendment of or
                                                                       addition to such law;
     (1) A defect, deficiency, inadequacy or
           dangerous condition in "your product" or                (2) The CAN-SPAM Act of 2003, including any
           "your work"; or                                             amendment of or addition to such law;
     (2) A delay or failure by you or anyone acting                (3) The Fair Credit Reporting Act (FCRA), and
         on your behalf to perform a contract or                       any amendment of or addition to such law,
         agreement in accordance with its terms.                       including the Fair and Accurate Credit
                                                                       Transactions Act (FACTA); or




CG 00 01 04 13                         © Insurance Services Office, Inc., 2012                        Page 5 of 16
      (4) Any federal, state or local statute,                2. Exclusions
           ordinance or regulation, other than the               This insurance does not apply to:
           TCPA, CAN-SPAM Act of 2003 or FCRA
           and their amendments and additions, that              a. Knowing Violation Of Rights Of Another
           addresses, prohibits, or limits the printing,            "Personal and advertising injury" caused by or
           dissemination,       disposal,      collecting,          at the direction of the insured with the
           recording,        sending,       transmitting,           knowledge that the act would violate the rights
           communicating or distribution of material or             of another and would inflict "personal and
           information.                                             advertising injury".
   Exclusions c. through n. do not apply to damage               b. Material Published With Knowledge Of
   by fire to premises while rented to you or                       Falsity
   temporarily occupied by you with permission of the               "Personal and advertising injury" arising out of
   owner. A separate limit of insurance applies to this             oral or written publication, in any manner, of
   coverage as described in Section III – Limits Of
                                                                    material, if done by or at the direction of the
   Insurance.                                                       insured with knowledge of its falsity.
COVERAGE B – PERSONAL AND ADVERTISING                            c. Material Published Prior To Policy Period
INJURY LIABILITY
                                                                    "Personal and advertising injury" arising out of
1. Insuring Agreement                                               oral or written publication, in any manner, of
   a. We will pay those sums that the insured                       material whose first publication took place
       becomes legally obligated to pay as damages                  before the beginning of the policy period.
       because of "personal and advertising injury" to           d. Criminal Acts
       which this insurance applies. We will have the
       right and duty to defend the insured against                 "Personal and advertising injury" arising out of
       any "suit" seeking those damages. However,                   a criminal act committed by or at the direction
       we will have no duty to defend the insured                   of the insured.
       against any "suit" seeking damages for                    e. Contractual Liability
       "personal and advertising injury" to which this
       insurance does not apply. We may, at our                     "Personal and advertising injury" for which the
       discretion, investigate any offense and settle               insured has assumed liability in a contract or
                                                                    agreement. This exclusion does not apply to
       any claim or "suit" that may result. But:
                                                                    liability for damages that the insured would
      (1) The amount we will pay for damages is                     have in the absence of the contract or
           limited as described in Section III – Limits             agreement.
           Of Insurance; and
                                                                  f. Breach Of Contract
     (2) Our right and duty to defend end when we
          have used up the applicable limit of                       "Personal and advertising injury" arising out of
          insurance in the payment of judgments or                   a breach of contract, except an implied
          settlements under Coverages A or B or                      contract to use another's advertising idea in
                                                                     your "advertisement".
          medical expenses under Coverage C.
      No other obligation or liability to pay sums or            g. Quality Or Performance Of Goods – Failure
      perform acts or services is covered unless                    To Conform To Statements
      explicitly provided for under Supplementary                   "Personal and advertising injury" arising out of
      Payments – Coverages A and B.                                 the failure of goods, products or services to
                                                                    conform with any statement of quality or
   b. This insurance applies to "personal and
      advertising injury" caused by an offense arising              performance made in your "advertisement".
      out of your business but only if the offense was           h. Wrong Description Of Prices
      committed in the "coverage territory" during the              "Personal and advertising injury" arising out of
      policy period.                                                the wrong description of the price of goods,
                                                                    products or services stated in your
                                                                    "advertisement".




Page 6 of 16                            © Insurance Services Office, Inc., 2012                     CG 00 01 04 13
   i. Infringement Of Copyright, Patent,                      n. Pollution-related
      Trademark Or Trade Secret                                  Any loss, cost or expense arising out of any:
      "Personal and advertising injury" arising out of          (1) Request, demand, order or statutory or
      the infringement of copyright, patent,                        regulatory requirement that any insured or
      trademark, trade secret or other intellectual                 others test for, monitor, clean up, remove,
      property rights. Under this exclusion, such                   contain, treat, detoxify or neutralize, or in
      other intellectual property rights do not include             any way respond to, or assess the effects
      the use of another's advertising idea in your                 of, "pollutants"; or
      "advertisement".
                                                                (2) Claim or suit by or on behalf of a
      However, this exclusion does not apply to                     governmental authority for damages
      infringement, in your "advertisement", of                     because of testing for, monitoring, cleaning
      copyright, trade dress or slogan.                             up,     removing,      containing,      treating,
   j. Insureds In Media And Internet Type                           detoxifying or neutralizing, or in any way
      Businesses                                                    responding to, or assessing the effects of,
      "Personal and advertising injury" committed by                "pollutants".
      an insured whose business is:                           o. War
     (1) Advertising, broadcasting, publishing or                "Personal and advertising injury", however
         telecasting;                                            caused, arising, directly or indirectly, out of:
     (2) Designing or determining content of web                (1) War, including undeclared or civil war;
          sites for others; or                                  (2) Warlike action by a military force, including
     (3) An Internet search, access, content or                      action in hindering or defending against an
          service provider.                                          actual or expected attack, by any
      However, this exclusion does not apply to                      government, sovereign or other authority
      Paragraphs 14.a., b. and c. of "personal and                   using military personnel or other agents; or
      advertising injury" under the Definitions                 (3) Insurrection, rebellion, revolution, usurped
      section.                                                       power, or action taken by governmental
      For the purposes of this exclusion, the placing                authority in hindering or defending against
      of frames, borders or links, or advertising, for               any of these.
      you or others anywhere on the Internet, is not          p. Recording And Distribution Of Material Or
      by itself, considered the business of                      Information In Violation Of Law
      advertising, broadcasting, publishing or                   "Personal and advertising injury" arising
      telecasting.                                               directly or indirectly out of any action or
   k. Electronic Chatrooms Or Bulletin Boards                    omission that violates or is alleged to violate:
      "Personal and advertising injury" arising out of          (1) The Telephone Consumer Protection Act
      an electronic chatroom or bulletin board the                   (TCPA), including any amendment of or
      insured hosts, owns, or over which the insured                 addition to such law;
      exercises control.                                         (2) The CAN-SPAM Act of 2003, including any
   l. Unauthorized Use Of Another's Name Or                          amendment of or addition to such law;
      Product                                                    (3) The Fair Credit Reporting Act (FCRA), and
      "Personal and advertising injury" arising out of               any amendment of or addition to such law,
      the unauthorized use of another's name or                      including the Fair and Accurate Credit
      product in your e-mail address, domain name                    Transactions Act (FACTA); or
      or metatag, or any other similar tactics to                (4) Any federal, state or local statute,
      mislead another's potential customers.                         ordinance or regulation, other than the
  m. Pollution                                                       TCPA, CAN-SPAM Act of 2003 or FCRA
     "Personal and advertising injury" arising out of                and their amendments and additions, that
     the actual, alleged or threatened discharge,                    addresses, prohibits, or limits the printing,
     dispersal, seepage, migration, release or                       dissemination,     disposal,       collecting,
     escape of "pollutants" at any time.                             recording,      sending,        transmitting,
                                                                     communicating or distribution of material or
                                                                     information.




CG 00 01 04 13                       © Insurance Services Office, Inc., 2012                          Page 7 of 16
COVERAGE C – MEDICAL PAYMENTS                                  d. Workers' Compensation And Similar Laws
1. Insuring Agreement                                             To a person, whether or not an "employee" of
   a. We will pay medical expenses as described                   any insured, if benefits for the "bodily injury"
       below for "bodily injury" caused by an accident:           are payable or must be provided under a
                                                                  workers' compensation or disability benefits
      (1) On premises you own or rent;                            law or a similar law.
      (2) On ways next to premises you own or rent;            e. Athletics Activities
           or
                                                                  To a person injured while practicing, instructing
      (3) Because of your operations;                             or participating in any physical exercises or
       provided that:                                             games, sports, or athletic contests.
          (a) The accident takes place in the                   f. Products-Completed Operations Hazard
              "coverage territory" and during the policy           Included within the "products-completed
              period;                                              operations hazard".
         (b) The expenses are incurred and reported            g. Coverage A Exclusions
              to us within one year of the date of the
              accident; and                                        Excluded under Coverage A.
         (c) The injured person submits to                  SUPPLEMENTARY PAYMENTS – COVERAGES A
             examination, at our expense, by                AND B
             physicians of our choice as often as we        1. We will pay, with respect to any claim we
             reasonably require.                               investigate or settle, or any "suit" against an
   b. We will make these payments regardless of                insured we defend:
      fault. These payments will not exceed the                a. All expenses we incur.
      applicable limit of insurance. We will pay               b. Up to $250 for cost of bail bonds required
      reasonable expenses for:                                     because of accidents or traffic law violations
      (1) First aid administered at the time of an                 arising out of the use of any vehicle to which
          accident;                                                the Bodily Injury Liability Coverage applies. We
      (2) Necessary medical, surgical, X-ray and                   do not have to furnish these bonds.
          dental    services,  including  prosthetic           c. The cost of bonds to release attachments, but
          devices; and                                             only for bond amounts within the applicable
     (3) Necessary         ambulance,         hospital,            limit of insurance. We do not have to furnish
          professional nursing and funeral services.               these bonds.
2. Exclusions                                                  d. All reasonable expenses incurred by the
                                                                   insured at our request to assist us in the
   We will not pay expenses for "bodily injury":                   investigation or defense of the claim or "suit",
   a. Any Insured                                                  including actual loss of earnings up to $250 a
                                                                   day because of time off from work.
      To any insured, except "volunteer workers".
   b. Hired Person                                             e. All court costs taxed against the insured in the
                                                                  "suit". However, these payments do not include
      To a person hired to do work for or on behalf of            attorneys' fees or attorneys' expenses taxed
      any insured or a tenant of any insured.                     against the insured.
   c. Injury On Normally Occupied Premises                      f. Prejudgment interest awarded against the
      To a person injured on that part of premises                 insured on that part of the judgment we pay. If
      you own or rent that the person normally                     we make an offer to pay the applicable limit of
      occupies.                                                    insurance, we will not pay any prejudgment
                                                                   interest based on that period of time after the
                                                                   offer.




Page 8 of 16                          © Insurance Services Office, Inc., 2012                     CG 00 01 04 13
   g. All interest on the full amount of any judgment            So long as the above conditions are met,
       that accrues after entry of the judgment and              attorneys' fees incurred by us in the defense of
       before we have paid, offered to pay, or                   that indemnitee, necessary litigation expenses
       deposited in court the part of the judgment that          incurred by us and necessary litigation expenses
       is within the applicable limit of insurance.              incurred by the indemnitee at our request will be
   These payments will not reduce the limits of                  paid        as       Supplementary     Payments.
   insurance.                                                    Notwithstanding the provisions of Paragraph
                                                                 2.b.(2) of Section I – Coverage A – Bodily Injury
2. If we defend an insured against a "suit" and an               And Property Damage Liability, such payments will
   indemnitee of the insured is also named as a party            not be deemed to be damages for "bodily injury"
   to the "suit", we will defend that indemnitee if all of       and "property damage" and will not reduce the
   the following conditions are met:                             limits of insurance.
   a. The "suit" against the indemnitee seeks                    Our obligation to defend an insured's indemnitee
       damages for which the insured has assumed                 and to pay for attorneys' fees and necessary
       the liability of the indemnitee in a contract or          litigation expenses as Supplementary Payments
       agreement that is an "insured contract";                  ends when we have used up the applicable limit of
   b. This insurance applies to such liability                   insurance in the payment of judgments or
       assumed by the insured;                                   settlements or the conditions set forth above, or
                                                                 the terms of the agreement described in
   c. The obligation to defend, or the cost of the
                                                                 Paragraph f. above, are no longer met.
      defense of, that indemnitee, has also been
      assumed by the insured in the same "insured             SECTION II – WHO IS AN INSURED
      contract";                                              1. If you are designated in the Declarations as:
   d. The allegations in the "suit" and the information          a. An individual, you and your spouse are
      we know about the "occurrence" are such that                   insureds, but only with respect to the conduct
      no conflict appears to exist between the                       of a business of which you are the sole owner.
      interests of the insured and the interests of the
      indemnitee;                                                b. A partnership or joint venture, you are an
                                                                     insured. Your members, your partners, and
   e. The indemnitee and the insured ask us to                       their spouses are also insureds, but only with
      conduct and control the defense of that                        respect to the conduct of your business.
      indemnitee against such "suit" and agree that
      we can assign the same counsel to defend the               c. A limited liability company, you are an insured.
      insured and the indemnitee; and                                Your members are also insureds, but only with
                                                                     respect to the conduct of your business. Your
   f. The indemnitee:                                                managers are insureds, but only with respect
     (1) Agrees in writing to:                                       to their duties as your managers.
         (a) Cooperate with us in the investigation,             d. An organization other than a partnership, joint
             settlement or defense of the "suit";                   venture or limited liability company, you are an
                                                                    insured. Your "executive officers" and directors
         (b) Immediately send us copies of any
                                                                    are insureds, but only with respect to their
             demands, notices, summonses or legal
             papers received in connection with the                 duties as your officers or directors. Your
             "suit";                                                stockholders are also insureds, but only with
                                                                    respect to their liability as stockholders.
         (c) Notify any other insurer whose coverage
             is available to the indemnitee; and                 e. A trust, you are an insured. Your trustees are
                                                                    also insureds, but only with respect to their
         (d) Cooperate with us with respect to                      duties as trustees.
             coordinating other applicable insurance
             available to the indemnitee; and
      (2) Provides us with written authorization to:
         (a) Obtain records and other information
             related to the "suit"; and
         (b) Conduct and control the defense of the
             indemnitee in such "suit".




CG 00 01 04 13                          © Insurance Services Office, Inc., 2012                       Page 9 of 16
2. Each of the following is also an insured:                   c. Any person or organization having proper
   a. Your "volunteer workers" only while performing              temporary custody of your property if you die,
      duties related to the conduct of your business,             but only:
      or your "employees", other than either your                (1) With respect to liability arising out of the
      "executive officers" (if you are an organization               maintenance or use of that property; and
      other than a partnership, joint venture or limited          (2) Until your legal representative has been
      liability company) or your managers (if you are                 appointed.
      a limited liability company), but only for acts
      within the scope of their employment by you or           d. Your legal representative if you die, but only
      while performing duties related to the conduct               with respect to duties as such. That
      of your business. However, none of these                     representative will have all your rights and
      "employees" or "volunteer workers" are                       duties under this Coverage Part.
      insureds for:                                         3. Any organization you newly acquire or form, other
     (1) "Bodily injury" or "personal and advertising          than a partnership, joint venture or limited liability
          injury":                                             company, and over which you maintain ownership
                                                               or majority interest, will qualify as a Named
         (a) To you, to your partners or members (if           Insured if there is no other similar insurance
             you are a partnership or joint venture),          available to that organization. However:
             to your members (if you are a limited
             liability company), to a co-"employee"            a. Coverage under this provision is afforded only
             while in the course of his or her                    until the 90th day after you acquire or form the
             employment or performing duties related              organization or the end of the policy period,
             to the conduct of your business, or to               whichever is earlier;
             your other "volunteer workers" while               b. Coverage A does not apply to "bodily injury" or
             performing duties related to the conduct              "property damage" that occurred before you
             of your business;                                     acquired or formed the organization; and
         (b) To the spouse, child, parent, brother or           c. Coverage B does not apply to "personal and
             sister of that co-"employee" or                       advertising injury" arising out of an offense
             "volunteer worker" as a consequence of                committed before you acquired or formed the
             Paragraph (1)(a) above;                               organization.
         (c) For which there is any obligation to           No person or organization is an insured with respect
             share damages with or repay someone            to the conduct of any current or past partnership, joint
             else who must pay damages because of           venture or limited liability company that is not shown
             the injury described in Paragraph (1)(a)       as a Named Insured in the Declarations.
             or (b) above; or                               SECTION III – LIMITS OF INSURANCE
         (d) Arising out of his or her providing or         1. The Limits of Insurance shown in the Declarations
             failing to provide professional health             and the rules below fix the most we will pay
             care services.
                                                                regardless of the number of:
      (2) "Property damage" to property:                        a. Insureds;
         (a) Owned, occupied or used by;                        b. Claims made or "suits" brought; or
         (b) Rented to, in the care, custody or                 c. Persons or organizations making claims or
             control of, or over which physical control            bringing "suits".
             is being exercised for any purpose by;
                                                            2. The General Aggregate Limit is the most we will
          you, any of your "employees", "volunteer              pay for the sum of:
          workers", any partner or member (if you are
          a partnership or joint venture), or any              a. Medical expenses under Coverage C;
          member (if you are a limited liability               b. Damages under Coverage A, except damages
          company).                                               because of "bodily injury" or "property damage"
   b. Any person (other than your "employee" or                   included in the "products-completed operations
      "volunteer worker"), or any organization while              hazard"; and
      acting as your real estate manager.                      c. Damages under Coverage B.




Page 10 of 16                         © Insurance Services Office, Inc., 2012                      CG 00 01 04 13
3. The Products-Completed Operations Aggregate                  (3) The nature and location of any injury or
    Limit is the most we will pay under Coverage A for               damage arising out of the "occurrence" or
    damages because of "bodily injury" and "property                 offense.
    damage" included in the "products-completed               b. If a claim is made or "suit" is brought against
    operations hazard".                                          any insured, you must:
4. Subject to Paragraph 2. above, the Personal And               (1) Immediately record the specifics of the
    Advertising Injury Limit is the most we will pay                 claim or "suit" and the date received; and
    under Coverage B for the sum of all damages
    because of all "personal and advertising injury"             (2) Notify us as soon as practicable.
    sustained by any one person or organization.                  You must see to it that we receive written
5. Subject to Paragraph 2. or 3. above, whichever                 notice of the claim or "suit" as soon as
    applies, the Each Occurrence Limit is the most we             practicable.
    will pay for the sum of:                                  c. You and any other involved insured must:
    a. Damages under Coverage A; and                            (1) Immediately send us copies of any
    b. Medical expenses under Coverage C                            demands, notices, summonses or legal
                                                                    papers received in connection with the
    because of all "bodily injury" and "property                    claim or "suit";
    damage" arising out of any one "occurrence".
                                                                 (2) Authorize us to obtain records and other
6. Subject to Paragraph 5. above, the Damage To                      information;
    Premises Rented To You Limit is the most we will
    pay under Coverage A for damages because of                  (3) Cooperate with us in the investigation or
    "property damage" to any one premises, while                     settlement of the claim or defense against
    rented to you, or in the case of damage by fire,                 the "suit"; and
    while rented to you or temporarily occupied by you          (4) Assist us, upon our request, in the
    with permission of the owner.                                     enforcement of any right against any
7. Subject to Paragraph 5. above, the Medical                         person or organization which may be liable
    Expense Limit is the most we will pay under                       to the insured because of injury or damage
    Coverage C for all medical expenses because of                    to which this insurance may also apply.
    "bodily injury" sustained by any one person.              d. No insured will, except at that insured's own
The Limits of Insurance of this Coverage Part apply              cost, voluntarily make a payment, assume any
separately to each consecutive annual period and to              obligation, or incur any expense, other than for
any remaining period of less than 12 months, starting            first aid, without our consent.
with the beginning of the policy period shown in the       3. Legal Action Against Us
Declarations, unless the policy period is extended
                                                              No person or organization has a right under this
after issuance for an additional period of less than 12       Coverage Part:
months. In that case, the additional period will be
deemed part of the last preceding period for purposes         a. To join us as a party or otherwise bring us into
of determining the Limits of Insurance.                          a "suit" asking for damages from an insured; or
SECTION IV – COMMERCIAL GENERAL LIABILITY                     b. To sue us on this Coverage Part unless all of
CONDITIONS                                                        its terms have been fully complied with.
1. Bankruptcy                                                 A person or organization may sue us to recover on
                                                              an agreed settlement or on a final judgment
    Bankruptcy or insolvency of the insured or of the         against an insured; but we will not be liable for
    insured's estate will not relieve us of our
                                                              damages that are not payable under the terms of
    obligations under this Coverage Part.                     this Coverage Part or that are in excess of the
2. Duties In The Event Of Occurrence, Offense,                applicable limit of insurance. An agreed settlement
    Claim Or Suit                                             means a settlement and release of liability signed
    a. You must see to it that we are notified as soon        by us, the insured and the claimant or the
        as practicable of an "occurrence" or an offense       claimant's legal representative.
        which may result in a claim. To the extent
        possible, notice should include:
       (1) How, when and where the "occurrence" or
            offense took place;
      (2) The names and addresses of any injured
          persons and witnesses; and




CG 00 01 04 13                       © Insurance Services Office, Inc., 2012                      Page 11 of 16
4. Other Insurance                                                 (3) When this insurance is excess over other
   If other valid and collectible insurance is available               insurance, we will pay only our share of the
   to the insured for a loss we cover under                            amount of the loss, if any, that exceeds the
   Coverages A or B of this Coverage Part, our                         sum of:
   obligations are limited as follows:                                 (a) The total amount that all such other
   a. Primary Insurance                                                     insurance would pay for the loss in the
                                                                            absence of this insurance; and
      This insurance is primary except when
      Paragraph b. below applies. If this insurance is                (b) The total of all deductible and self-
      primary, our obligations are not affected unless                      insured amounts under all that other
      any of the other insurance is also primary.                           insurance.
      Then, we will share with all that other                     (4) We will share the remaining loss, if any,
      insurance by the method described in                              with any other insurance that is not
      Paragraph c. below.                                               described in this Excess Insurance
   b. Excess Insurance                                                  provision and was not bought specifically to
                                                                        apply in excess of the Limits of Insurance
     (1) This insurance is excess over:                                 shown in the Declarations of this Coverage
        (a) Any of the other insurance, whether                         Part.
             primary, excess, contingent or on any              c. Method Of Sharing
             other basis:
                                                                   If all of the other insurance permits contribution
             (i) That is Fire, Extended Coverage,                  by equal shares, we will follow this method
                 Builder's Risk, Installation Risk or              also. Under this approach each insurer
                 similar coverage for "your work";                 contributes equal amounts until it has paid its
            (ii) That is Fire insurance for premises               applicable limit of insurance or none of the loss
                 rented to you or temporarily                      remains, whichever comes first.
                 occupied by you with permission of                If any of the other insurance does not permit
                 the owner;                                        contribution by equal shares, we will contribute
           (iii) That is insurance purchased by you                by limits. Under this method, each insurer's
                 to cover your liability as a tenant for           share is based on the ratio of its applicable
                 "property damage" to premises                     limit of insurance to the total applicable limits of
                 rented to you or temporarily                      insurance of all insurers.
                 occupied by you with permission of          5. Premium Audit
                 the owner; or
                                                                a. We will compute all premiums for this
            (iv) If the loss arises out of the                     Coverage Part in accordance with our rules
                  maintenance or use of aircraft,                  and rates.
                  "autos" or watercraft to the extent not
                  subject to Exclusion g. of Section I –        b. Premium shown in this Coverage Part as
                  Coverage A – Bodily Injury And                   advance premium is a deposit premium only.
                  Property Damage Liability.                       At the close of each audit period we will
                                                                   compute the earned premium for that period
         (b) Any other primary insurance available to              and send notice to the first Named Insured.
              you covering liability for damages                   The due date for audit and retrospective
              arising out of the premises or                       premiums is the date shown as the due date
              operations, or the products and                      on the bill. If the sum of the advance and audit
              completed operations, for which you                  premiums paid for the policy period is greater
              have been added as an additional                     than the earned premium, we will return the
              insured.                                             excess to the first Named Insured.
      (2) When this insurance is excess, we will have           c. The first Named Insured must keep records of
          no duty under Coverages A or B to defend                 the information we need for premium
          the insured against any "suit" if any other              computation, and send us copies at such times
          insurer has a duty to defend the insured                 as we may request.
          against that "suit". If no other insurer
          defends, we will undertake to do so, but we        6. Representations
          will be entitled to the insured's rights              By accepting this policy, you agree:
          against all those other insurers.                     a. The statements in the Declarations are
                                                                   accurate and complete;




Page 12 of 16                          © Insurance Services Office, Inc., 2012                       CG 00 01 04 13
   b. Those     statements      are     based    upon            However, "auto" does not include "mobile
      representations you made to us; and                        equipment".
   c. We have issued this policy in reliance upon             3. "Bodily injury" means bodily injury, sickness or
      your representations.                                      disease sustained by a person, including death
7. Separation Of Insureds                                        resulting from any of these at any time.
   Except with respect to the Limits of Insurance, and        4. "Coverage territory" means:
   any rights or duties specifically assigned in this            a. The United States of America (including its
   Coverage Part to the first Named Insured, this                   territories and possessions), Puerto Rico and
   insurance applies:                                               Canada;
   a. As if each Named Insured were the only                     b. International waters or airspace, but only if the
      Named Insured; and                                            injury or damage occurs in the course of travel
   b. Separately to each insured against whom claim                 or transportation between any places included
       is made or "suit" is brought.                                in Paragraph a. above; or
8. Transfer Of Rights Of Recovery Against Others                 c. All other parts of the world if the injury or
   To Us                                                            damage arises out of:
   If the insured has rights to recover all or part of              (1) Goods or products made or sold by you in
   any payment we have made under this Coverage                          the territory described in Paragraph a.
   Part, those rights are transferred to us. The                         above;
   insured must do nothing after loss to impair them.               (2) The activities of a person whose home is in
   At our request, the insured will bring "suit" or                      the territory described in Paragraph a.
   transfer those rights to us and help us enforce                       above, but is away for a short time on your
   them.                                                                 business; or
9. When We Do Not Renew                                             (3) "Personal and advertising injury" offenses
   If we decide not to renew this Coverage Part, we                      that take place through the Internet or
   will mail or deliver to the first Named Insured                       similar electronic means of communication;
   shown in the Declarations written notice of the               provided the insured's responsibility to pay
   nonrenewal not less than 30 days before the                   damages is determined in a "suit" on the merits, in
   expiration date.                                              the territory described in Paragraph a. above or in
   If notice is mailed, proof of mailing will be sufficient      a settlement we agree to.
   proof of notice.                                           5. "Employee"       includes    a   "leased   worker".
SECTION V – DEFINITIONS                                          "Employee" does not include a "temporary
                                                                 worker".
1. "Advertisement" means a notice that is broadcast
   or published to the general public or specific             6. "Executive officer" means a person holding any of
   market segments about your goods, products or                 the officer positions created by your charter,
   services for the purpose of attracting customers or           constitution, bylaws or any other similar governing
   supporters. For the purposes of this definition:              document.
   a. Notices that are published include material             7. "Hostile fire" means one which becomes
       placed on the Internet or on similar electronic           uncontrollable or breaks out from where it was
       means of communication; and                               intended to be.
   b. Regarding web sites, only that part of a web            8. "Impaired property" means tangible property, other
       site that is about your goods, products or                than "your product" or "your work", that cannot be
       services for the purposes of attracting                   used or is less useful because:
       customers or supporters is considered an                  a. It incorporates "your product" or "your work"
       advertisement.                                                that is known or thought to be defective,
2. "Auto" means:                                                     deficient, inadequate or dangerous; or
   a. A land motor vehicle, trailer or semitrailer               b. You have failed to fulfill the terms of a contract
       designed for travel on public roads, including                or agreement;
       any attached machinery or equipment; or                   if such property can be restored to use by the
   b. Any other land vehicle that is subject to a                repair, replacement, adjustment or removal of
       compulsory or financial responsibility law or             "your product" or "your work" or your fulfilling the
       other motor vehicle insurance law where it is             terms of the contract or agreement.
       licensed or principally garaged.




CG 00 01 04 13                          © Insurance Services Office, Inc., 2012                       Page 13 of 16
9. "Insured contract" means:                                 10. "Leased worker" means a person leased to you by
   a. A contract for a lease of premises. However,               a labor leasing firm under an agreement between
       that portion of the contract for a lease of               you and the labor leasing firm, to perform duties
       premises that indemnifies any person or                   related to the conduct of your business. "Leased
       organization for damage by fire to premises               worker" does not include a "temporary worker".
       while rented to you or temporarily occupied by        11. "Loading or unloading" means the handling of
       you with permission of the owner is not an                property:
       "insured contract";                                       a. After it is moved from the place where it is
   b. A sidetrack agreement;                                         accepted for movement into or onto an aircraft,
   c. Any easement or license agreement, except in                   watercraft or "auto";
      connection with construction or demolition                 b. While it is in or on an aircraft, watercraft or
      operations on or within 50 feet of a railroad;                 "auto"; or
   d. An obligation, as required by ordinance, to                c. While it is being moved from an aircraft,
      indemnify a municipality, except in connection                 watercraft or "auto" to the place where it is
      with work for a municipality;                                  finally delivered;
   e. An elevator maintenance agreement;                         but "loading or unloading" does not include the
   f. That part of any other contract or agreement               movement of property by means of a mechanical
      pertaining to your business (including an                  device, other than a hand truck, that is not
      indemnification of a municipality in connection            attached to the aircraft, watercraft or "auto".
      with work performed for a municipality) under          12. "Mobile equipment" means any of the following
      which you assume the tort liability of another             types of land vehicles, including any attached
      party to pay for "bodily injury" or "property              machinery or equipment:
      damage" to a third person or organization. Tort           a. Bulldozers, farm machinery, forklifts and other
      liability means a liability that would be imposed            vehicles designed for use principally off public
      by law in the absence of any contract or                     roads;
      agreement.
                                                                b. Vehicles maintained for use solely on or next to
      Paragraph f. does not include that part of any               premises you own or rent;
      contract or agreement:
                                                                c. Vehicles that travel on crawler treads;
     (1) That indemnifies a railroad for "bodily injury"
          or "property damage" arising out of                   d. Vehicles, whether self-propelled or not,
          construction or demolition operations, within            maintained primarily to provide mobility to
          50 feet of any railroad property and                     permanently mounted:
          affecting any railroad bridge or trestle,               (1) Power cranes, shovels, loaders, diggers or
          tracks, road-beds, tunnel, underpass or                     drills; or
          crossing;
                                                                  (2) Road construction or resurfacing equipment
     (2) That indemnifies an architect, engineer or                    such as graders, scrapers or rollers;
          surveyor for injury or damage arising out of:
                                                                e. Vehicles not described in Paragraph a., b., c.
         (a) Preparing, approving, or failing to                   or d. above that are not self-propelled and are
             prepare or approve, maps, shop                        maintained primarily to provide mobility to
             drawings, opinions, reports, surveys,                 permanently attached equipment of the
             field orders, change orders or drawings               following types:
             and specifications; or                               (1) Air compressors, pumps and generators,
         (b) Giving directions or instructions, or                     including spraying, welding, building
             failing to give them, if that is the primary              cleaning, geophysical exploration, lighting
             cause of the injury or damage; or                         and well servicing equipment; or
     (3) Under which the insured, if an architect,                (2) Cherry pickers and similar devices used to
         engineer or surveyor, assumes liability for                   raise or lower workers;
         an injury or damage arising out of the
                                                                 f. Vehicles not described in Paragraph a., b., c.
         insured's rendering or failure to render
                                                                    or d. above maintained primarily for purposes
         professional services, including those listed              other than the transportation of persons or
         in (2) above and supervisory, inspection,                  cargo.
         architectural or engineering activities.




Page 14 of 16                          © Insurance Services Office, Inc., 2012                     CG 00 01 04 13
      However, self-propelled vehicles with the             16. "Products-completed operations hazard":
      following types of permanently attached                   a. Includes all "bodily injury" and "property
      equipment are not "mobile equipment" but will                damage" occurring away from premises you
      be considered "autos":                                       own or rent and arising out of "your product" or
      (1) Equipment designed primarily for:                        "your work" except:
         (a) Snow removal;                                        (1) Products that are still in your physical
         (b) Road maintenance, but not construction                   possession; or
              or resurfacing; or                                  (2) Work that has not yet been completed or
         (c) Street cleaning;                                         abandoned. However, "your work" will be
                                                                      deemed completed at the earliest of the
      (2) Cherry pickers and similar devices mounted                  following times:
          on automobile or truck chassis and used to
          raise or lower workers; and                                (a) When all of the work called for in your
                                                                          contract has been completed.
      (3) Air compressors, pumps and generators,
          including spraying, welding, building                      (b) When all of the work to be done at the
          cleaning, geophysical exploration, lighting                     job site has been completed if your
          and well servicing equipment.                                   contract calls for work at more than one
                                                                          job site.
    However, "mobile equipment" does not include
    any land vehicles that are subject to a compulsory               (c) When that part of the work done at a job
    or financial responsibility law or other motor                        site has been put to its intended use by
    vehicle insurance law where it is licensed or                         any person or organization other than
    principally garaged. Land vehicles subject to a                       another contractor or subcontractor
    compulsory or financial responsibility law or other                   working on the same project.
    motor vehicle insurance law are considered                        Work that may need service, maintenance,
    "autos".                                                          correction, repair or replacement, but which
13. "Occurrence" means an accident, including                         is otherwise complete, will be treated as
    continuous or repeated exposure to substantially                  completed.
    the same general harmful conditions.                       b. Does not include "bodily injury" or "property
14. "Personal and advertising injury" means injury,               damage" arising out of:
    including consequential "bodily injury", arising out         (1) The transportation of property, unless the
    of one or more of the following offenses:                        injury or damage arises out of a condition in
    a. False arrest, detention or imprisonment;                      or on a vehicle not owned or operated by
                                                                     you, and that condition was created by the
    b. Malicious prosecution;                                        "loading or unloading" of that vehicle by any
    c. The wrongful eviction from, wrongful entry into,              insured;
        or invasion of the right of private occupancy of          (2) The existence of tools, uninstalled
        a room, dwelling or premises that a person                    equipment or abandoned or unused
        occupies, committed by or on behalf of its                    materials; or
        owner, landlord or lessor;
                                                                  (3) Products or operations for which the
   d. Oral or written publication, in any manner, of                  classification, listed in the Declarations or in
      material that slanders or libels a person or                    a policy Schedule, states that products-
      organization or disparages a person's or                        completed operations are subject to the
      organization's goods, products or services;                     General Aggregate Limit.
   e. Oral or written publication, in any manner, of        17. "Property damage" means:
      material that violates a person's right of
      privacy;                                                  a. Physical injury to tangible property, including
                                                                   all resulting loss of use of that property. All
   f. The use of another's advertising idea in your                such loss of use shall be deemed to occur at
      "advertisement"; or                                          the time of the physical injury that caused it; or
    g. Infringing upon another's copyright, trade dress        b. Loss of use of tangible property that is not
       or slogan in your "advertisement".                         physically injured. All such loss of use shall be
15. "Pollutants" mean any solid, liquid, gaseous or               deemed to occur at the time of the
    thermal irritant or contaminant, including smoke,             "occurrence" that caused it.
    vapor, soot, fumes, acids, alkalis, chemicals and          For the purposes of this insurance, electronic data
    waste. Waste includes materials to be recycled,            is not tangible property.
    reconditioned or reclaimed.



CG 00 01 04 13                        © Insurance Services Office, Inc., 2012                         Page 15 of 16
    As used in this definition, electronic data means          b. Includes:
    information, facts or programs stored as or on,              (1) Warranties or representations made at any
    created or used on, or transmitted to or from                     time with respect to the fitness, quality,
    computer software, including systems and                          durability, performance or use of "your
    applications software, hard or floppy disks, CD-                  product"; and
    ROMs, tapes, drives, cells, data processing
    devices or any other media which are used with               (2) The providing of or failure to provide
    electronically controlled equipment.                             warnings or instructions.
18. "Suit" means a civil proceeding in which damages           c. Does not include vending machines or other
    because of "bodily injury", "property damage" or              property rented to or located for the use of
    "personal and advertising injury" to which this               others but not sold.
    insurance applies are alleged. "Suit" includes:         22. "Your work":
    a. An arbitration proceeding in which such                  a. Means:
        damages are claimed and to which the insured
                                                                  (1) Work or operations performed by you or on
        must submit or does submit with our consent;
                                                                       your behalf; and
        or
                                                                  (2) Materials, parts or equipment furnished in
    b. Any other alternative dispute resolution                        connection with such work or operations.
        proceeding in which such damages are
        claimed and to which the insured submits with           b. Includes:
        our consent.                                              (1) Warranties or representations made at any
19. "Temporary worker" means a person who is                           time with respect to the fitness, quality,
    furnished to you to substitute for a permanent                     durability, performance or use of "your
    "employee" on leave or to meet seasonal or short-                  work"; and
    term workload conditions.                                     (2) The providing of or failure to provide
20. "Volunteer worker" means a person who is not                       warnings or instructions.
    your "employee", and who donates his or her work
    and acts at the direction of and within the scope of
    duties determined by you, and is not paid a fee,
    salary or other compensation by you or anyone
    else for their work performed for you.
21. "Your product":
    a. Means:
      (1) Any goods or products, other than real
           property, manufactured, sold, handled,
           distributed or disposed of by:
          (a) You;
          (b) Others trading under your name; or
          (c) A person or organization whose
               business or assets you have acquired;
               and
      (2) Containers (other than vehicles), materials,
           parts or equipment furnished in connection
           with such goods or products.




Page 16 of 16                         © Insurance Services Office, Inc., 2012                    CG 00 01 04 13
                                                                          COMMERCIAL GENERAL LIABILITY
POLICY NUMBER: EV131585
                                                                                         CG 21 00 07 98

 THIS ENDORSEMENT CHANGES THE POLICY. PLEASE READ IT CAREFULLY.

      EXCLUSION – ALL HAZARDS IN CONNECTION
                       WITH
              DESIGNATED PREMISES
This endorsement modifies insurance provided under the following:

  COMMERCIAL GENERAL LIABILITY COVERAGE PART
                                     SCHEDULE

Description And Location Of Premises:              All operations except those arising out of premises located at
                                                   Siempre, 1283 e mike weir dr, draper, UT 84020




(If no entry appears above, information required to complete this endorsement will be shown in the Declarations
as applicable to this endorsement.)




The following
exclusion is
added       to
Paragraph 2.,
Exclusions
of Section I –
Coverage A
–       Bodily
Injury    And
Property
Damage
Liability and
Paragraph 2.,
Exclusions
of Section I –
Coverage B
–    Personal
And
Advertising
Injury
Liability:

This
insurance
does not apply
to       "bodily
injury",
"property
damage"      or
"personal and
advertising
injury" arising
out of:

 1. The
 ownership,
 maintenance
 or use of the
 premises
 shown in the
 Schedule or
 any property
 located on
 these
 premises;
                   2. Operations on those premises or elsewhere which are necessary or incidental to the ownership,
                   maintenance or use of those premises; or

                   3. Goods or products manufactured at or distributed from those premises.
CG 21 00 07 98                       Copyright, Insurance Services Office, Inc., 1997               Page 1 of 1
                                                                      COMMERCIAL GENERAL LIABILITY
POLICY NUMBER: EV131585
                                                                                     CG 21 01 11 85

           THIS ENDORSEMENT CHANGES THE POLICY. PLEASE READ IT CAREFULLY.

          EXCLUSION – ATHLETIC OR SPORTS PARTICIPANTS
This endorsement modifies insurance provided under the following:

  COMMERCIAL GENERAL LIABILITY COVERAGE PART.

                                                SCHEDULE

Description of Operations: Any and all athletic or sports participants.




(If no entry appears above, information required to complete this endorsement will be shown in the Declarations as
applicable to this endorsement.)




With respect to any operations shown in the Schedule, this insurance does not apply to "bodily injury" to any person
while practicing for or participating in any sports or athletic contest or exhibition that you sponsor.




CG 21 01 11 85                 Copyright, Insurance Services Office, Inc., 1984            Page 1 of 1
                                                                          COMMERCIAL GENERAL LIABILITY
                                                                                         CG 21 06 05 14

     THIS ENDORSEMENT CHANGES THE POLICY. PLEASE READ IT CAREFULLY.

        EXCLUSION – ACCESS OR DISCLOSURE OF
      CONFIDENTIAL OR PERSONAL INFORMATION AND
             DATA-RELATED LIABILITY – WITH
           LIMITED BODILY INJURY EXCEPTION
This endorsement modifies insurance provided under the following:

   COMMERCIAL GENERAL LIABILITY COVERAGE PART

A. Exclusion 2.p. of Section I – Coverage A –                        As used in this exclusion, electronic data
   Bodily Injury And Property Damage Liability is                    means information, facts or programs
   replaced by the following:                                        stored as or on, created or used on, or
   2. Exclusions                                                     transmitted to or from computer software,
                                                                     including    systems      and     applications
      This insurance does not apply to:                              software, hard or floppy disks, CD-ROMs,
      p. Access Or Disclosure Of Confidential Or                     tapes, drives, cells, data processing
         Personal Information And Data-related                       devices or any other media which are used
         Liability                                                   with electronically controlled equipment.
         Damages arising out of:                           B. The following is added to Paragraph 2.
        (1) Any access to or disclosure of any                Exclusions of Section I – Coverage B –
             person's or organization's confidential or       Personal And Advertising Injury Liability:
             personal information, including patents,         2. Exclusions
             trade secrets, processing methods,                  This insurance does not apply to:
             customer lists, financial information,
             credit    card    information,     health           Access Or Disclosure Of Confidential Or
             information or any other type of                    Personal Information
             nonpublic information; or                           "Personal and advertising injury" arising out of
         (2) The loss of, loss of use of, damage to,             any access to or disclosure of any person's or
              corruption of, inability to access, or             organization's     confidential   or    personal
              inability to manipulate electronic data.           information, including patents, trade secrets,
                                                                 processing methods, customer lists, financial
          This exclusion applies even if damages are             information, credit card information, health
          claimed for notification costs, credit                 information or any other type of nonpublic
          monitoring expenses, forensic expenses,                information.
          public relations expenses or any other loss,
          cost or expense incurred by you or others              This exclusion applies even if damages are
          arising out of that which is described in              claimed for notification costs, credit monitoring
          Paragraph (1) or (2) above.                            expenses, forensic expenses, public relations
                                                                 expenses or any other loss, cost or expense
          However, unless Paragraph (1) above                    incurred by you or others arising out of any
          applies, this exclusion does not apply to              access to or disclosure of any person's or
          damages because of "bodily injury".                    organization's     confidential   or    personal
                                                                 information.




CG 21 06 05 14                       © Insurance Services Office, Inc., 2013                          Page 1 of 1
                                                                           COMMERCIAL GENERAL LIABILITY
                                                                                          CG 21 09 06 15

     THIS ENDORSEMENT CHANGES THE POLICY. PLEASE READ IT CAREFULLY.

                   EXCLUSION – UNMANNED AIRCRAFT
This endorsement modifies insurance provided under the following:

   COMMERCIAL GENERAL LIABILITY COVERAGE PART

A. Exclusion 2.g. Aircraft, Auto Or Watercraft under                     This Paragraph g.(2) applies even if the
   Section I – Coverage A – Bodily Injury And                            claims against any insured allege
   Property Damage Liability is replaced by the                          negligence or other wrongdoing in the
   following:                                                            supervision, hiring, employment, training
   2. Exclusions                                                         or monitoring of others by that insured, if
                                                                         the "occurrence" which caused the
       This insurance does not apply to:                                 "bodily injury" or "property damage"
       g. Aircraft, Auto Or Watercraft                                   involved the ownership, maintenance,
          (1) Unmanned Aircraft                                          use or entrustment to others of any
                                                                         aircraft (other than "unmanned aircraft"),
              "Bodily injury" or "property damage"                       "auto" or watercraft that is owned or
              arising   out    of    the    ownership,                   operated by or rented or loaned to any
              maintenance, use or entrustment to                         insured.
              others of any aircraft that is an
              "unmanned aircraft". Use includes                          This Paragraph g.(2) does not apply to:
              operation and "loading or unloading".                     (a) A watercraft while ashore on
             This Paragraph g.(1) applies even if the                        premises you own or rent;
             claims against any insured allege                          (b) A watercraft you do not own that is:
             negligence or other wrongdoing in the                           (i) Less than 26 feet long; and
             supervision, hiring, employment, training
             or monitoring of others by that insured, if                    (ii) Not being used to carry persons
             the "occurrence" which caused the                                   or property for a charge;
             "bodily injury" or "property damage"                       (c) Parking an "auto" on, or on the ways
             involved the ownership, maintenance,                           next to, premises you own or rent,
             use or entrustment to others of any                            provided the "auto" is not owned by
             aircraft that is an "unmanned aircraft".                       or rented or loaned to you or the
         (2) Aircraft (Other Than Unmanned                                  insured;
             Aircraft), Auto Or Watercraft                              (d) Liability assumed under any "insured
             "Bodily injury" or "property damage"                           contract"     for  the    ownership,
             arising    out    of     the  ownership,                       maintenance or use of aircraft or
             maintenance, use or entrustment to                             watercraft; or
             others of any aircraft (other than
             "unmanned       aircraft"),  "auto"   or
             watercraft owned or operated by or
             rented or loaned to any insured. Use
             includes operation and "loading or
             unloading".




CG 21 09 06 15                        © Insurance Services Office, Inc., 2014                          Page 1 of 2
            (e) "Bodily injury" or "property damage"             This exclusion applies even if the claims
                arising out of:                                  against any insured allege negligence or other
                (i) The operation of machinery or                wrongdoing in the supervision, hiring,
                    equipment that is attached to, or            employment, training or monitoring of others by
                    part of, a land vehicle that would           that insured, if the offense which caused the
                    qualify under the definition of              "personal and advertising injury" involved the
                    "mobile equipment" if it were not            ownership, maintenance, use or entrustment to
                    subject to a compulsory or                   others of any aircraft that is an "unmanned
                    financial responsibility law or              aircraft".
                    other motor vehicle insurance law            This exclusion does not apply to:
                    where it is licensed or principally          a. The use of another's advertising idea in
                    garaged; or                                      your "advertisement"; or
               (ii) The operation of any of the                   b. Infringing upon another's copyright, trade
                    machinery or equipment listed in                 dress or slogan in your "advertisement".
                    Paragraph f.(2) or f.(3) of the
                    definition of "mobile equipment".      C. The following definition is added to the Definitions
                                                              section:
B. The following exclusion is added to Paragraph 2.
   Exclusions of Coverage B – Personal And                    "Unmanned aircraft" means an aircraft that is not:
   Advertising Injury Liability:                              1. Designed;
   2. Exclusions                                              2. Manufactured; or
      This insurance does not apply to:                       3. Modified after manufacture;
      Unmanned Aircraft                                       to be controlled directly by a person from within or
      "Personal and advertising injury" arising out of        on the aircraft.
      the    ownership,    maintenance,      use    or
      entrustment to others of any aircraft that is an
      "unmanned aircraft". Use includes operation
      and "loading or unloading".




Page 2 of 2                          © Insurance Services Office, Inc., 2014                     CG 21 09 06 15
POLICY NUMBER: EV131585                                               COMMERCIAL GENERAL LIABILITY
                                                                                     CG 21 16 04 13

           THIS ENDORSEMENT CHANGES THE POLICY. PLEASE READ IT CAREFULLY.

       EXCLUSION – DESIGNATED PROFESSIONAL SERVICES
This endorsement modifies insurance provided under the following:

  COMMERCIAL GENERAL LIABILITY COVERAGE PART.

                                                SCHEDULE

                                      Description Of Professional Services
1. Any and all professional services.
2.
3.
Information required to complete this Schedule, if not shown above, will be shown in the Declarations.

With respect to any professional services shown in the    This exclusion applies even if the claims against any
Schedule, the following exclusion is added to Paragraph   insured allege negligence or other wrongdoing in the
2. Exclusions of Section I – Coverage A – Bodily          supervision, hiring, employment, training or monitoring
Injury And Property Damage Liability and Paragraph        of others by that insured, if the "occurrence" which
2. Exclusions of Section I – Coverage B – Personal        caused the "bodily injury" or "property damage", or the
And Advertising Injury Liability:                         offense which caused the "personal and advertising
This insurance does not apply to "bodily injury",         injury", involved the rendering of or failure to render any
"property damage" or "personal and advertising injury"    professional service.
due to the rendering of or failure to render any
professional service.




CG 21 16 04 13                     © Insurance Services Office, Inc., 2012                         Page 1 of 1
                                                                          COMMERCIAL GENERAL LIABILITY
                                                                                         CG 21 32 05 09

     THIS ENDORSEMENT CHANGES THE POLICY. PLEASE READ IT CAREFULLY.

                 COMMUNICABLE DISEASE EXCLUSION
This endorsement modifies insurance provided under the following:

   COMMERCIAL GENERAL LIABILITY COVERAGE PART

A. The following exclusion is added to Paragraph 2.        B. The following exclusion is added to Paragraph 2.
   Exclusions of Section I – Coverage A – Bodily              Exclusions of Section I – Coverage B – Per-
   Injury And Property Damage Liability:                      sonal And Advertising Injury Liability:
   2. Exclusions                                              2. Exclusions
      This insurance does not apply to:                          This insurance does not apply to:
      Communicable Disease                                       Communicable Disease
      "Bodily injury" or "property damage" arising out           "Personal and advertising injury" arising out of
      of the actual or alleged transmission of a com-            the actual or alleged transmission of a commu-
      municable disease.                                         nicable disease.
      This exclusion applies even if the claims                  This exclusion applies even if the claims
      against any insured allege negligence or other             against any insured allege negligence or other
      wrongdoing in the:                                         wrongdoing in the:
      a. Supervising, hiring, employing, training or             a. Supervising, hiring, employing, training or
          monitoring of others that may be infected                 monitoring of others that may be infected
          with and spread a communicable disease;                   with and spread a communicable disease;
      b. Testing for a communicable disease;                     b. Testing for a communicable disease;
      c. Failure to prevent the spread of the dis-               c. Failure to prevent the spread of the dis-
         ease; or                                                   ease; or
      d. Failure to report the disease to authorities.           d. Failure to report the disease to authorities.




CG 21 32 05 09                       © Insurance Services Office, Inc., 2008                        Page 1 of 1     
                                                                          COMMERCIAL GENERAL LIABILITY
POLICY NUMBER: EV131585
                                                                                         CG 21 35 10 01

     THIS ENDORSEMENT CHANGES THE POLICY. PLEASE READ IT CAREFULLY.

       EXCLUSION – COVERAGE C – MEDICAL PAYMENTS
This endorsement modifies insurance provided under the following:

  COMMERCIAL GENERAL LIABILITY COVERAGE PART

                                                  SCHEDULE

Description And Location Of Premises Or Classification:
 Any and all medical payments.




(If no entry appears above, information required to complete this endorsement will be shown in the Declarations as
applicable to this endorsement.)

With respect to any premises or classification                2. The following is added to Section I – Supple-
shown in the Schedule:                                           mentary Payments:
1. Section I – Coverage C – Medical Payments                     h. Expenses incurred by the insured for first
   does not apply and none of the references to it                  aid administered to others at the time of an
   in the Coverage Part apply: and                                  accident for "bodily injury" to which this in-
                                                                    surance applies.




CG 21 35 10 01                            © ISO Properties, Inc., 2000                             Page 1 of 1
                                                                        COMMERCIAL GENERAL LIABILITY
                                                                                       CG 21 47 12 07

     THIS ENDORSEMENT CHANGES THE POLICY. PLEASE READ IT CAREFULLY.

       EMPLOYMENT-RELATED PRACTICES EXCLUSION
This endorsement modifies insurance provided under the following:

   COMMERCIAL GENERAL LIABILITY COVERAGE PART

A. The following exclusion is added to Paragraph 2.,     B. The following exclusion is added to Paragraph 2.,
   Exclusions of Section I – Coverage A – Bodily            Exclusions of Section I – Coverage B – Per-
   Injury And Property Damage Liability:                    sonal And Advertising Injury Liability:
   This insurance does not apply to:                        This insurance does not apply to:
   "Bodily injury" to:                                      "Personal and advertising injury" to:
  (1) A person arising out of any:                         (1) A person arising out of any:
      (a) Refusal to employ that person;                      (a) Refusal to employ that person;
      (b) Termination of that person's employment;            (b) Termination of that person's employment;
          or                                                       or
     (c) Employment-related practices, policies,               (c) Employment-related practices, policies,
          acts or omissions, such as coercion, demo-                acts or omissions, such as coercion, demo-
          tion, evaluation, reassignment, discipline,               tion, evaluation, reassignment, discipline,
          defamation, harassment, humiliation, dis-                 defamation, harassment, humiliation, dis-
          crimination or malicious prosecution di-                  crimination or malicious prosecution di-
          rected at that person; or                                 rected at that person; or
  (2) The spouse, child, parent, brother or sister of       (2) The spouse, child, parent, brother or sister of
      that person as a consequence of "bodily injury"           that person as a consequence of "personal and
      to that person at whom any of the employment-             advertising injury" to that person at whom any
      related practices described in Paragraphs (a),            of the employment-related practices described
      (b), or (c) above is directed.                            in Paragraphs (a), (b), or (c) above is directed.
   This exclusion applies:                                   This exclusion applies:
  (1) Whether the injury-causing event described in         (1) Whether the injury-causing event described in
      Paragraphs (a), (b) or (c) above occurs before            Paragraphs (a), (b) or (c) above occurs before
      employment, during employment or after em-                employment, during employment or after em-
      ployment of that person;                                  ployment of that person;
  (2) Whether the insured may be liable as an em-           (2) Whether the insured may be liable as an em-
      ployer or in any other capacity; and                      ployer or in any other capacity; and
  (3) To any obligation to share damages with or            (3) To any obligation to share damages with or
      repay someone else who must pay damages                   repay someone else who must pay damages
      because of the injury.                                    because of the injury.




CG 21 47 12 07                           © ISO Properties, Inc., 2006                               Page 1 of 1     
                                                                          COMMERCIAL GENERAL LIABILITY
                                                                                         CG 21 67 12 04

     THIS ENDORSEMENT CHANGES THE POLICY. PLEASE READ IT CAREFULLY.

                       FUNGI OR BACTERIA EXCLUSION
This endorsement modifies insurance provided under the following:

   COMMERCIAL GENERAL LIABILITY COVERAGE PART

A. The following exclusion is added to Paragraph 2.        B. The following exclusion is added to Paragraph 2.
   Exclusions of Section I – Coverage A – Bodily              Exclusions of Section I – Coverage B – Per-
   Injury And Property Damage Liability:                      sonal And Advertising Injury Liability:
   2. Exclusions                                              2. Exclusions
      This insurance does not apply to:                           This insurance does not apply to:
      Fungi Or Bacteria                                           Fungi Or Bacteria
      a. "Bodily injury" or "property damage" which               a. "Personal and advertising injury" which
         would not have occurred, in whole or in part,               would not have taken place, in whole or in
         but for the actual, alleged or threatened in-               part, but for the actual, alleged or threat-
         halation of, ingestion of, contact with, expo-              ened inhalation of, ingestion of, contact
         sure to, existence of, or presence of, any                  with, exposure to, existence of, or presence
         "fungi" or bacteria on or within a building or              of any "fungi" or bacteria on or within a
         structure, including its contents, regardless               building or structure, including its contents,
         of whether any other cause, event, material                 regardless of whether any other cause,
         or product contributed concurrently or in any               event, material or product contributed con-
         sequence to such injury or damage.                          currently or in any sequence to such injury.
      b. Any loss, cost or expenses arising out of the            b. Any loss, cost or expense arising out of the
         abating, testing for, monitoring, cleaning up,              abating, testing for, monitoring, cleaning up,
         removing, containing, treating, detoxifying,                removing, containing, treating, detoxifying,
         neutralizing, remediating or disposing of, or               neutralizing, remediating or disposing of, or
         in any way responding to, or assessing the                  in any way responding to, or assessing the
         effects of, "fungi" or bacteria, by any insured             effects of, "fungi" or bacteria, by any insured
         or by any other person or entity.                           or by any other person or entity.
      This exclusion does not apply to any "fungi" or      C. The following definition is added to the Definitions
      bacteria that are, are on, or are contained in, a       Section:
      good or product intended for bodily consump-            "Fungi" means any type or form of fungus, includ-
      tion.                                                   ing mold or mildew and any mycotoxins, spores,
                                                              scents or byproducts produced or released by
                                                              fungi.




CG 21 67 12 04                             © ISO Properties, Inc., 2003                                Page 1 of 1     !
                                                                              COMMERCIAL GENERAL LIABILITY
                                                                                             CG 24 02 12 04

      THIS ENDORSEMENT CHANGES THE POLICY. PLEASE READ IT CAREFULLY.

                                     BINDING ARBITRATION
This endorsement modifies insurance provided under the following:

   COMMERCIAL GENERAL LIABILITY COVERAGE PART
   ELECTRONIC DATA LIABILITY COVERAGE PART
   LIQUOR LIABILITY COVERAGE PART
   OWNERS AND CONTRACTORS PROTECTIVE LIABILITY COVERAGE PART
   POLLUTION LIABILITY COVERAGE PART
   PRODUCTS/COMPLETED OPERATIONS LIABILITY COVERAGE PART
   PRODUCT WITHDRAWAL COVERAGE PART
   RAILROAD PROTECTIVE LIABILITY COVERAGE PART
   UNDERGROUND STORAGE TANK POLICY

If we and the insured do not agree whether coverage                2. Bear the expenses of the third arbitrator
is provided under this Coverage Part for a claim made                 equally.
against the insured, then either party may make a              Unless both parties agree otherwise, arbitration will
written demand for arbitration.                                take place in the county or parish in which the address
When this demand is made, each party will select an            shown in the Declarations is located. Local rules of
arbitrator. The two arbitrators will select a third. If they   law as to procedure and evidence will apply. A deci-
cannot agree within 30 days, either may request that           sion agreed to by two of the arbitrators will be binding.
selection be made by a judge of a court having juris-
diction. Each party will:
   1. Pay the expenses it incurs; and




CG 24 02 12 04                                 © ISO Properties, Inc., 2003                                Page 1 of 1     !
                                                                                                    IL 02 66 09 08

      THIS ENDORSEMENT CHANGES THE POLICY. PLEASE READ IT CAREFULLY.

                      UTAH CHANGES – CANCELLATION
                            AND NONRENEWAL
This endorsement modifies insurance provided under the following:

   CAPITAL ASSETS PROGRAM (OUTPUT POLICY) COVERAGE PART
   COMMERCIAL AUTOMOBILE COVERAGE PART
   COMMERCIAL GENERAL LIABILITY COVERAGE PART
   COMMERCIAL INLAND MARINE COVERAGE PART
   COMMERCIAL LIABILITY UMBRELLA COVERAGE PART
   COMMERCIAL PROPERTY COVERAGE PART
   CRIME AND FIDELITY COVERAGE PART
   EMPLOYMENT-RELATED PRACTICES LIABILITY COVERAGE PART
   EQUIPMENT BREAKDOWN COVERAGE PART
   FARM COVERAGE PART
   FARM UMBRELLA LIABILITY POLICY
   LIQUOR LIABILITY COVERAGE PART
   MEDICAL PROFESSIONAL LIABILITY COVERAGE PART
   POLLUTION LIABILITY COVERAGE PART
   PRODUCTS/COMPLETED OPERATIONS COVERAGE PART


A. The following is added to the Cancellation Com-          B. The following is added and supersedes any provi-
   mon Policy Condition:                                       sions to the contrary:
   7. If this policy has been in effect for more than          NONRENEWAL
      60 days or if this is a renewal of a policy we is-       1. If we elect to not renew this policy, we will mail,
      sued, we may cancel this policy only for one or             by first-class mail, written notice of nonrenewal
      more of the following reasons:                              to the first Named Insured, at the last mailing
      a. Nonpayment of premium;                                   address known to us, at least 30 days before
      b. Material misrepresentation;                              the expiration or anniversary date of this policy.
      c. Substantial change in the risk assumed                2. We need not mail this notice if:
          unless we should reasonably have foreseen                a. You have accepted replacement coverage;
          the change or contemplated the risk when                b. You have requested or agreed to nonre-
          entering the contract; or                                   newal; or
      d. Substantial breaches of contractual duties,              c. This policy is expressly designated as non-
          conditions or warranties.                                   renewable.
      If we cancel for nonpayment of premium, no-              3. If notice is mailed, proof of mailing is sufficient
      tice of cancellation must state the reason for              proof of notice.
      cancellation.
   8. With respect to the Commercial Automobile
      Coverage Part, the following applies in addition
      to the provisions of Paragraph 7. above:
      We may cancel this policy if your driver's li-
      cense, or the driver's license of a person who
      customarily drives a "covered auto", is sus-
      pended or revoked.
   9. Notice of cancellation must be delivered or
      mailed by first-class mail.




IL 02 66 09 08                              © ISO Properties, Inc., 2007                                Page 1 of 1     
                                                                                                   PI-ACL-001 (01/20)


        THIS ENDORSEMENT CHANGES THE POLICY. PLEASE READ IT CAREFULLY.


             ABSOLUTE CYBER LIABILITY AND ELECTRONIC EXCLUSION
       The following exclusion applies to all coverages afforded under this policy:


       This insurance does not apply to any loss, cost, expense, fine, penalty, error and omission, or damage
       alleging, arising out of or from, attributable to, or giving rise to:


                (1)   Any access to, collection or disclosure of, or failure to erase any person's or organization's
                      confidential or personal information, including but not limited to patents, trade secrets,
                      processing methods, customer lists, financial information, credit card information, health
                      information, biometrics, or any other type of nonpublic information; or
                (2)   Business interruption or suspension of operations as caused by any access, unauthorized
                      access, lack of access, delay in access, damage, manipulation, loss, or impairment to
                      Electronic Data or Electronic Media; or
                (3)   Cyber Extortion; or
                (4)   A Privacy Breach; or
                (5)   A Security Breach; or
                (6)   Any fraudulent communication through Electronic Media that impersonates any person or
                      organization, including but not limited to phishing or other social engineering techniques or
                      otherwise; or
                (7)   Any computer code, software, or programming; or
                (8)   Any Security Breach that results in any electronic thing or device or Electronic Media
                      malfunctioning, improperly functioning, non-functioning, failing to perform as the intended
                      user desired, or being electronically manipulated to perform in a way that causes harm to the
                      insured or others; or
                (9)   The loss, loss of use, misuse, delay, manipulation, corruption, damage, alteration,
                      destruction, distortion, erasure, or theft of, or inability to access or manipulate Electronic
                      Data or Electronic Media as a result of Cyber Extortion; or Privacy Breach; or Security
                      Breach
(10)   Any failure of utilities based upon, arising out of, or attributable to any mechanical or     electrical failure,
       interruption, or outage, however caused, including but not limited to any electrical power interruption or
       surge, brownout, blackout, short circuit, over voltage, or power fluctuation or outage to gas, water,
       telephone, cable, satellite, telecommunications, the internet, or any component thereof, including but not
       limited to hardware, software, or any other infrastructure as a result of Cyber Extortion; or Privacy Breach;
       or Security Breach.
(11)   This exclusion applies even if damages are claimed for notification costs, errors or omissions, credit
       monitoring expenses, forensic expenses, public relations expenses, or any other loss, cost, or expense
       incurred by the insured or others arising out of that which is described in Paragraphs (1) through (10) above.

       As used in this exclusion, the following definitions apply:
                                                         Page 1 of 3

                                     @2020 Philadelphia Consolidated Holding Corp.


       PI-ACL-001 (01/20)
                                                                                          PI-ACL-001 (01/20)


Computer hardware means the physical components of any computer system including CPU’s, memory
storage devices, storage media, and input/output devices and other peripheral devices and components
including but not limited to cable, connectors, fiber optics, networking equipment, electronic data storage
devices, input and output devices, backup facilities, wire, power supply units, keyboards, display monitors
and audio speakers.

Computer system means an electronic, wireless, web or similar systems (including all computer
hardware, computer programs and electronic data) used to process data or information in an analog,
digital, electronic or wireless format, including but not limited to, associated input and output devices, data
storage devices, networking equipment, wired or wireless peripherals, electronic backup facilities, and
media libraries, that is owned or leased, operated and controlled by the insured or operated by an
independent contractor authorized to provide Business Process Outsourcing services or outsourced
Information Technology services for the insured.

Corporate Information Breach means the public disclosure of an organization’s non-public information.

Cyber Extortion means any threat or connected series of threats communicated to the insured for
the purpose of demanding money, securities, or property, including but not limited to threats to
release, divulge, disseminate, corrupt, damage or destroy Electronic Data or Electronic Media;
introduce malware or malicious code into the insured’s computer system; electronically
communicate with the insured’s customers in order to fraudulently obtain personal information,
money, securities or property; or restrict or hinder access to the insured’s computer system,
Electronic Data or Electronic Media, including but not limited to ransomware.

Denial of service means unauthorized or unexpected interference or malicious attack by any person(s)
or entity(ies) that restricts or prevents access to a computer system by persons or entities authorized to
gain access to the computer system or electronic data.

Electronic Data means information, facts, blockchain, crypto currencies, or computer programs stored
as or on, created or used on, or transmitted to or from computer software, including but not limited to
systems and applications software, hard or floppy disks, CD-ROMs, DVDs, external drives, USB sticks,
tapes, drives, cells, microchip, data processing devices, or any other media which are used with
electronically controlled equipment. The term computer programs, referred to in the foregoing
description of Electronic Data, means a set of related electronic instructions which direct the
operations and functions of a computer or device connected to it, which enable the computer or
device to receive, process, store, retrieve, or send data.

Electronic Media means broadcast or storage media that take advantage of electronic technology. They
include television, radio, Internet, fax, Bluetooth, GPS, audio beacons, electronic data, and any other
medium that requires electricity or digital encoding of information.

.Malicious code means unauthorized and corrupting or harmful computer code, including but not limited
to computer viruses, spyware, Trojan horses, worms, logic bombs, and mutations of any of the preceding.

Privacy Breach means a common law or statutory breach of confidence or violation of any common law
or statutory rights to privacy, including but not limited to breach of a privacy policy, breach of a person’s
                                                 Page 2 of 3

                              @2020 Philadelphia Consolidated Holding Corp.


PI-ACL-001 (01/20)
                                                                                         PI-ACL-001 (01/20)


right of publicity, misappropriation of likeness, false light, intrusion upon a person’s seclusion, or public
disclosure of a person’s or animal’s private information. Privacy Breach will also include a Corporate
Information Breach.

Security breach means:

          1. Unauthorized access of the insured’s computer system or unauthorized use of
             computer systems including unauthorized access or unauthorized use resulting from the
             theft of a password from the insured’s computer system;

          2. A denial of service attack against your computer systems; or

          3. Infection of the insured’s computer system by malicious code or transmission of malicious
             code from the insured’s computer systems,

          whether any of the foregoing is a specifically targeted attack or a generally distributed attack.

Unauthorized access means the gaining of access to a computer system by an unauthorized person or
persons.

Unauthorized use means the use of a computer system by an unauthorized person or persons or an
authorized person in an unauthorized manner.

This Endorsement is an absolute exclusion for cyber liability, Electronic Data, Electronic Media and
Security Breaches. This Endorsement applies except if coverage is specifically and affirmatively provided
in the following coverage forms or endorsements issued by us and only in respect to the coverage afforded
in those coverage forms or endorsements. In no event will this Endorsement broaden any coverage
afforded in any coverage form or endorsement:

•  Cyber Security Liability Coverage Form
•  Cyber Security Liability Endorsement
•  Building and Personal Property Coverage Form
•  Fraudulent Inducement Insuring Agreement
•  Fraudulent Inducement Insuring Agreement - Broad Form
•  Fraudulent Impersonation
•  Fraudulent Impersonation Ultimate Cover
•  Business Income and Extra Expense Coverage Form
 • Computer Coverage Form
• Exclusion-Access or Disclosure of Confidential or Personal Information and Data-Related
   Liability-With Limited Bodily Injury Exception
•   Changes-Electronic Data



All other terms and conditions remain unchanged.

                                                Page 3 of 3

                              @2020 Philadelphia Consolidated Holding Corp.


PI-ACL-001 (01/20)
                                                                                                            PI-AS-005 (11/13)




          THIS ENDORSEMENT CHANGES THE POLICY. PLEASE READ IT CAREFULLY.

                          LIMITATION OF COVERAGE TO A SPECIFIED
                                  EVENT AND EVENT DATE




This endorsement modifies insurance provided under the following:

COMMERCIAL GENERAL LIABILITY COVERAGE PART

This insurance applies to “bodily injury”, “property damage” or “personal and advertising injury” occurring only during the
specified events and specified event dates listed in the schedule below.

                                                           Schedule

                                                                Specified Event Dates
Specified Event                              Start Date                                       Finish Date
Banquet                                     05/04/2024                                         05/05/2024




                                                          Page 1 of 1
                                                                                        PI-AS-006 (04/04)




 THIS ENDORSEMENT CHANGES THE POLICY. PLEASE READ IT CAREFULLY.


                EXCLUSION – PYROTECHNICIANS/FIREWORKS

This endorsement modifies insurance provided under the following:

    COMMERCIAL GENERAL LIABILITY COVERAGE PART


This insurance does not apply to “bodily Injury”, “property damage”, “personal and advertising injury” or
medical expense arising out of the ownership, maintenance, handling, storage, distribution, sale or use of
fireworks, flash-powder, or explosive compositions.




                                               Page 1 of 1
                                                                                         PI-AS-007 (04/04)




 THIS ENDORSEMENT CHANGES THE POLICY. PLEASE READ IT CAREFULLY.


                              EXCLUSION – PERFORMER(S)

This endorsement modifies insurance provided under the following:

    COMMERCIAL GENERAL LIABILITY COVERAGE PART


This insurance does not apply to “bodily Injury” to any person while performing in any exhibition,
demonstration, or special event sponsored by you.




                                                Page 1 of 1
                                                                                     PI-AS-010 (04/2004)




       THIS ENDORSEMENT CHANGES THE POLICY. PLEASE READ IT CAREFULLY


 ADDITIONAL INSURED: OWNERS AND / OR LESSORS OF PREMISES, LESSORS
         OF LEASED EQUIPMENT, SPONSORS OR CO-PROMOTERS

This endorsement modifies insurance provided under the following:
 COMMERCIAL GENERAL LIABILITY COVERAGE PART


This policy is amended to include as an additional Insured any person or organization of the types
designated below, but only with respect to liability arising out of your operations:

    1. Owners and / or lessors of the premises leased, rented, or loaned to you, subject to the following
       additional exclusions:
           a. This insurance applies only to an “occurrence” which takes place while you are a tenant in
               the premises;
           b. This insurance does not apply to “bodily injury” or “property damage” resulting from
               structural alterations, new construction or demolition operations performed by or on behalf
               of the owner and / or lessor of the premises;
           c. This insurance does not apply to liability of the owners and / or lessors for “bodily injury” or
               “property damage” arising out of any design defect or structural maintenance of the
               premises or loss caused by a premises defect.
         With respect to any additional insured included under this policy, this insurance does not apply to
         the sole negligence of such additional insured.

    2. Lessor of Leased Equipment, but only with respect to liability for “bodily injury”, “property damage”
       or “personal and advertising injury” caused, in whole or in part, by your maintenance, operation or
       use of equipment leased to you by such person(s) or organization(s) subject to the following
       additional exclusions:
            a. This insurance does not apply to any “occurrence” which takes place after the equipment
               lease expires.

    3. Sponsors

    4. Co-Promoters




                                                       Page 1 of 1
                                                                                                                            PI-AS-013 (04/04)

                THIS ENDORSEMENT CHANGES THE POLICY. PLEASE READ IT CAREFULLY.

                     EXCLUSION – MISCELLANEOUS ACTIVITIES AND DEVICES
This endorsement modifies insurance provided under the following:
      COMMERCIAL GENERAL LIABILITY COVERAGE PART


Each exclusion indicated by an “X” is added to the policy:

This insurance does not apply to “bodily injury”, “property damage”, or “personal and advertising injury”:

  X   Inverted Aerial Maneuver
      Arising out of the attempt to perform or performance of any inverted aerial maneuver by a skier from a jump:
       1.     Built by you or on your behalf; or
       2.     Built on your premises with your permission or knowledge.

  X   Amusement Device
      Arising out of the ownership, operation, maintenance, supervision, or use of any amusement device.

      For purposes of this exclusion, amusement device means any device or equipment a person rides for enjoyment, including, but
      not limited to, any mechanical or non-mechanical ride, slide, water slide (including any ski or tow when used in connection with a
      water slide), moonwalk or moon bounce, bungee operation or equipment. Amusement device also includes any vertical device or
      equipment used for climbing – either permanently affixed or temporarily erected. Amusement device does not include any video
      arcade or computer game.

  X   Bungee
      Arising out of the ownership, operation, maintenance, supervision, or use of any bungee operation or equipment whether owned,
      operated, maintained or used by you, any other insured or any other person or entity.

  X   Trampoline
      Arising out of the ownership, operation, maintenance, supervison, or use of any trampoline whether owned, operated, maintained
      or used by you, any other insured or any other person or entity.

      For purposes of this exclusion, trampoline includes any rebounding device except those which are four feet or less in diameter
      and whose surface is no more than two feet above floor level.

  X   Grass Skiing
      Arising out of grass skiing.

  X   Animals
      Arising out of injury or death to any animal.

  X   Object Propelled
      Arising out of any object propelled, whether intentionally or unintentionally, into a crowd by or at the direction of a “participant” or
      insured.

  X   "Participant"
      Arising out of the involvement of a participant in any activity, event or exhibition, including, but not limited to, any contest,
      physical training, sport, event, athletic activity, martial arts or stunt.




                                                                 Page 1 of 2
                                                                                                                             PI-AS-013 (04/04)


   X   Rodeo
       Arising out of any rodeo activity, including, but not limited to, bronco or bull riding, steer roping, team roping, barrel racing or
       horseback riding.

       Concert
       Arising out of a concert, show, or theatrical event.

   X   Performer
       Arising out of the involvement of any performer during any activity, event or exhibition, including, but not limited to any stunt,
       concert, show or theatrical event.


DEFINITION OF PARTICIPANT
For purposes of this endorsement, participant means any person who is participating, practicing, or is otherwise involved in an activity,
event or exhibition.




                                                                 Page 2 of 2
                                                                                 PI-AS-014 (04/2004)

                THIS ENDORSEMENT CHANGES THE POLICY. PLEASE READ IT CAREFULLY.

                 EARNED PREMIUM ENDORSEMENT (FULLY EARNED PREMIUM)
This endorsement modifies Insurance provided under the following:

      COMMERCIAL GENERAL LIABILITY COVERAGE PART
      LIQUOR LIABILITY COVERAGE PART
      EMPLOYEE BENEFIT LIABILITY COVERAGE PART
      COMMERCIAL AUTOMOBILE COVERAGE PART




Option 1 or 2 must be completed:

OPTION 1:

Premium fully earned at inception: $176.00 or 100%

      Balance earned: 05/04/2024
      (indicate when 100% of premium is earned)

      Total Premium: $176.00




OPTION 2:

Premium is fully earned as follows:

      Total Policy Premium is fully earned in the event of cancellation prior
      to:                      .
                (date)
      Total Policy Premium is fully earned in the event of cancellation after:
                               .
                (date)




                                                               Page 1 of 1
                                                                                                PI-GL-001(8/94)



  THIS ENDORSEMENT CHANGES THE POLICY. PLEASE READ IT CAREFULLY.


                                EXCLUSION - LEAD LIABILITY

This endorsement modifies insurance provided under the following:

COMMERCIAL GENERAL LIABILITY COVERAGE PART


The following exclusion is added to paragraph 2., Exclusions of COVERAGE A - BODILY INJURY AND
PROPERTY DAMAGE LIABILITY (Section 1 - Coverages) and paragraph 2., Exclusions of COVERAGE B -
PERSONAL AND ADVERTISING INJURY LIABILITY (Section 1 - Coverages):

This insurance does not apply to:

1. “Bodily injury,” “property damage,” or “personal and advertising injury” arising out of or caused by the
   actual or alleged:

    a. Exposure to or existence of lead, paint containing lead, or any other material or substance containing
       lead;

    b. Manufacture, distribution, sale, resale, rebranding, installation, repair, removal, encapsulation,
       abatement, replacement or handling of lead, paint containing lead, or any other material or substance
       containing lead;

    Whether or not the lead is or was at any time airborne as a particulate, contained in a product ingested,
    inhaled, transmitted in any fashion, or found in any form whatsoever.

2. Any legal obligation of any insured for indemnification or contribution due to damages arising out of “bodily
   injury,” “property damage” or “personal and advertising injury” caused by lead, paint containing lead, or
   any other substance or material containing lead.

3. Any loss, cost, expense or damages, whether direct or consequential, arising out of any:

    (a) Request, demand or order that any insured or others test for, monitor, clean up, remove, abate,
        contain, treat or neutralize lead, paint containing lead, or any other substance or material containing
        lead, or in any way respond to, or assess the effects of lead; or

    (b) Claim or suit related to, testing for, monitoring, cleaning up, removing, abating, containing, treating or
        neutralizing lead, paint containing lead, or any other substance or material containing lead or in any
        way responding to or assessing the effects of lead.




                                                  Page 1 of 1
                                                                                                PI-GL-002 (8/94)



  THIS ENDORSEMENT CHANGES THE POLICY. PLEASE READ IT CAREFULLY.

                           EXCLUSION - ASBESTOS LIABILITY
This endorsement modifies insurance provided under the following:

COMMERCIAL GENERAL LIABILITY COVERAGE PART


The following exclusion is added to paragraph 2., Exclusions of COVERAGE A - BODILY INJURY AND
PROPERTY DAMAGE LIABILITY (Section 1 - Coverages) and paragraph 2., Exclusions of COVERAGE B -
PERSONAL AND ADVERTISING INJURY LIABILITY (Section 1 - Coverages):

This insurance does not apply to:

“Bodily injury,” “property damage,” “personal injury” or “advertising injury” arising out of:

    1. Inhaling, ingesting or prolonged physical exposure to asbestos or goods or products containing
       asbestos;

    2. The use of asbestos in constructing or manufacturing any good, product or structure;

    3. The removal of asbestos from any good, product or structure; or

    4. The manufacture, sale, transportation, storage or disposal of asbestos or goods or products
       containing asbestos.

The coverage afforded by this policy does not apply to payment for the investigation or defense of any loss or
“suit,” injury or damage or any cost, fine or penalty or for any expense or claim or “suit” related to any of the
above.




                                                  Page 1 of 1
                                Philadelphia Indemnity Insurance Company
                                                                                         PI-SAM-006 (01/17)

 THIS ENDORSEMENT CHANGES THE POLICY. PLEASE READ IT CAREFULLY.

                       ABUSE OR MOLESTATION EXCLUSION
This endorsement modifies insurance provided under the following:

COMMERCIAL GENERAL LIABILITY COVERAGE PART

The following exclusion is added to Paragraph 2. Exclusions of SECTION I – COVERAGE A BODILY
INJURY AND PROPERTY DAMAGE LIABILITY and Paragraph 2. Exclusions of SECTION I –
COVERAGE B – PERSONAL AND ADVERTISING INJURY LIABILITY:

This insurance does not apply to any injury sustained by any person arising out of or resulting from the
alleged, actual or threatened abuse or molestation by anyone.

We shall not have any duty to defend any “suit” against any insured seeking damages on account of any
such injury.

This exclusion applies to all injury sustained by any person, including emotional distress, arising out of
molestation or abuse whether alleged, actual or threatened including but not limited to molestation or
abuse arising out of your negligence or other wrongdoing with respect to:

1. Hiring, placement, employment, training;

2. Investigation;

3. Supervision;

4. Reporting any molestation or abuse to the proper authorities, or failure to so report; or

5. Retention;

of a person for whom any insured is or ever was legally responsible or for whom any insured may have
assumed the liability; and whose conduct would be excluded above.




PI-SAM-006 (01/17)

                                                Page 1 of 1
             Includes copyrighted material of Insurance Services Office, Inc., with permission.
