                           Development Review Committee
                                1020 East Pioneer Road
                                  Draper, Utah 84020


                                     STAFF REPORT
                                       June 4, 2024

To:                Draper City Planning Commission
                   Business Date: June 13, 2024

From:              Development Review Committee

Prepared By:       Maryann Pickering, AICP, Planner III
                   Planning Division
                   Community Development Department
                   (801) 576-6391 or maryann.pickering@draperutah.gov

Re:     Danduboyina Zone Change – Zoning Map Amendment
        Application No.: 2024-0220-MA
        Applicant:        Sai Danduboyina, property owner
        Project Location: 11511 S. 700 West
        Current Zoning: RA1 (Residential Agricultural, 40,000 square foot lot minimum)
        Acreage:          Approximately 1.58 acres (68,824 square feet)
        Request:          Request is to amend the zoning designation from RA1 to RA2
                          (Residential Agricultural, 20,000 square foot lot minimum).



SUMMARY AND BACKGROUND
This application is a request for approval of a Zoning Map Amendment for approximately
1.58 acres located on the east side of 700 West, at approximately 11511 S. 700 West
(Exhibits C and D). The property is currently zoned RA1. The applicant is requesting that
the application be approved to allow for the development of the currently vacant site into
two lots in the future.

ANALYSIS
General Plan and Zoning.

 Table 1               General Plan and Zoning Designations                     Exhibit
 Existing Land Use     Residential Low/Medium Density                           Exhibit E



Danduboyina                                                         App. # 2024-0220-MA
Zoning Map Amendment                         1
 Current Zoning        RA1                                                        Exhibit F
 Proposed Zoning       RA2
 Adjacent Zoning
                       R3 (Residential Single-Family, 13,000 square foot lot
    East
                       minimum)
    West               RA1
    North              RA1
    South              RA1

The Residential Low/Medium Density land use designation is characterized as follows:




According to Draper City Municipal Code (DCMC) Section 9-8-020 the purpose of the RA1
and RA2 zones are “to foster low density development with little impact on its surroundings and



Danduboyina                                                           App. # 2024-0220-MA
Zoning Map Amendment                           2
municipal services; to generally preserve the character of the city's semirural areas; and to
promote and preserve conditions favorable to large lot family life, including the keeping of
limited numbers of animals and fowl. The predominant use in these zones is intended to be
detached single-family dwellings, protected from encroachment by commercial and industrial
uses.”

Both the current zoning of RA1 and the proposed zoning of RA2 have the same land use
designation as noted above. The difference between the two zoning designations is the
minimum lot size. The RA1 has a minimum lot size or approximately just under an acre at
40,000 square feet. The RA2 designation has a minimum of half that or 20,000, which is
just under half an acre. Both of the zoning designations do allow for animals, such as
horses. The zones typically are large lot single-family dwelling lots.

Criteria for Approval:
A Map Amendment is a matter committed to the legislative discretion of the City Council
and is not controlled by any one standard. However, in making a recommendation to the
City Council, the Planning Commission should consider the following factors in Section 9-5-
060(E) of the DCMC:

1.     Map Amendments:
       a.   Whether the proposed amendment is consistent with goals, objectives and
            policies of the city's general plan;
       b.   Whether the proposed amendment is harmonious with the overall character
            of existing development in the vicinity of the subject property;
       c.   Whether the proposed amendment is consistent with the standards of any
            applicable overlay zone;
       d.   The extent to which the proposed amendment may adversely affect adjacent
            property; and
       e.   The adequacy of facilities and services intended to serve the subject
            property, including, but not limited to, roadways, parks and recreation
            facilities, police and fire protection, schools, stormwater drainage systems,
            water supplies, and wastewater and refuse collection.



REVIEWS
Planning Division Review. The Draper City Planning Division has completed their review of
the Land Use Map Amendment, Zoning Map Amendment and Development Agreement
submissions. Comments from this division, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Engineering and Public Works Divisions Review. The Draper City Engineering and Public
Works Divisions have completed their reviews of the Land Use Map Amendment, Zoning
Map Amendment and Development Agreement submissions. Comments from these
divisions, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.



Danduboyina                                                            App. # 2024-0220-MA
Zoning Map Amendment                           3
Building Division Review. The Draper City Building Division has completed their review of the
Land Use Map Amendment, Zoning Map Amendment and Development Agreement
submissions. Comments from this division, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Fire Division Review. The Draper City Fire Marshal has completed his review of the Land Use
Map Amendment, Zoning Map Amendment and Development Agreement submissions.
Comments from this division, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Legal Division Review. The Draper City Attorney has completed his review of the Land Use
Map Amendment, Zoning Map Amendment and Development Agreement submissions.
Comments from this division, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Noticing. Notice has been properly issued in the manner outlined in the City and State
Codes.



STAFF RECOMMENDATION
Staff recommends that the Planning Commission review the requests, receive public
comment, and makes decisions based on the findings listed below and the criteria for
approval, or denial, as listed within the staff report.



MODEL MOTIONS AND FINDINGS
Sample Motion for Positive Recommendation – I move that we forward a positive
recommendation to the City Council for the Zoning Map Amendment, as requested by Sai
Danduboyina, application 2024-0220-MA, based on the following findings for approval as
listed in the Staff Report dated June 4, 2024.

Findings for Approval:
1.     The proposed zoning map amendment is consistent with goals, objectives, and
       policies of the city's general plan.
2.     The proposed zoning map amendment is harmonious with the overall character of
       existing development in the vicinity of the subject property.
3.     The proposed zoning map amendment is consistent with the standards of any
       applicable overlay zone.
4.     The proposed zoning map amendment will not adversely affect adjacent property.
5.     There are adequate facilities and services intended to serve the subject property,
       including, but not limited to, roadways, parks and recreation facilities, police and fire
       protection, schools, stormwater drainage systems, water supplies, and wastewater
       and refuse collection.
6.     (List additional findings for approval, if any…)




Danduboyina                                                            App. # 2024-0220-MA
Zoning Map Amendment                           4
Sample Motion for Negative Recommendation – I move that we forward a negative
recommendation to the City Council for the Zoning Map Amendment, as requested by Sai
Danduboyina, application 2024-0220-MA, based on the findings for approval listed in the
Staff Report dated June 4, 2024, based on the following findings for denial as listed in the
Staff Report dated June 4, 2024.

Findings for Denial:
1.     The proposed zoning map amendment is not consistent with goals, objectives, and
       policies of the city's general plan.
2.     The proposed zoning map amendment is not harmonious with the overall character
       of existing development in the vicinity of the subject property.
3.     The proposed zoning map amendment will adversely affect adjacent property.
4.     There are not adequate facilities and services intended to serve the subject
       property, including, but not limited to, roadways, parks and recreation facilities,
       police and fire protection, schools, stormwater drainage systems, water supplies,
       and wastewater and refuse collection




Danduboyina                                                          App. # 2024-0220-MA
Zoning Map Amendment                          5
                DEVELOPMENT REVIEW COMMITTEE ACKNOWLEDGEMENT

We, the undersigned, as duly appointed members of the Draper City Development Review
Committee, do acknowledge that the application which provides the subject for this staff
report has been reviewed by the Committee and has been found to be appropriate for
review by the Draper City Planning Commission and/or City Council.


                   Digitally signed by Brien Maxfield
                   DN: C=US,
                   E=brien.maxfield@draperutah.gov,                                        Digitally signed by Jennifer Jastremsky
Brien Maxfield     O=Draper, OU=Public Works -
                   Engineering, CN=Brien Maxfield                    Jennifer Jastremsky
                                                                                           DN: C=US, E=jennifer.jastremsky@draperutah.gov,
                                                                                           O=Draper City Community Development, CN=Jennifer
                                                                                           Jastremsky
                   Date: 2024.06.03 15:58:27-06'00'                                        Date: 2024.06.06 13:15:41-06'00'



Draper City Public Works Department                                  Draper City Planning Division



                                                                      Mike Barker
                       Digitally signed by Don Buckley
                       DN: C=US, E=don.buckley@draper.ut.us,                                   Digitally signed by Mike Barker
Don Buckley            O=Draper City Fire Department, OU=Fire
                       Marshal, CN=Don Buckley
                       Date: 2024.06.03 14:43:24-06'00'
                                                                                               Date: 2024.06.03 14:10:33 -06'00'


Draper City Fire Department                                          Draper City Legal Counsel


                        Digitally signed by Matthew Symes
                        DN: C=US, E=matt.symes@draperutah.gov,
 Matthew Symes          O=Draper City Corp., CN=Matthew Symes
                        Date: 2024.06.03 14:49:42-06'00'



Draper City Building Division




Danduboyina                                                                                App. # 2024-0220-MA
Zoning Map Amendment                                             6
                                       EXHIBIT A
                                  DEPARTMENT REVIEWS

REVIEWS ARE NOT MEANT TO BE AN ALL INCLUSIVE LIST OF POSSIBLE COMMENTS OR
CONDITIONS.

Planning Division Review.
No additional comments.

Building Division Review.
No additional comments.

Engineering and Public Works Divisions Review.
1.     The adequacy of facilities and services intended to serve the subject property,
       including but not limited to roadways, parks and recreation facilities, police and fire
       protection, schools, storm water drainage systems, water supplies, and waste water
       and refuse collection;
       Other than noted below, we are not aware of any inadequacies of the facilities
       intended to serve this property.
       a.     The change in zone from one residential/agricultural zone to an increased
              density residential/agricultural represents a minor increase in traffic based
              on the permitted or conditional uses within the zone. The proposed zone
              permits approximately half acre lots for single family residential units and
              potentially an associated accessory dwelling unit. The gross area of this lot
              would accommodate up to three lots. This density would generate up to
              three peak hour trips and 27 daily trips on the fronting street, 700 West. An
              ADU would add another peak hour trip and several daily trips. Based on the
              capacity of the fronting street, 700 West, a minor collector street, the
              additional trips are not a significant increase in traffic. The size of the parcel
              and the number of trips will not require mitigation measures, where
              mitigation is typically contemplated around 100 peak hour trips. There are
              no current public frontage improvements existing on the subject site. Curb,
              gutter, sidewalk, and park strip are required to complete the required public
              improvements.
       b.     Connectivity with the subject parcel to a public right-of-way is on 700 West, a
              minor collector street intended to accommodate increased traffic. Access
              locations are be required to meet Draper City Standards as outlined in our
              Master Transportation Plan and will be evaluated at the time of a site plan or
              subdivision application. It is noted that the potential private lane access to
              the parcel from 700 West for any subdivision has apparent utility conflicts
              and would be located along the south boundary of the existing parcel.
      c.    There are no existing storm drainage facilities fronting the subject parcel.
            Any future site drainage will be required to be addressed with any
            subdivision or site plan application, and shall comply with the provisions of
            the development requirements within the Draper City Municipal Code.
      d.    Sanitary sewer facilities will be provided by South Valley Sewer District. Any
            subdivision or site plan application will require a commitment to serve from
            the Sewer District that facilities are adequate to provide service for the
            proposed uses.
      e.    Drinking water is provided by the city to the subject parcel. Any subdivision
            or site plan application will require a commitment to serve from the city that
            facilities are adequate to provide service for the proposed uses.

Fire Division Review.
No additional comments.

Legal Division Review.
No additional comments.
                                 EXHIBIT B
                             LEGAL DESCRIPTION

A TRACT OF LAND BEING SITUATE IN THE SOUTHWEST QUARTER OF SECTION 24,
TOWNSHIP 3 SOUTH, RANGE 1 WEST, SALT LAKE BASE AND MERIDIAN, SAID TRACT BEING
MORE PARTICULARLY DESCRIBED AS FOLLOWS: BEGINNING AT A POINT WHICH IS SOUTH
745.08 FEET AND EAST 36.00 FEET FROM THE WEST QUARTER CORNER OF SAID SECTION
24, SAID POINT ALSO BEING ON THE EASTERLY RIGHT-OF-WAY LINE OF 700 WEST STREET,
AND RUNNING THENCE EAST 623.54 TO THE WESTERLY LINE OF BIG WILLOW CREEK PHASE
1B SUBDIVISION, ON FILE WITH THE OFFICE OF THE SALT LAKE COUNTY RECORDER IN
BOOK 2018P, AT PAGE 352 OF PLATS; THENCE SOUTH 06°29'53" WEST ALONG SAID
WESTERLY LINE A DISTANCE OF 111.96 FEET; THENCEWEST 610.87 TO THE EASTERLY
RIGHT-OF-WAY LINE OF 700 WEST STREET; THENCE NORTH ALONG SAID RIGHT-OF-WAY
LINE A DISTANCE OF 111.24 TO THE POINT OF BEGINNING.

CONTAINS 68,658 SQUARE FEET OR 1.576 ACRES, MORE OR LESS.
  EXHIBIT C
VICINITY MAP
 EXHIBIT D
AERIAL MAP
  EXHIBIT E
LAND USE MAP
 EXHIBIT F
ZONING MAP
                  EXHIBIT G
APPLICANT’S RESPONSE – ZONING MAP AMENDMENT
What is the requested zoning designation?
RA2

Please explain the reason for the request and justification for approval
The proposed rezone aims to maximize the use of vacant land in a transitional area while still
adhering to existing land use guidelines(RA). This change would not only contribute to the
revitalization and preservation of the existing neighborhood along 700 W but also provide an
additional household with a desirable and secure place to live. The property's location near the
11400 South and I15 interchange offers convenient access to major transit corridors, providing
numerous transportation options, both public and private.

How is the requested zoning designation harmonious with the overall character of
existing development in the vicinity of the subject property? Explain
The proposed rezone is considered harmonious for several reasons. Firstly, it aligns with the
Draper city's Land Use map, which permits Residential Low/Medium Density land use with RA2
zoning. Additionally, all properties on the north and south sides along 700 W are currently zoned
RA, making the proposed rezone consistent with the existing zoning pattern. Furthermore, there
is a recent development(Maple court) across the street on the west side that underwent a
similar rezone from RA1 to RA2, indicating a precedent for this type of change in the area.
Lastly, the properties to the east are zoned R3 and R4, which have higher density allowances
compared to the proposed rezone, further supporting the compatibility of the proposed change.

Are facilities and services, such as roadways and utilities sufficient to serve the property
under the proposed zoning? Explain
The proposed rezone could create an extra lot in a well-connected neighborhood with access to
utilities and roads.

Is the proposed zoning designation consistent with the goals, objectives and policies of
the City’s General Plan? Explain
The proposed zone change aligns with the 2019 Draper Moderate-Income Housing Plan, which
aims to promote a variety of housing options. This change would contribute to the revitalization
and preservation of the neighborhood along 700 W, as well as facilitate the development of the
vacant land through creative infill projects. Over the past five years, there have been various
development projects in progress or completed in the area between 11400 S and 12300 S,
involving rezoning to R3, R4, RH, and RA2, among others. The request for rezone seeks to
strike a balance between revitalizing the vacant lot and preserving the existing mature
neighborhood's RA land use along 700 W.

This proposed zone change satisfies several of the goals as drafted in the Draper City’s General
plan including but not limited to

Economic Vitality Goals:
GOAL EV-3 Sustain the long-term economic wellbeing of the city and its citizens through
redevelopment and revitalization efforts
Housing and Neighborhood Goals:
GOAL HN-1 Encourage housing diversity along major transit investment corridors
GOAL HN-2 Advance the preservation and revitalization of Draper’s mature neighborhoods to
ensure a healthy, safe, and attractive place to call home
GOAL HN-4 Provide a wide-range of housing for different life stages and income levels

Land Use & Character Goals:

GOAL LUC-1 Enhance Draper’s identity as a community with a high quality of life, a diverse
economic base, and a rich mixture of housing and leisure opportunities
GOAL LUC-3 Develop land use patterns that are compatible with and support a variety of
mobility opportunities, choices, and service provisions
GOAL LUC-4 Promote land use patterns that conserve resources such as land, clean air, water,
and energy, and serve all people within the community
GOAL LUC-5 Encourage the transition of land uses from more intense regional and citywide
activity areas to less intense land uses within local neighborhoods
