                                 Development Review Committee
                                      1020 East Pioneer Road
                                        Draper, UT 84020
                                                 April 22, 2024

To:              Draper City Planning Commission
                 Business Date: May 9, 2024

From:            Development Review Committee

Prepared By: Todd Taylor, Planner III
             Planning Division
             Community Development Department
             801-576-6510, todd.taylor@draperutah.gov

Re:     Power Stitch, LLC – Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit Request
        Application No.: 2023-4666-USE
        Applicant:        Adriana Reyes, representing Leroy and Andrea Carter
        Project Location: 690 E 12100 S
        Current Zoning: RA2 (Residential Agricultural, 20,000 ft² lot minimum) and
                          RA1 (Residential Agricultural, 40,000 ft² lot minimum) zones
        Acreage:          1.07 Acres (Approximately 46,609 ft2)
        Request:          Request for approval of a Home Occupation Conditional Use
                          Permit in the RA2 and RA1 zones for a cottage business that
                          makes canvas and nylon bags.



BACKGROUND AND SUMMARY

This application is a request for approval of a Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit for
approximately 1.07 acres located at 690 E 12100 S (Exhibits B & C). The property is primarily
zoned RA2, with a small portion zoned RA1 at the rear. The applicant is requesting that a
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit be approved to allow a cottage business that
makes canvas and nylon bags.

The property is part of the Draperville plat. According to County records, the dwelling was
built in 1980 and is approximately 2,057 ft2 in size. The business is located in the dwelling
unit and is labeled as a “shop” on the floor plan (Exhibit F).




Power Stitch                                                      App. No. 2023-4666-USE
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit Request         1
ANALYSIS

General Plan and Zoning.

 Table 1                   General Plan and Zoning Designations                  Exhibit
 Existing Land Use         Residential Low-Medium Density                        Exhibit D
 Current Zoning            RA2, RA1                                              Exhibit E
 Existing Use              Single Family Residential
 Adjacent Zoning
     East                  RA1
     West                  RA1
     North                 RA2
     South                 RA1

The Residential Low-Medium Density land use designation is characterized as follows:




Power Stitch                                                      App. No. 2023-4666-USE
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit Request   2
According to Draper City Municipal Code (DCMC) Section 9-8-020: “The purpose of the RA1 and
RA2 zones is to foster low density development with little impact on its surroundings and municipal
services; to generally preserve the character of the city's semirural areas; and to promote and
preserve conditions favorable to large lot family life, including the keeping of limited numbers of
animals and fowl. The predominant use in these zones is intended to be detached single-family
dwellings, protected from encroachment by commercial and industrial uses.”

Home Occupation.
The DCMC Section 9-34-040 outlines development standards applicable to all home
occupations. Those criteria, along with information specific to the subject request, are as
follows:

    A. Ownership: The home occupation shall be owned and operated by a person who resides
       in the dwelling where the home occupation is located. Such person shall be the primary
       provider of the labor, work, or service provided in the home occupation.

        The business owner, resides on the property, and is the sole provider of the business

    B. Business License: A business license for the home occupation shall be obtained from and
       continually maintained with the city pursuant to Title 6, Chapter 11 of this code.

        As a condition of approval, a business license will be obtained and maintained with
        Draper City.

    C. Employees: Members of the family of the owner who reside in the dwelling may be
       employed in the home occupation. Nonfamily or nonresident employees shall be limited
       to one person.

        The business owner is the only employee.

    D. Inspection: All facilities shall comply with fire, building, plumbing, electrical and all other
       city, county, state and federal codes. Inspections during reasonable hours by city officials
       may occur as necessary to assure compliance with regulations.

        Inspections for compliance with fire, building, plumbing, and electrical code will be
        completed as part of the business license review process. No modification or changes
        to the property are proposed at this time and the applicant assures that they will
        comply with the other regulations.

    E. Inventory: No stock in trade, inventory, or other merchandise to exceed two hundred fifty
       (250) square feet shall be kept on the premises. No outside storage is allowed.




Power Stitch                                                              App. No. 2023-4666-USE
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit Request    3
         No stock in trade, inventory or other merchandise that is located on the premises will
         exceed 250 ft2. There is no outside storage.

    F. Modification Of Structures Or Yards: There shall be no visible evidence from the exterior
       of a dwelling that it is being used for any other purpose than that of a dwelling. No
       activities shall be carried on outside the dwelling in the yard for the benefit of or
       incidental to the home occupation. No front yard area shall be altered to provide parking
       required for a home occupation.

         There will be no modification of structures and no business activities will be
         conducted outside in the yard. No yard area will be altered.

    G. Nuisance: Tools, items, equipment, or activities conducted within the dwelling which is
       offensive or noxious by reason of the emission of odor, smoke, gas, vibration, magnetic
       interference, or noise shall be prohibited.

         The business operations will not create any of the listed nuisances.

    H. Secondary Use: The home occupation shall be clearly incidental and secondary to the
       primary use of the dwelling for residential purposes. The home occupation shall not
       disrupt the normal residential character of the neighborhood in which the residence is
       located. Not more than twenty five percent (25%) of the dwelling unit shall be used for
       the home occupation.

         The area for the home occupation will be in a room labeled as a “shop” on the
         submitted floor plans (Exhibit F) and will not exceed 25% of the primary dwelling.

    I.   Signs: All signage in a residential area must comply with Chapter 26, "Signs", of this title.

         No signs will be used.

    J.   Traffic, Parking, And Access: No home occupation use shall generate pedestrian, parking,
         or vehicular traffic in excess of that customarily associated with the zone in which the use
         is located. All parking shall be provided and maintained on site with adequate provision
         for drop off traffic.

         The applicant retrieves materials from another location using her personal vehicle,
         makes the bags in the dwelling, and returns the assembled bags to that other
         location. The business will not have customers coming to the dwelling, therefore
         there will be no increase in traffic.

    K. Vehicles: Other than the business owner's personal transportation, there shall be no
       vehicles or equipment on the property associated with the home occupation which would



Power Stitch                                                              App. No. 2023-4666-USE
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit Request     4
        not normally be found at a residence. No signage for the home occupation shall be
        allowed on vehicles.

        The applicant retrieves materials from another location using her personal vehicle,
        makes the bags in the dwelling, and returns the assembled bags to that other
        location. No vehicles other than business owner’s personal transportation will be
        utilized for the business. No signage will be on vehicles.

    L. Yards: Yards surrounding the dwelling and accessory buildings shall not be used for any
       activities or storage of any materials associated with the home occupation.

        Yards will not be used for any activities or storage of any materials associated with
        the business (see Exhibits G and H).

    M. Customers: No customers allowed. Children accessing a limited daycare or limited
       preschool facility shall not be considered customers.

        The applicant retrieves materials from another location using her personal vehicle,
        makes the bags in the dwelling, and returns the assembled bags to that other
        location. The business will not have customers coming to the dwelling.

    N. Utility Demand: The home occupation shall not cause a demand for public utilities in
       excess of that necessarily and customarily provided for residential uses.

        The home occupation will not create an excessive demand to existing public utilities.

    O. Main Structure: The home occupations shall be conducted, located, and contained within
       the primary structure on the property.

        The business will be conducted in a room labeled as a “shop” on the submitted floor
        plans (Exhibit F) which is located within the primary structure on the property.

    P. Single-Family And Multiple-Family Dwellings: Home occupations listed as permitted or
       conditional within this title may be permitted in a single-family or a multiple-family
       dwelling, subject to the standards found within this section and Section 9-34-060 of this
       chapter. Businesses within multiple-family dwellings shall provide an approval letter from
       the respective homeowners' association, or management company in the case of
       apartments, if the business proposes any employees, customers or business vehicles.

        The business is located in a single-family dwelling. A cottage business is listed as an
        allowable conditional use in Chapter 34. A cottage business is defined in Section 9-3-
        040 as “a business where products are created in the home. The products are unique in
        nature, such as handicraft, art, and jewelry. Limited food production can also be



Power Stitch                                                         App. No. 2023-4666-USE
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit Request   5
        considered. Anything that uses a material, a mixture of materials or a quantity of
        materials that could be classified by the fire marshal or building official as dangerous or
        hazardous will not be allowed.”

    Q. Licensure: Any home occupation involving childcare shall comply with all applicable state
       and local laws and regulations regarding residential childcare, including, but not limited
       to, provisions of the Utah child care licensing act, as set forth in Utah Code Annotated
       section 26-39-101 et seq., as amended, and the residential certificate childcare standards
       as set forth in the Utah administrative code section R430-50-1 et seq., as amended. In
       addition, cottage food production operations are regulated and inspected by the Utah
       department of agriculture. Any food related home occupation under their jurisdiction
       must comply with these regulations.

        This business does not include childcare or food handling.

The applicant’s responses to each of the individual Criteria A thru Q above are included in
this report as Exhibit H.

Criteria For Approval.
The criteria for review and potential approval of a conditional use permit request is found in
Section 9-5-080(E) of the DCMC. This section depicts the standard of review for such requests
as:

    E. Approval Standards: The standards of this subsection shall apply to the issuance of a
       conditional use permit:
       1. A conditional use permit may be issued for a use to be located within a zone where
          the particular conditional use is allowed by the use regulations of the zone.
       2. Reasonable conditions may be imposed as necessary to substantially mitigate
          reasonably anticipated detrimental effects of the proposed use. These conditions may
          include conditions concerning use, construction, character, location, landscaping,
          screening, parking, hours of operation, and other matters relating to the purposes
          and objectives of this section. Such conditions shall be expressly set forth in the
          motion authorizing the conditional use permit.
       3. If the reasonably anticipated detrimental effects of a proposed conditional use
          cannot be substantially mitigated by the imposition of reasonable conditions to
          achieve compliance with applicable standards, the conditional use may be denied.
       4. The following factors shall be reviewed and considered in determining whether a
          conditional use permit application should be approved, approved with conditions, or
          denied because reasonable conditions cannot be imposed to achieve compliance with
          applicable standards:
          a. The harmony and compliance of the proposed use with the objectives and
               requirements of the city's general plan and this title;
          b. The suitability of the specific property for the proposed use;



Power Stitch                                                            App. No. 2023-4666-USE
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit Request   6
           c. Whether the proposed use or facility may be injurious to potential or existing
              development in the vicinity;
           d. The economic impact of the proposed facility or use on the surrounding area;
           e. The aesthetic impact of the proposed facility or use on the surrounding area;
           f. The safeguards proposed or provided to ensure adequate utilities, transportation
              access, drainage, parking, loading space, lighting, screening, landscaping, open
              space, fire protection, and pedestrian and vehicular circulation;
           g. The safeguards provided or proposed to prevent noxious or offensive emissions
              such as noise, glare, dust, pollutants and odor from the proposed facility or use;
              and
           h. The impact of the proposed facility or use on the health, safety, and welfare of the
              city, the area, and persons owning or leasing property in the area.
        5. The planning commission may request additional information as may be reasonably
           needed to determine whether the requirements of this subsection E can be met.

The applicants’ individual responses to the approval criteria listed in Section 9-5-080(E)(4)
above are contained in Exhibit H of the staff report.



REVIEWS

Planning Division Review. The Draper City Planning Division has completed their review of the
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit submission. Comments from this division, if any,
can be found in Exhibit A.

Engineering and Public Works Divisions Review. The Draper City Engineering and Public Works
Divisions have completed their reviews of the Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit
submission. Comments from these divisions, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Building Division Review. The Draper City Building Division has completed their review of the
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit submission. Comments from this division, if any,
can be found in Exhibit A.

Fire Division Review. The Draper City Fire Marshal has completed his review of the Home
Occupation Conditional Use Permit submission. Comments from this division, if any, can be
found in Exhibit A.

Noticing. Notice has been properly issued in the manner outlined in the City and State Codes.



STAFF RECOMMENDATION

Staff recommends that the Planning Commission review the request, receive public



Power Stitch                                                          App. No. 2023-4666-USE
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit Request   7
comment, and approve the Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit for Power Stitch, LLC
based on the findings for approval as listed below and the criteria for approval as listed
within the staff report.

If the Planning Commission decides to approve the request, staff recommends they include
the following conditions of approval:

    1. That all requirements of the Draper City Engineering, Public Works, Building, Business
       Licensing, Planning, and Fire Divisions are satisfied throughout the operation of the
       business.
    2. A business license shall be obtained and maintained for the life of the business.



MODEL MOTIONS AND FINDINGS

Sample Motion for Approval – I move that we approve the Home Occupation Conditional
Use Permit, as requested by Adriana Reyes, Application No. 2023-4666-USE, based on the
findings below and subject to the conditions listed in the staff report dated April 22, 2024.

Findings for approval:

    1. Reasonable mitigation measures are placed on the conditional use to alleviate
       anticipated detrimental effects.

Sample Motion for Modified Approval – I move that we approve the Home Occupation
Conditional Use Permit, as requested by Adriana Reyes, Application No. 2023-4666-USE,
subject to the conditions listed in the staff report dated April 22, 2024, and per the following
findings and additional conditions:

Findings for approval:

    1. Reasonable mitigation measures are placed on the conditional use to alleviate
       anticipated detrimental effects.
    2. List any additional findings…

Additional Conditions:

    1. List any additional conditions…

Sample Motion for Denial - I move that we deny the Home Occupation Conditional Use
Permit, as requested by Adriana Reyes, Application No. 2023-4666-USE, based on the
following findings:




Power Stitch                                                         App. No. 2023-4666-USE
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit Request   8
Findings for denial:

    1. Reasonable mitigation measures cannot be placed on the conditional use to
       sufficiently alleviate anticipated detrimental effects.




Power Stitch                                             App. No. 2023-4666-USE
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit Request   9
                                      EXHIBIT A
                                 DEPARTMENT REVIEWS

REVIEWS ARE NOT MEANT TO BE AN ALL INCLUSIVE LIST OF POSSIBLE COMMENTS OR
CONDITIONS.



Planning Division Review.

       1.      No additional comments provided.

Engineering and Public Works Divisions Review.

       1.      No additional comments provided.

Building Division Review.

       1.      No additional comments provided.

Fire Division Review.

       1.      No additional comments provided.
  EXHIBIT B
VICINITY MAP
 EXHIBIT C
AERIAL MAP
  EXHIBIT D
LAND USE MAP
 EXHIBIT E
ZONING MAP
 EXHIBIT F
FLOOR PLAN
EXHIBIT G
SITE PLAN
      EXHIBIT H
APPLICANT’S RESPONSES
Power Stitch business description

Manufacturing and sewing textile bags and canvas mills
Hours of operation 8:AM to 5:PM Monday to Friday
No required parking
No employees
No noise or traffic will be affect the neighborhood
No need for site improvements
No customers will be approaching
