                                 Development Review Committee
                                         1020 East Pioneer Road
                                           Draper, UT 84020
                                           December 29, 2023

To:              Draper City Planning Commission
                 Business Date: January 11, 2024

From:            Development Review Committee

Prepared By: Tevai Haunga, Planner I
             Planning Division
             Community Development Department
             801-576-6522, tevai.haunga@draperutah.gov

Re:     Automatic Gate Installers Inc.– Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit
        Request
        Application No.: USE-0068-2023
        Applicant:        Todd and Janet Olsen, representing the Olsen Family Trust
                          8/30/2018
        Project Location: 706 E Osborne Estate Circle
        Current Zoning: RA2 (Single Family 20,000 sq. ft. minimum lot size)
        Acreage:          0.46 Acres (Approximately 20,038 square feet)
        Request:          Request for approval of a Home Occupation in the RA2 zone for a
                          home office with additional non-resident employees and work
                          vehicles.

BACKGROUND AND SUMMARY
This application is a request for approval of a Home Occupation for approximately 0.46
acres located at approximately 706 E. Osborne Estate Circle (Exhibit B & C). The property is
zoned RA2. The applicants are requesting that a Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit
be approved for a home office with (2) non-family, non-resident employees coming to the
home, and for the storage and use of two (2) work vehicles as part of the business.

The property is part of the Osborne Estates Subdivision and the home was built in 2000.
The business has been licensed and in operation since 2001 as a permitted use, home
office, without non-resident employees or additional work vehicles (Exhibit I). In 2023, in
response to complaints received regarding parking, it was discovered that the business was
operating outside of the home occupation permitted use standards and that a conditional
use permit would be required for the business to continue operating in its current manner.



Automatic Gate Installers, Inc.                                   App. # USE-0068-2023
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit             1
ANALYSIS
General Plan and Zoning.

 Table 1                   General Plan and Zoning Designations                   Exhibit
 Existing Land Use         Residential Low-Medium Density                         Exhibit D
 Current Zoning            RA2                                                    Exhibit E
 Proposed Use
 Adjacent Zoning
    East                   RA2
    West                   RA2
    North                  RA2
    South                  RA2

The Residential Low-Medium Density land use designation is characterized as follows:




Automatic Gate Installers, Inc.                                   App. # USE-0068-2023
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit         2
According DCMC Section 9-8-020 the purpose of the RA2 zone is to “foster low density
development with little impact on its surroundings and municipal services; to generally preserve
the character of the city's semirural areas; and to promote and preserve conditions favorable to
large lot family life, including the keeping of limited numbers of animals and fowl. The
predominant use in these zones is intended to be detached single-family dwellings, protected
from encroachment by commercial and industrial uses.

Home Occupation.
The applicants run an automatic gate installation and service business. The applicants have
maintained a business license since 2001 as a Home Occupation, home office only (Exhibit
I). No non-resident employees were permitted under the original license. Current
ordinance limits non-family or non-resident employees to one (1). The applicants are
requesting a Conditional Use Permit for a home office with two (2) non-family, non-resident
employees coming to the home, and for two (2) work vehicle’s to be parked on-site. Hours
of operation are Monday – Friday 8:30 am – 4:30 pm. The applicants have indicated that the
employees will park in the garage and driveway on the property.

The DCMC Section 9-34-040 outlines development standards applicable to all home
occupations. Those criteria, along with information specific to the subject request, are as
follows:

        A. Ownership: The home occupation shall be owned and operated by a person who
           resides in the dwelling where the home occupation is located. Such person shall be
           the primary provider of the labor, work, or service provided in the home occupation.

             -The home occupation is owned by residents of the home. The owners indicate
             they are the primary providers of labor. Two (2) additional employees also
             provide labor for operation of the business.

        B. Business License: A business license for the home occupation shall be obtained from
           and continually maintained with the city pursuant to title 6, chapter 11of this code.

             -A current business license will be maintained with the City of Draper.

        C. Employees: Members of the family of the owner who reside in the dwelling may be
           employed in the home occupation. Nonfamily or nonresident employees shall be
           limited to one person.

             -The applicants have two (2) employees who do not reside in the home. The
             applicants are requesting approval as part of the conditional use permit to allow
             two (2) non-resident employees for the business.




Automatic Gate Installers, Inc.                                      App. # USE-0068-2023
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit          3
        D. Inspection: All facilities shall comply with fire, building, plumbing, electrical and all
           other city, county, state and federal codes. Inspections during reasonable hours by
           city officials may occur as necessary to assure compliance with regulations.

             -The applicant will comply with fire, building, plumbing, electrical, and all other
             city, county, state and federal codes.

        E. Inventory: No stock in trade, inventory, or other merchandise to exceed two hundred
           fifty (250) square feet shall be kept on the premises. No outside storage is allowed.

             -The applicants have agreed to store any inventory and merchandise inside and
             to take no more than 250 sq. ft. to do so. Outside storage will not be allowed.
             Staff has included this in the suggested mitigating conditions for approval.

        F. Modification Of Structures Or Yards: There shall be no visible evidence from the
           exterior of a dwelling that it is being used for any other purpose than that of a
           dwelling. No activities shall be carried on outside the dwelling in the yard for the
           benefit of or incidental to the home occupation. No front yard area shall be altered to
           provide parking required for a home occupation.

             -The applicants have indicated that they do not intend to make any
             modifications to the property contrary to this standard. The applicants
             understand that no business activities are to be carried on outside of the
             dwelling. Staff notes the lack of sufficient on-site parking for all personal and
             work-related vehicles and has included a potential mitigation to increase the off-
             street parking by at least one stall.

        G. Nuisance: Tools, items, equipment, or activities conducted within the dwelling which is
           offensive or noxious by reason of the emission of odor, smoke, gas, vibration,
           magnetic interference, or noise shall be prohibited.

             -The applicants have indicated that they will comply with this standard.

        H. Secondary Use: The home occupation shall be clearly incidental and secondary to the
           primary use of the dwelling for residential purposes. The home occupation shall not
           disrupt the normal residential character of the neighborhood in which the residence
           is located. Not more than twenty five percent (25%) of the dwelling unit shall be used
           for the home occupation.

             - The business activities conducted at the home include office operations and
             overnight storage of associated work vehicles. Services are conducted off-site at
             the job address. The applicants do not have vendors or customers coming to the




Automatic Gate Installers, Inc.                                          App. # USE-0068-2023
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit             4
             home. The applicant has stated the home office is in a spare bedroom totaling
             around 200 square feet (Exhibit G).

        I.   Signs: All signage in a residential area must comply with chapter 26, "Signs", of this
             title.

             -The applicants have indicated that they have no signs on the property related to
             the business and have indicated that they do not intend to put up any signage.

        J.   Traffic, Parking, And Access: No home occupation use shall generate pedestrian,
             parking, or vehicular traffic in excess of that customarily associated with the zone in
             which the use is located. All parking shall be provided and maintained on site with
             adequate provision for drop off traffic.

             -The applicants initially indicated that work vehicles were parked on a
             neighboring property to accommodate both the work and personal vehicles on
             property. The applicants have indicated that they will now provide all parking
             associated with the business on-site. This consists of the personal vehicles for
             the two (2) employees as well as two (2) work vehicles owned by the business. A
             minimum of two (2) parking spaces within the garage are the minimum required
             parking for the residence.

             Current development standards do not permit the additional work vehicles
             without a conditional use permit. In addition to the vehicles associated with the
             business, reportedly six (6) personal vehicles are in operation from the property
             by residents of the property. The applicants can currently park three (3) vehicles
             in the garage with three (3) vehicles parked in tandem behind the garage. The
             work vehicles are switched out for the employee’s personal vehicles at the start
             of the day and switched back after work is done. Personal vehicles in excess of
             available on-site parking spaces would be parked on the street, or potentially at
             the neighboring property. The applicant has indicated that family members
             currently living at the residence that account for two (2) of the six (6) personal
             vehicles are planning to move out soon.

             Staff is concerned that as the applicant will continue to displace private vehicles
             being operated from the residence onto the street and neighboring properties,
             that negative impacts to the neighborhood will continue. Aerial photography
             (Exhibit F) shows vehicles parked in an illegal manner in the cul-de-sac near the
             home which supports the concern and complaint received. The number of
             vehicles associated with the property and location of the property on a cul-de-
             sac have created traffic and parking volumes in excess of what is customary for a
             daily basis on a residential cul-de-sac in the RA2 zone and approval of a
             conditional use permit would require mitigation of these impacts. Staff has



Automatic Gate Installers, Inc.                                          App. # USE-0068-2023
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit             5
             included a condition that at a minimum, one (1) additional paved parking stall be
             added to the west of the existing driveway to help alleviate the amount of off-
             site parking occurring on the street.

        K. Vehicles: Other than the business owner's personal transportation, there shall be no
           vehicles or equipment on the property associated with the home occupation which
           would not normally be found at a residence. No signage for the home occupation
           shall be allowed on vehicles.

             - All ten (10) vehicles associated with the property are passenger type vehicles
             that would be normally found at a residence. There is no signage on the work
             vehicles.

        L. Yards: Yards surrounding the dwelling and accessory buildings shall not be used for
           any activities or storage of any materials associated with the home occupation.

             -The applicants have indicated that they will not use accessory buildings and
             yard area to store any business-related materials or for business activities

        M. Customers: No customers allowed. Children accessing a limited daycare or limited
           preschool facility shall not be considered customers.

             -The applicants will not have any customers or vendors coming to the home.

        N. Utility Demand: The home occupation shall not cause a demand for public utilities in
           excess of that necessarily and customarily provided for residential uses.

            -The home occupation will not create an excessive demand for public utilities.

        O. Main Structure: The home occupations shall be conducted, located, and contained
           within the primary structure on the property.

             -Office work is done in a spare bedroom in the home. The majority of the work is
             done off-site.

        P. Single-Family And Multiple-Family Dwellings: Home occupations listed as permitted or
           conditional within this title may be permitted in a single-family or a multiple-family
           dwelling, subject to the standards found within this section and section 9-34-060 of
           this chapter. Businesses within multiple-family dwellings shall provide an approval
           letter from the respective homeowners' association, or management company in the
           case of apartments, if the business proposes any employees, customers or business
           vehicles.




Automatic Gate Installers, Inc.                                      App. # USE-0068-2023
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit          6
             -The home occupation is in a single-family dwelling and there is no HOA. The use
             of a home office is listed as a permitted use, however the manner in which the
             applicants operate the business with additional non-resident employees and
             additional work vehicles does not conform to the permitted use standards, thus
             a conditional use permit is required.

        Q. Licensure: Any home occupation involving childcare shall comply with all applicable
           state and local laws and regulations regarding residential childcare, including, but
           not limited to, provisions of the Utah child care licensing act, as set forth in Utah
           Code Annotated section 26-39-101 et seq., as amended, and the residential certificate
           childcare standards as set forth in the Utah administrative code section R430-50-1 et
           seq., as amended. In addition, cottage food production operations are regulated and
           inspected by the Utah department of agriculture. Any food related home occupation
           under their jurisdiction must comply with these regulations.

             -This home business does not include childcare or food handling.

Criteria For Approval.
The criteria for review and potential approval of a conditional use permit request is found
in Section 9-5-080(E) of the DCMC. This section depicts the standard of review for such
requests as:

        E. Approval Standards: The standards of this subsection shall apply to the issuance of a
            conditional use permit:
         1. A conditional use permit may be issued for a use to be located within a zone where
            the particular conditional use is allowed by the use regulations of the zone.
         2. Reasonable conditions may be imposed as necessary to substantially mitigate
            reasonably anticipated detrimental effects of the proposed use. These conditions may
            include conditions concerning use, construction, character, location, landscaping,
            screening, parking, hours of operation, and other matters relating to the purposes
            and objectives of this section. Such conditions shall be expressly set forth in the
            motion authorizing the conditional use permit.
         3. If the reasonably anticipated detrimental effects of a proposed conditional use
            cannot be substantially mitigated by the imposition of reasonable conditions to
            achieve compliance with applicable standards, the conditional use may be denied.
         4. The following factors shall be reviewed and considered in determining whether a
            conditional use permit application should be approved, approved with conditions, or
            denied because reasonable conditions cannot be imposed to achieve compliance with
            applicable standards:
              a. The harmony and compliance of the proposed use with the objectives and
                 requirements of the city's general plan and this title;
              b. The suitability of the specific property for the proposed use;




Automatic Gate Installers, Inc.                                     App. # USE-0068-2023
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit          7
              c. Whether the proposed use or facility may be injurious to potential or existing
                  development in the vicinity;
              d. The economic impact of the proposed facility or use on the surrounding area;
              e. The aesthetic impact of the proposed facility or use on the surrounding area;
              f. The safeguards proposed or provided to ensure adequate utilities, transportation
                  access, drainage, parking, loading space, lighting, screening, landscaping, open
                  space, fire protection, and pedestrian and vehicular circulation;
              g. The safeguards provided or proposed to prevent noxious or offensive emissions
                  such as noise, glare, dust, pollutants and odor from the proposed facility or use;
                  and
              h. The impact of the proposed facility or use on the health, safety, and welfare of the
                  city, the area, and persons owning or leasing property in the area.
          5. The planning commission may request additional information as may be reasonably
             needed to determine whether the requirements of this subsection E can be met.

REVIEWS
Planning Division Review. The Draper City Planning Division has completed their review of
the Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit submission. Comments from this division, if
any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Engineering and Public Works Divisions Review. The Draper City Engineering and Public
Works Divisions have completed their reviews of the Home Occupation Conditional Use
Permit submission. Comments from these divisions, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Building Division Review. The Draper City Building Division has completed their review of the
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit submission. Comments from this division, if any,
can be found in Exhibit A.

Fire Division Review. The Draper City Fire Marshal has completed his review of the Home
Occupation Conditional Use Permit.

Noticing. Notice has been properly issued in the manner outlined in the City and State
Codes.



STAFF RECOMMENDATION
Staff recommends that the Planning Commission review the request based on the findings
listed below and the criteria for approval, or denial as listed within the staff report. The
Planning Commission should also review the request, hear from the applicant, and receive
public comment prior to making a decision.

If the Planning Commission decides to approve the request, staff recommends they include
the following conditions of approval:



Automatic Gate Installers, Inc.                                        App. # USE-0068-2023
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit            8
        1. That all business requirements of the Draper City Engineering, Public Works
            Building, Business Licensing, Planning and Fire Divisions are satisfied throughout
            the operation of the business.
        2. A business license shall be maintained for the life of the business.
        3. No customers are allowed to come to the property.
        4. That the hours of operation for the business remain within the typical business
            hours of 8 am to 5 pm.
        5. That the number of non-resident employees not exceed two (2).
        6. That the number of work vehicles associated with the business not exceed two
            (2).
        7. That a minimum of two (2) on-site parking spaces be designated and available
            for parking of personal employee vehicles, and that a minimum of two (2) on-site
            parking spaces be designated and available for parking of the two (2) work
            vehicles.
        8. That the minimum required two (2) parking spaces located inside of a garage for
            the parking of personal vehicles owned and operated by residents of the
            dwelling continue to be maintained for the residential use. These shall be
            separate from and unimpeded by parking stalls utilized for the business.
        9. That a minimum of one (1) additional parking space be added to the west of the
            current driveway access to allow the non-resident employees to park onsite
            when arriving to pick up their work vehicle.
        10. That employee start and end times be staggered by at least fifteen (15) minutes
            so that only one non-resident employee is coming to and leaving the property
            with their work vehicle at a time.
        11. That the conditional use permit for the business may be revoked if at any time in
            the future, vehicles associated with the residence or business are found to be
            parked in an illegal manner on the street (Osborne Estate Circle).
    12.     No stock in trade, inventory, or other merchandise to exceed two hundred fifty
            (250) square feet shall be kept on the premises. No outside storage is allowed.
    13.     No nuisance may be caused through tools, items, equipment, or activities
            conducted at the property which are offensive or noxious by reason of the
            emission of odor, smoke, gas, vibration, magnetic interference, or noise.

The findings for approval as are follows:

        1. Reasonable mitigation measures can be placed on the conditional use to
           alleviate anticipated detrimental effects, including parking.
        2. The proposed use will not, under the circumstances of the particular case, be
           detrimental to the health, safety, or general welfare of persons residing or
           working in the vicinity, or injurious to property or improvements in the vicinity.
        3. The proposed use of the particular location is necessary or desirable to provide
           a service or facility which will contribute to the general well-being of the



Automatic Gate Installers, Inc.                                    App. # USE-0068-2023
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit         9
           neighborhood and the community.
        4. The proposed use will comply with applicable regulations and conditions
           specified in ordinance and will comply with the intent of the City General Plan.

The findings for denial as are follows:

        1. Reasonable mitigation measures cannot be placed on the conditional use to
           alleviate anticipated detrimental effects, including parking.
        2. The proposed use will be detrimental to the health, safety, or general welfare of
           persons residing or working in the vicinity, or injurious to property or
           improvements in the vicinity.
        3. The proposed use of the particular location is not necessary or desirable to
           provide a service or facility which will contribute to the general well-being of the
           neighborhood and the community.
        4. The proposed use does not comply with applicable regulations and conditions
           specified in ordinance or does not comply with the intent of the City General
           Plan.



MODEL MOTIONS
Sample Motion for Approval – I move that we approve the Automatic Gate Installers, Inc.
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit, as requested by Todd and Janet Olsen
representing application USE-0068-2023 based on the findings and subject to the
conditions listed in the Staff Report dated December 29, 2023.

Sample Motion for Modified Approval– I move that we approve the Automatic Gate
Installers, Inc. Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit, as requested by Todd and Janet
Olsen representing application USE-0068-2023 based on the findings and subject to the
conditions listed in the Staff Report dated December 29, 2023and as modified by the
findings and conditions below:

        1. List any additional findings and conditions…

Sample Motion for Denial – I move that we deny the Automatic Gate Installers, Inc. Home
Occupation Conditional Use Permit, as requested by Todd and Janet Olsen representing
application USE-0068-2023 based on the findings and subject to the conditions listed in the
Staff Report dated December 29, 2023.

.




Automatic Gate Installers, Inc.                                     App. # USE-0068-2023
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit         10
                                       EXHIBIT A
                                  DEPARTMENT REVIEWS

REVIEWS ARE NOT MEANT TO BE AN ALL INCLUSIVE LIST OF POSSIBLE COMMENTS OR
CONDITIONS.

Planning Division Review.

       1. No additional comments provided.

Engineering and Public Works Divisions Review.
   1. The present and future requirements for transportation, traffic, water, sewer, and other
       utilities for the subject site do not appear to be detrimentally impacted as described.
       Given the location and proposed use, the use is not anticipated to generate a significant
       impact to water, sewer, or other potential utilities.

   2. The number of trips generated by the home owner/employees will not have a
      detrimental impact to traffic in the area due to two employees and no customers
      visiting the residence. The applicant has indicated all services will be provided offsite
      where the employees meet at the residence and then leave to conduct service calls.
      With the applicant’s anticipation that there will be no more than two employees and
      no customers, no significant impact to traffic is anticipated with the proposed use.

   3. No on-street parking is requested for the employees in the application. The applicant
      indicates all home business parking will be in the driveway onsite. Osborne Estate
      Circle is a public local street where on-street parking is currently permitted. Parking
      on Osborne Estate Circle may impact traffic if it is during poor weather or if there are
      other cars parked on the opposite side or within the cul-de-sac of the street nearby.
      However, based on the information from the applicant, no significant impact to
      parking is anticipated with the proposed use.

   4. The proposed use does not appear detrimental to the health, safety, or general
      welfare of the persons residing or working in the vicinity, or injurious to the property
      or improvements to the vicinity.



Building Division Review.

       1. No additional comments provided.

Fire Division Review.
1. No additional comments provided.
  EXHIBIT B
VICINITY MAP
 EXHIBIT C
AERIAL MAP
  EXHIBIT D
LAND USE MAP
 EXHIBIT E
ZONING MAP
EXHIBIT F
SITE PLAN
      EXHIBIT G
HOME OFFICE FLOOR PLAN
      EXHIBIT H
APPLICANT STATEMENTS
              EXHIBIT I
ORIGINAL BUSINESS LICENSE APPLICATION
