MEMO
To: City Council
From: Todd Draper, AICP
Date: 2024-05-14
Re: Public Hearing: Ordinance #1611


Comments:


This application is a request for approval of a Zoning Map Amendment on approximately
5.27 acres located on the north side of 13940 S., at approximately 132 W. 13490 S. The
property is currently zoned DC with the proposed zone change to the CBP zone. The
applicant is requesting that a Zoning Map Amendment be approved to allow for a
commercial vehicle and equipment rental or sale use, specifically for a heavy equipment
dealership.



Findings for Approval:



  1. The proposed amendment is harmonious with the overall character of existing
     development in the vicinity of the subject property
  2. The proposed amendment is consistent with the standards of any applicable
     overlay zone.
  3. The proposed amendment will not adversely affect adjacent property.
  4. The facilities and services intended to serve the subject property are adequate
     including, but not limited to, roadways, parks and recreation facilities, police and fire
     protection, schools, storm water drainage systems, water supplies, and wastewater
     and refuse collection.



Findings for Denial:



  1. The proposed amendment is not consistent with goals, objectives and policies of
     the city’s general plan.
  2. The proposed amendment is not harmonious with the overall character of existing
     development in the vicinity of the subject property.
  3. The proposed amendment is not consistent with the standards of any applicable
     overlay zone.
  4. The proposed amendment will adversely affect adjacent property.
  5. The facilities and services intended to serve the subject property are not adequate
     including, but not limited to, roadways, parks and recreation facilities, police and fire
     protection, schools, storm water drainage systems, water supplies, and wastewater
     and refuse collection.


ATTACHMENTS:

Ordinance #1611.pdf
ATTACHMENTS:

Banasky Rentals MA Staff Report.pdf
