                                      ORDINANCE NO. 1624

        AN ORDINANCE OF DRAPER CITY AMENDING THE TEXT OF THE LAND USE AND
        DEVELOPMENT CODE (TITLE 9) OF THE DRAPER CITY MUNICIPAL CODE RELATING
        TO DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENTS AND RESIDENTIAL REAR YARD SETBACKS.

       WHEREAS, Utah State law grants to Draper City the authority to regulate uses of property
by enacting land use regulations, among other methods; and

      WHEREAS, it is necessary from time to time to amend certain terms of the Draper City
Municipal Code to comply with statutes enacted by the Utah State Legislature; and

      WHEREAS, the Land Use and Development Code of the Draper City Municipal Code has
been established to provide regulations concerning development activity within the City
Boundaries; and

       WHEREAS, the City Council of Draper City adopted the Land Use and Development Code
to guide development within the City Boundaries; and

        WHEREAS, the City Council of Draper City finds good cause to revise the terms and
provisions of the Land Use and Development Code in response to changes in Utah State Code;
and

       WHEREAS, notice has been issued according to the requirements of the Utah Code
Annotated and Draper City Municipal Code for public hearings before the Planning Commission
and City Council to receive public input regarding the revision of the Land Use and Development
Code; and

       WHEREAS, the Planning Commission and City Council have each held a public hearing to
receive public input regarding the revision of the Land Use and Development Code.

      NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF DRAPER CITY, STATE OF
UTAH, AS FOLLOWS:

        Section 1.       Findings. The City Council of Draper City has made the following findings:
1) The proposed amendment is consistent with goals, objectives and policies of the City's General
Plan; 2) The proposed amendment is appropriate given the context of the request and there is
sufficient justification for a modification to the development codes; 3) The proposed amendment
will not create a conflict with any other section or part of the development codes or the General
Plan; 4) The potential effects of the proposed amendment have been evaluated and are
determined not to be detrimental to public health, safety, or welfare and represents an overall
community benefit; and 5) The proposed text amendment implements best current, professional
practices of urban planning, design, and engineering practices.




Ordinance No. 1624                              1                           City Initiated 2024 Legislative
                                                                                 Zoning Text Amendment
      Section 2.   Amendment. Sections 9-5-200 and 9-27-140 of the Land Use and
Development Code are hereby revised to read as set forth in Exhibit A.

       Section 3.      Correction of Editing Errors. The city attorney is authorized to correct any
punctuation, spelling, formatting, clerical, or de minimum errors in Exhibit A prior to submitting
the ordinance for publishing.

        Section 4.    Severability. If any section, part or provision of this Ordinance is held
invalid or unenforceable, such invalidity or unenforceability shall not affect any other portion of
this Ordinance, and all sections, parts and provisions of this Ordinance shall be severable.

       Section 5.     Effective Date. This Ordinance shall become effective immediately upon
publication or posting, or 30 days after final passage, whichever is closer to the date of final
passage.

PASSED AND ADOPTED BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF DRAPER CITY, STATE OF UTAH, ON THE 17th
DAY OF SEPTEMBER, 2024.

                                                     DRAPER CITY



                                                     _____________________________
                                                     Mayor Troy K. Walker

ATTEST:



_________________________________
Laura Oscarson, MMC, City Recorder



 VOTE TAKEN:                                           YES                     NO

 Councilmember Green

 Councilmember Johnson

 Councilmember T. Lowery

 Councilmember F. Lowry

 Councilmember Roberts

 Mayor Walker


Ordinance No. 1624                               2                          City Initiated 2024 Legislative
                                                                                 Zoning Text Amendment
                                           EXHIBIT A

9-5-200: DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENTS:
A. Purpose: A development agreement may be negotiated and executed between a developer
and the City to set forth the specific requirements, elements and any other aspects of a
development. containing any term that the City considers necessary, including a term related to:
    1. A master planned development;
    2. A planned unit development;
    3. an annexation;
    4. affordable or moderate income housing with development incentives;
    5. a public-private partnership; or
    6. a density transfer or bonus within a development project or between development
        projects.
…
D. Limitations:
…
    3. The City may require a development agreement for developing land within the City if the
        applicant has applied for a legislative or discretionary approval, including an approval
        relating to:
        a. the height of a structure;
        b. a parking or setback exception;
        c. a density transfer or bonus;
        d. a development incentive;
        e. a zone change; or
        f. an amendment to a prior development agreement.
    4. The City may not require a development agreement as a condition for developing land
        within the City if:
        a. the development otherwise complies with applicable statute and City ordinances;
        b. the development is an allowed or permitted use; or
        c. the City’s land use regulations otherwise establish all applicable standards for
            development on the land.
    5. The City may submit to the County Recorder’s office for recording:
        a. a fully executed agreement; or
        b. a document related to:
                i. code enforcement;
                ii. a special assessment area;
                iii. a local historic district boundary; or
                iv. the memorializing of enforcement of an agreed upon restriction, incentive, or
                     covenant.
    6. Subject to 9-5-200(D)(5), the City may not cause to be recorded against private real
        property a document that imposes development requirements, development
        regulations, or development controls on the property.
   3 7. To the extent that a development agreement does not specifically address a matter or
       concern related to land use or development, the matter or concern is governed by;
       a. Utah Code Annotated 10-9a-530, as amended; and
       b. Applicable land use regulations of this Title.
…
9-27-140: LOTS AND YARDS:
…
I. Yards To Be Unobstructed; Exceptions: Every part of a required yard shall be open to the sky,
unobstructed except for:
     1. Accessory buildings and structures located in a rear or side yard that comply with the
         accessory building setbacks for the zone;
     2. The ordinary projections of window bays, roof overhangs, skylights, sills, belt courses,
         cornices, chimneys, flues and other ornamental features, which shall not project into a
         required yard not more than two and one-half feet (2 1/2');
     3. Open or lattice enclosed fire escapes, fireproof outside stairways and balconies open upon
         fire towers balconies or vestibules that projecting into a required yard not more than five
         feet (5'); or
     4. Any part of an uncovered deck or, patio, or walkout porch less than three feet (3') in height,
         excluding nonopaque railings.; or
     5. Uncovered exterior landings, balconies, and stairways that comply with fire and building
         code requirements and all the following:
         a. Are located in a rear or side yard;
         b. Are no more than thirty-two (32) square feet in size;
         c. Connect to and provide for ingress to and egress from a dwelling; and
         d. Project into a required yard not more than five feet (5’).
…
