                              ORDINANCE NO. 1601

      AN ORDINANCE OF DRAPER CITY AMENDING THE TEXT OF THE LAND
      USE AND DEVELOPMENT CODE (TITLE 9) AND THE LAND
      DEVELOPMENT CODE (TITLE 17) OF THE DRAPER CITY MUNICIPAL
      CODE RELATING TO A NEW PROCESS FOR SUBDIVISION REVIEW AND
      APPROVAL BASED ON SENATE BILL 174.

      WHEREAS, Utah State law grants to Draper City the authority to regulate uses
of property by enacting land use regulations, among other methods; and

       WHEREAS, it is necessary from time to time to amend certain terms of the
Draper City Municipal Code to comply with statutes enacted by the Utah State
Legislature; and

       WHEREAS, the Land Use and Development Code and the Land Development
Code of the Draper City Municipal Code (collectively the “Development Codes”) have
been established to provide regulations concerning development activity within the
City Boundaries; and

      WHEREAS, the City Council of Draper City adopted the Development Codes to
guide development within the City Boundaries; and

      WHEREAS, the City Council of Draper City finds good cause to revise the terms
and provisions of the Development Codes in response to changes in Utah State Code;
and

       WHEREAS, notice has been issued according to the requirements of the Utah
Code Annotated and Draper City Municipal Code for public hearings before the
Planning Commission and City Council to receive public input regarding the revision
of the Development Codes; and

      WHEREAS, the Planning Commission and City Council have each held a public
hearing to receive public input regarding the revision of the Development Codes.

      NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF DRAPER CITY,
STATE OF UTAH, AS FOLLOWS:
        Section 1. Findings. The City Council of Draper City has made the
following findings that the proposed text amendments to the Development Codes:
1. The proposed amendment is consistent with goals, objectives and policies of the
city's general plan. 2. The proposed amendment is appropriate given the context of
the request and there is sufficient justification for a modification to the
Development Codes. 3. The proposed amendment will not create a conflict with
any other section or part of the Development Codes or the general plan. 4. The
potential effects of the proposed amendment have been evaluated and determined
to be beneficial to public health, safety, and welfare and represent an overall
community benefit. 5. The proposed text amendment implements best current,
professional practices of urban planning, design, and engineering practices. 6. The
proposed text amendment complies with state law.

      Section 2. Amendment. Section 9-3-040 of the Land Use and Development
Code and Sections 17-1-040, 17-1-060, 17-1-070, 17-1-080, 17-1-085, 17-1-120, 17-2-
010, 17-2-020, 17-2-030, 17-2-040, 17-3-020, 17-3-030, 17-3-035, 17-3-040, 17-3-060,
17-4-010, 17-4-020, 17-4-030, 17-4-040, 17-4-070, 17-4-090, 17-4-100, 17-4-110, 17-4-
120, 17-7-010, 17-8-020, 17-8-030, 17-8-040, 17-8-050, 17-9-010, 17-9-020, 17-9-030,
17-9-040, 17-9-050, and 17-9-060 of the Land Development Code of the Draper City
Municipal Code are hereby revised to read as set forth in Exhibit A.

      Section 3. Repealed. Sections 17-1-075, 17-2-050, 17-2-060, 17-4-050, 17-4-
060 and 17-4-080 of the Land Development Code of the Draper City Municipal Code
are hereby repealed to as set forth in Exhibit A.

      Section 4. Enactment. Section 17-4-035 of the Land Development Code of
the Draper City Municipal Code is hereby enacted to read as set forth in Exhibit A.

       Section 5. Correction of Editing Errors. The city attorney is authorized to
correct any punctuation, spelling, formatting, clerical, or de minimum errors in
Exhibit A prior to submitting the ordinance for publishing.

       Section 6. Severability. If any section, part or provision of this Ordinance
is held invalid or unenforceable, such invalidity or unenforceability shall not affect
any other portion of this Ordinance, and all sections, parts and provisions of this
Ordinance shall be severable.
       Section 7. Effective Date.      This Ordinance shall become effective
immediately upon publication or posting, or 30 days after final passage, whichever is
closer to the date of final passage.

PASSED AND ADOPTED BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF DRAPER CITY, STATE OF UTAH,
ON THE 16TH DAY OF JANUARY, 2024.

                                             DRAPER CITY



                                             _____________________________
                                             Mayor Troy K. Walker

ATTEST:



_________________________________
Laura Oscarson, MMC, City Recorder



VOTE TAKEN:                                    YES                   NO

Councilmember Green

Councilmember Johnson

Councilmember T. Lowery

Councilmember F. Lowry

Councilmember Roberts

Mayor Walker
                                       EXHIBIT A


9-3-040: DEFINITIONS:

…

LOT LINE ADJUSTMENT: The relocation of a lot line boundary between adjoining lots
or between a lot and adjoining parcels in accordance with Title 17, whether or not
the lots are located in the same subdivision, and with the consent of the owners of
records. This definition does not include new boundary lines that would create an
additional lot, constitute a subdivision or a subdivision amendment, or a boundary
line adjustment made by the Utah Department of Transportation.

…

SUBDIVSION AMENDMENT: An amendment to a recorded subdivision that: vacates all or
a portion of the subdivision; alters the outside boundary of the subdivision; changes the
number of lots within the subdivision; alters a public right-of-way, a public easement, or
public infrastructure within the subdivision; or alters a common area or other common
amenity within the subdivision. This definition does not include a lot line adjustment,
between a single lot and an adjoining lot or parcel, that alters the outside boundary of
the subdivision.

…

17-1-040: DEFINITIONS:

…

CONCEPT PLAN: A sketch or concept drawing, plus other basic requirements submitted
prior to the preliminary plat application for subdivisions to enable the potential
subdivider to reach general agreement with the city as to the form of the plan and the
objectives of these regulations and to receive guidance from the Development Review
Committee in a pre-application meeting as to the requirements for subdivisions within
the city.

…

DEVELOPMENT REVIEW COMMITTEE: See Development Review Committee in Section 9-
4-080 of this Code.

…
FAMILY: Any of the following who occupy a dwelling unit: See definition of family in
Section 9-3-040 of this code.

A. One person living alone;

B. Two (2) or more persons related by blood, marriage, or adoption, and foster children
living together as a single housekeeping unit; and up to two (2) other persons hired for
compensation such as nannies, servants, gardeners, custodians or security guards
residing on the same premises where the housekeeping unit is located;

C. Up to five (5) unrelated individuals living together as a single housekeeping unit; or

D. A group of persons with a disability living in a residential facility for persons with a
disability as permitted by this title.

…

PLANNING COMMISSION: The planning commission of Draper City, Utah. The planning
commission acts as the administrative land use authority for preliminary subdivision
plats.

…

ZONING ADMINISTRATOR: The person appointed by the City Manager to perform the
duties and responsibilities of Zoning Administrator, as defined by the City Zoning
Ordinance (Title 9). Unless otherwise designated by the Community Development
Director or City Council, the Community Development Director shall perform this
function.

…

17-1-060: GENERAL RESPONSIBILITIES:

A. The subdivider shall prepare subdivision concept plans and plats consistent
with the City development standards and shall pay for the design, City review,
construction and City inspection of all public improvements and private storm drain
and on site culinary water within City's service area. The City shall process said
plans and plats in accordance with the regulations set forth herein. The subdivider
shall not alter the terrain or remove any vegetation from the proposed subdivision
site or engage in any site development until subdivider has obtained the necessary
approvals as described in title 18, "Land Disturbance", of this Code, and this title.
The subdivider is responsible to obtain and be familiar with all applicable
subdivision ordinances, rules and standards of the City.
…

C. Plats and/or plans of proposed subdivisions may be referred by the Zoning
Administrator to any City departments and special districts, governmental boards,
bureaus, utility companies, and other agencies which will provide public and private
facilities and services to the subdivision for their information and comment. The Zoning
Administrator is responsible for coordinating any comments received from public and
private entities and shall decide which agencies to refer proposed subdivision plats and
plans to.

D. The City Engineer shall review for compliance the engineering plans and
specifications for the City required improvements for the subdivision and whether the
proposed City required improvements are consistent with this title, City design and
construction standards, and other applicable ordinances and shall be responsible for
inspecting the City required public improvements, private storm drain and on site
culinary water improvements within the City's service area, security proceeds collection
and administration, and the collection of certain fees. Street layout and overall circulation
shall be coordinated with the City Engineer transportation planning by the Zoning
Administrator.

E. The City Operations Division Public Works Director shall review and make comments
on the design engineering plans and specifications for the City required improvements
related to long term maintenance and preservation provisions, snowplowing, snowplow
storage areas, waste management collection and vehicle turnaround, City culinary water
infrastructure and service lateral maintenance, streetlight service and all other related
aspects pertaining to public works utility and infrastructure maintenance to the City
Engineer and the Zoning Administrator. The Public Works Director may assist the City
Engineer in performing inspections.

F. Upon completion of the staff review process, theThe Planning Commission shall
receive public comment at the hold a public hearing meeting to consider the regarding
proposed preliminary subdivisions plat application. The Planning Commission may
approve, approve with conditions or, if the project does not meet City ordinances or
sanitary sewer or culinary water requirements specified in section 17-3-040, deny the
preliminary or final subdivision plat application. If a final subdivision plat application
complies with the City code and the preliminary subdivision plat approval, the Zoning
Administrator shall approve the final subdivision plat application.

G. The City Attorney shall verify that the security proceeds provided by the subdivider is
acceptable, that the subdivider dedicating land for use of the public is the owner of
record, that the land is free and clear of unacceptable encumbrances according to the
title report submitted by the subdivider, and may review matters of title such as
easements and restrictive covenants prior to signing the mylar of the final plat.

…

17-1-070: COMPLIANCE REQUIRED:

A. It shall be unlawful for any person to subdivide any tract or parcel of land which is
located wholly or in part in the City except in compliance with this title. No plat of any
subdivision shall be recorded until it has been submitted and approved as set forth
herein. A plat shall not be approved if the Planning Commission or Zoning Administrator
determines such plat to be in conflict with any provision or portion of the general plan,
master traffic and transportation plan, zoning ordinance, this title, or any other State law
or City ordinance.

…

H. There shall be no occupancy of any building in any commercial subdivision until an
occupancy permit has been issued. Furthermore, it shall be unlawful for any subdivider
to sell any portion of an approved and recorded commercial subdivision until the
prospective buyer or builder has been advised that occupancy permits will not be issued
until all required improvements are completed. A certificate of occupancy will not be
issued until the following conditions are met at the commercial lot where an occupancy
permit is requested and all work is acceptable to the city and appropriate agencies:

1. All necessary utilities are installed; e.g., culinary water lines, sanitary sewer, flood
control facilities, electric power, and natural gas lines.

2. Finished road surfaces are installed.

3. All building code requirements are met as confirmed by the building official or his
appointee.

4. All city conditions of approval have been met.

5. Street trees have been installed or bonded for in accordance with section 17-5-060 of
this title.

17-1-075: LAND USE EXEMPTIONS FOR SINGLE FAMILY DWELLINGS: REPEALED

A. For a period of ten (10) years after the day on which a subdivision plat is recorded,
the City may not impose on a building permit applicant for a single-family dwelling
located within the subdivision any land use regulation that is enacted within 10 years
after the day on which the subdivision plat is recorded.

B. Subsection A does not apply to changes in the requirements of the applicable
building code, health code, fire code, or other similar regulations.

C. All other accessory buildings, appurtenances, and construction on the same lot that
are not a part of the single-family dwelling must meet current land use regulations and
ordinances.

D. After the ten (10) year period following the recordation of the subdivision has been
reached, construction of and additions to single-family dwellings located in the
subdivision must meet the then current land use regulations and ordinances.

17-1-080: REQUIRED CERTIFICATES, PERMITS AND REVIEWS:

A. Application: Applications for each of the separate stages of subdivision approval
(concept plan, preliminary plat, and final plat) shall be made to the city's community
development department. Applications shall be made on the respective forms provided
and shall be accompanied by the proper fee and by the documents and information
required by this chapter and other applicable titles of this code.

B. Approval Review: Action on that application for a stage of a subdivision approval shall
be completed in a timely manner after the date of submittal of all required information
and items to the community development department. The review cycle restrictions and
requirements of this section do not apply to the review of subdivision applications for
property within identified geological hazard areas.

1. Preliminary Plat: No later than 15 business days after the day on which an applicant
submits a complete preliminary subdivision plat application, the City shall complete the
initial review of the application, including subdivision improvement plans.

2. Final Plat: No later than 20 business days after the day on which an applicant submits
a complete final subdivision plat application, the City shall complete the initial review of
the application.

3. In reviewing the application submittal, the City may require additional information to
ensure compliance with City ordinances and approved standards and specifications for
construction of public improvements and modifications to plans that do not meet
current ordinances, applicable standards or specifications, or do not contain complete
information.
a. The City’s request for additional information or modifications to plans shall be specific
and include citations to ordinances, standards, or specifications that require the
modifications to plans, and shall be logged in an index of requested modifications or
additions.

4. Resubmittal: The applicant’s resubmittal shall include a written explanation in
response to the City’s review comments, identifying and explaining the applicant's
revisions and reasons for declining to make revisions, if any.

a. The applicant's written explanation shall be comprehensive and specific, including
citations to applicable standards and ordinances for the design and an index of
requested revisions or additions for each required correction.

b. If an applicant fails to address a review comment in the response, the review cycle is
not complete and the subsequent review cycle may not begin until all comments are
addressed.

5. Subject to the circumstances listed in 5a through 5b below, the City may not require
more than four review cycles for each application.

a. Unless a change or correction is necessitated by the applicant's adjustment to a plan
set or an update to a phasing plan that adjusts the infrastructure needed for the specific
development, a change or correction not addressed or referenced in the City’s review is
waived.

b. A modification or correction necessary to protect public health and safety or to enforce
state or federal law may not be waived.

6. If an applicant makes a material change to a plan set, the City has the discretion to
restart the review process at the first review of the final plat application, but only with
respect to the portion of the plan set that the material change substantively affects.

7. If the City fails to respond within 20 business days on the fourth and final review, the
property owner may request an appeal as provided in Section 17-1-120(D).



17-1-085: PUBLIC NOTIFICATION:

A. Required Notice: Any public hearing required herein shall be scheduled and held by
the zoning administrator, planning commission or city council, as designated. Required
notice of such hearing shall be given as follows not less than ten (10) calendar days before
the public hearing:
1. The city shall mail notice of a public hearing to consider a proposed subdivision plat
or an amendment to or a minor subdivision with deviation requests not less than ten
(10) calendar days before the public hearing addressed to the record owner of each
parcel within four three hundred feet (400 300') of the subject property. The notice shall
contain at a minimum the information included in a notice summary statement as
defined by Utah Code Annotated, 63G-30-101(3), as amended.

2. Not less than ten (10) calendar days before the public hearing, the applicant shall post
one city provided sign along each street on which the subject property has frontage. If
the subject property does not abut a street, then the sign should be posted on a nearby
street as determined by the zoning administrator. The sign shall be of sufficient size,
durability, print quality and location that it is reasonably calculated to give notice to those
passing by. If the plat amendment proposes to vacate some or all of a public street or
municipal utility easement, the city shall:

a. The applicant shall submit a signed affidavit of public posting. Mail a notice of the
public hearing to the record owner of each parcel that is accessed by the public street or
municipal utility easement;

b. The affidavit shall include a photograph verifying that the sign has been installed, at
least ten (10) days prior to the public hearing. Mail a notice of the public hearing to each
affected entity as defined in Section 9-3-040 of this Code; and

c. Failure to post the public notice sign and provide the required verification at least ten
(10) days prior to the public hearing will cause a delay in the processing of the application.
Post a notice of the public hearing as follows:

(1) if the affected area is a public street, the notice shall be posted on or adjacent to the
public street; or

(2) if the affected area is an easement, the notice shall be posted on or adjacent to the
easement, or in a public location that is reasonable likely to be seen by persons who are
likely to be impacted by the easement.

d. If the sign is destroyed or damaged, the applicant shall replace the sign within
seventy-two (72) hours of being notified.

3. Mailed to each affected entity as defined in section 9-3-040 of this Code that provides
a service to an owner of record of the portion of the plat that is being vacated or
amended.

4. Published on the city's website and on the Utah Public Notice Website.
3. The applicant shall pay to the city a fee in the amount of the actual costs incurred by
the city in mailing the notice and posting the property.

B. Courtesy Notice: Subject to the limitations set forth herein, courtesy notice of any
public hearing or meeting may be provided by the city. Any such notice provided
hereunder is intended as a courtesy only and the city shall not be obligated to provide
such notice to any person or entity. No error in such mailings or failure of any property
owner to receive courtesy notice shall affect the adequacy or sufficiency of the required
notice provided in accordance with subsection A of this section. As used herein, "courtesy
notice" may include any of the following:The applicant shall pay to the city a fee in the
amount of the actual costs incurred by the city in mailing and posting the notice.

1. Additional noticing beyond the minimum distance required by this code; and

2. Noticing when it is not otherwise required.

…

17-1-120: APPEALS:

A. Subject to subsection D, an appeal Appeal may be made to the Appeals and Variance
Hearing Officer from any decision, determination or requirement of the Zoning
Administrator or Planning Commission hereunder by filing with the community
development department an application and notice thereof in writing within ten (10)
calendar days after such decision, determination or requirement is made. Such notice
shall set forth in detail the action and grounds upon which the subdivider or other
adversely affected party deems themselves adversely affected.

…

D. An applicant may appeal the city’s failure to respond within twenty (20) business days
on the fourth or final review described in Section 17-1-080(B)(6). If the City fails to respond
within 20 business days on the fourth and final review, the City shall, upon request of the
property owner, and within 10 business days after the day on which the request is
received:

1. For a dispute arising from the subdivision improvement plans, assemble an appeal
panel, in accordance with Utah Code 10-9a-508(5)(d), to review and approve or deny the
final revised set of plans; or

2. For a dispute arising from the subdivision ordinance review, advise the applicant in
writing of the deficiency in the application and of the right to appeal the determination
to the Appeals and Variance Hearing Officer in accordance with this section.
…




17-2-010: CONCEPT PLAN:

A potential subdivider may provide to the community development department and the
Development Review Committee concept plans may be applied for as part of a pre-
application process prior to submitting a preliminary plat application, but is not required,
for all subdivisions. This pre-application process is not required, but provides the
potential subdivider with an opportunity to consult with and receive assistance from the
city staff and other agencies regarding the regulations and design requirements
applicable to the subdivision of property. The applicant or applicant's duly authorized
and certified agent shall submit a complete application to the city community
development department for subdivision concept plan review, together with the
appropriate application fee as set forth in the city consolidated fee schedule. If a rezoning
is needed to accomplish a proposed concept plan, a zoning map amendment application
pursuant to section 9-5-060 Draper City code shall be submitted and reviewed with or
prior to the concept plan application.

17-2-020: SUBMISSION:

The potential subdivider shall may submit a single electronic copy of the proposed
subdivision concept plans to the Draper City community development department
together with a request for a pre-application meeting with the Development Review
Committee. The proposed concept plan shall be professionally prepared and include the
following items:

A. The proposed name of the subdivision.

B. A vicinity plan showing significant natural and manmade features or existing
structures on the site and within two hundred feet (200') of any portion of it; the property
boundaries of the proposed subdivision; the names of adjacent property owners;
topographic contours at no greater interval than two feet (2'); and north arrow.

C. A proposed lot and street layout.

D. Availability and location of utilities and drainage facilities within the vicinity which are
adjacent to the property.
E. A description of those portions of the property which are included in the most recent
flood insurance rate maps prepared by FEMA.

F. The total acreage of the entire tract proposed for subdivision.

G. County plat map with aerial photo underlay, if available.

17-2-030: DISTRIBUTION OF PLAN:

The Draper City community development department, upon receipt of the complete
application for concept plans review, shall distribute copies of the plans to such
government departments the Development Review Committee and other agencies or
advisors as in the opinion of the department and the planning commission may
contribute to a decision in the best interest of the public.

17-2-040: REVIEW BY CITY STAFF:

A. The city staff shall review the submitted concept plans and check compliance, insofar
as possible, with the city's general plans, zoning ordinance, this subdivision ordinance,
and other appropriate regulations. Courtesy notice of the staff review of the proposed
subdivision concept plan shall be provided in accordance with section 17-1-085 of this
title. The city staff shall make findings regarding the submitted concept plan, specifying
any inadequacy in the information submitted, noncompliance with city regulations,
questionable or undesirable design and/or engineering. City staff may also request any
additional information which may assist them to evaluate the proposed subdivision.

B. The city staff may require additional information, data or studies to be provided for
the overall development before acceptance of the concept plan is provided. Any
recommendation given by the city staff may include requirements for the overall
development as part of its findings on the concept plan.

C. The zoning administrator shall evaluate the recommendations of city staff and
notified agencies, any public comment received, and the requirements of all city
ordinances and general plans, and shall submit written findings and recommendations
to the developer. B. A pre-application meeting before the Development Review
Committee shall be scheduled within 15 business days of submittal of the request by the
potential subdivider. Recommendations and comments made by city staff and invited
agencies regarding the concept plans by the zoning administrator shall not constitute an
approval or disapproval of the proposed subdivision, but rather shall operate in such a
manner as to give the potential subdivider general guidance as to the requirements and
constraints for subdivider's proposed subdivision within when preparing a preliminary,
amended, or minor subdivision plat application for submittal to the city.
17-2-050: REFERRAL TO THE PLANNING COMMISSION AND CITY COUNCIL: REPEALED

A. When determined by the zoning administrator to be in the best interest of the city, a
concept plan may be referred to the planning commission and city council for review and
approval. The zoning administrator shall take the following into account when
determining whether the application will require planning commission and/or city
council review:

1. The size of the proposed development;

2. Whether the subdivision lies within the sensitive lands overlay zone;

3. Compliance with city ordinances and master plans;

4. Requests for deviations from standards found within this title or titles 9, 11, or 18;

5. Compatibility with surrounding properties; and

6. The controversial nature of the proposal.

B. Staff shall notify the planning commission and city council with a record of findings
and recommendations.

17-2-060: EXPIRATION OF CONCEPT PLAN: REPEALED

Once concept plan recommendations have been received from the city as provided
herein, the subdivider may apply for preliminary plat approval consistent with the
concept plan. If preliminary plat approval for any portion of a reviewed concept plan has
not been obtained within twelve (12) months of the date on which concept plan was
accepted by the zoning administrator or city council, a resubmittal of the concept plan
may be required by the zoning administrator or city council prior to the filing of an
application for preliminary plat approval.

…

17-3-020: APPLICATION AND FEES:

A subdivider shall file an application for preliminary plat approval with the community
development department on a form prescribed by the city, together with an electronic
copy of the preliminary plat, and the application fee as set forth in the consolidated fee
schedule. No application shall be scheduled for hearing a public meeting before the
planning commission until all required information has been received and reviewed by
the city staff or after the fourth review, whichever comes first. A final subdivision plat
application may be submitted and processed concurrently with the application for the
preliminary subdivision plat.

17-3-030: PRELIMINARY PLAT SUBMITTAL:

…

E. Soils Geotechnical Report and Geologic Hazard Study: Three Two (3 2) printed copies
and one (1) electronic copy of a soils geotechnical report and geologic hazard study for
the site.

…

17-3-035: DISTRIBUTION:

The Community Development Department, upon receipt of the complete application for
preliminary plat approval, shall distribute copies of the submittal to such departments
the Development Review Committee and other agencies or advisors as in the opinion of
the department and the Planning Commission may contribute to a decision in the best
interest of the public.

17-3-040: REVIEW:

A. Planning Commission: The Planning Commission shall review the preliminary plat
submittal and determine compliance with the standards and criteria set forth in this
chapter and all other ordinances of Draper City, including, but not limited to, the land use
ordinance, general plan, master street plan, and City standard specifications and design
criteria. Review of the preliminary plat submittal shall follow the process outlined in
section 17-1-080 of this title. After the fourth or final review, the preliminary subdivision
plat application shall be scheduled for a public meeting. Notice of the public meeting at
which the Planning Commission reviews the proposed preliminary plat shall be provided
in accordance with section 17-1-085 of this title. The Planning Commission shall make
findings specifying any inadequacy in the application, noncompliance with City
regulations, questionable or undesirable design or engineering, and the need for any
additional information. The Planning Commission may review all relevant information
pertaining to the proposed development, including fire protection, sufficient supply of
culinary and secondary water to the proposed subdivision, sewer service, traffic
considerations, and the potential for flooding. The Planning Commission shall hold a
public meeting, and shall may approve, approve with conditions, or if the project
preliminary subdivision plat application does not meet City ordinances or sanitary sewer
or culinary water requirements, deny the preliminary or final subdivision plat application.
…

17-3-060: EXPIRATION OF PRELIMINARY PLAT APPROVAL:

A. After preliminary plat approval has been granted, the The subdivider may apply for
final plat approval concurrently with the application for the preliminary subdivision plat,
or after the preliminary subdivision plat application has been approved. For phased
developments, the subdivider may apply for final plat approval for each phase
separately. Preliminary plat approval for the subsequent phases of the subdivision shall
expire two (2) years from the date of the previous phases' final plat recordation.

B. Except as provided in subection C below, if If the subdivider has not applied for
approval of the final subdivision plat approval, or for phased developments, the final
subdivision plat approval for the first phase, within one (1) year of the date of preliminary
subdivision plat approval, the preliminary subdivision plat approval shall be void. For
approved phased developments, the preliminary plat approval shall expire two (2) years
from the date of the previous phases’ final plat recordation. The Should the approval of
the preliminary subdivision plat expire, the subdivider can re-apply for submit a new
preliminary subdivision plat application for approval again in accordance with this
chapter. This time period may be extended up to twelve (12) months for good cause
shown if subdivider petitions the Planning Commission for an extension prior to the
expiration date; however, only one (1) 12-month extension may be granted.

C. The preliminary subdivision plat approval and deadline for submitting the final
subdivision plat application may be extended up to twelve (12) months for good cause
shown if the subdivider petitions the Planning Commission for an extension prior to the
expiration date. However, only one (1) twelve-month extension may be granted.



17-4-010: FINAL PLAT; PURPOSE:

The purpose of the final plat is to require formal approval by the Planning Commission
Zoning Administrator before a subdivision plat is recorded in the Office of the County
Recorder.

17-4-020: FILING DEADLINE, APPLICATION AND FEES:

A. Applications for final subdivision plat approval shall adhere to be made within one (1)
year after approval of the preliminary plat by the Planning Commission. The Planning
Commission may grant an extension to apply for final plat approval for up to twelve (12)
months for good cause shown. The subdivider must petition the Planning Commission
for an extension prior to the expiration date. The Planning Commission may only grant
one (1) 12-month extension per the submittal provisions found in section 17-3-060 of this
title.

…

17-4-030: FINAL PLAT; PREPARATION AND REQUIRED INFORMATION:

A. The final subdivision plat shall consist of a be printed on mylar sheet(s), or other
comparable material approved by the City, with the outside or trim line dimensions not
smaller than twenty two inches by thirty four inches (22" x 34"). The printed mylar shall
not be submitted at least twenty (20) days prior to placement on the Planning
Commission agenda as an action item to the City until after the Zoning Administrator has
first approved the final subdivision plat. Until that date, submittal of paper copies is
sufficient an electronic copy of the final subdivision plat shall be submitted for review.
The border line of the plat shall be drawn in heavy lines leaving a margin of at least one
and one-half inches (1-1/2") on the left side and at least one- half inch (1/2") margin on
the other sides. The plat shall be drawn with north being either up or to the left when
reading the sheet, whichever accommodates the exhibit best. All lines, dimensions, and
markings shall be on mylar or comparable material approved by the City, with
waterproof black ink. The plat shall be drawn to a scale large enough to clearly show all
details but in no case shall the exhibit be depicted at scales greater than eighty feet (80')
to the inch. Workmanship on the finished drawing shall be neat and legible.

…

N. The final plat shall contain the name, stamp and signature of a registered surveyor,
together with the date of the survey, the scale of the map and number of sheets. The
following certificates, acknowledgments and descriptions shall appear on the title sheet
of the final plat, and such certificates may be combined where appropriate:

1. A registered land surveyor's "certificate of survey";

2. An owner's dedication certificate in the following form or as otherwise specified by
the City Engineer:



OWNERS DEDICATION

Know all men by these presents that I/we, the undersigned owner(s) of the hereon
described tract of land, hereby set apart and subdivide the same into lots and streets as
shown on this plat and name said plat Subdivision Name, and do hereby dedicate, grant
and convey to Draper City, Utah: (1) all those parts or portions of said tract of land
designated as streets, the same to be used as public thoroughfares forever; (2) those
certain public utility and drainage easements as shown hereon, the same to be used for
the installation, maintenance, and operation of public utility service lines and drainage;
and (3) those parcels designated as public open space, parks, trail or easements, or of
similar designation. In witness whereof, we have hereunto set our hands this _____ day
of ________ , 20 ___ .



    __________________________

    (Add appropriate acknowledgments)

3. A notary public's acknowledgment for each signature on the plat;

4. A correct metes and bounds description of all property included within the
subdivision;

5. The signatures of the water provider, sewer provider, natural gas provider, electric
power provider, local telephone service provider, Salt Lake County Health Department,
Planning Commission Zoning Administrator, and City Engineer, and blocks for signatures
of the City Attorney, Draper City Council bearing a signature line for the Mayor and an
attestation by the City Recorder, and a signature block for the County Recorder in the
lower right corner of the final plat; and

6. Such other affidavits, certificates, acknowledgments, endorsements and notarial
seals as are required by law, this title, or by the City Attorney.

…

17-4-035: DISTRIBUTION

The community development department, upon receipt of the complete application for
final plat approval, shall distribute copies of the submittal to the Development Review
Committee and other agencies or advisors as in the opinion of the department and the
Zoning Administrator may contribute to a decision in the best interest of the public.

17-4-040: REVIEW BY CITY ENGINEER:

A. Upon receipt of the final plat, tThe Development Review Committee, including the City
Engineer, shall review the final plat and construction drawings and determine whether
the final plat conforms to the preliminary plat and is in compliance with the engineering
and surveying standards and criteria set forth in this chapter and all other applicable
standards and ordinances of the City and the State of Utah. If the final plat complies, the
City Engineer Development Review Committee shall forward the plat to the Zoning
Administrator, through the Community Development Department. If the final plat does
not comply, the City Engineer Development Review Committee shall return the plat to
the subdivider, through the Community Development Department, with comment.
Review of the final plat submittal shall follow the process outlined in section 17-1-080 of
this title.

B. After the fourth or final review, the Zoning Administrator shall either approve the final
plat, or deny the final plat if it is does not conform with this title or other applicable
ordinances. If the Zoning Administrator denies the final plat, the Zoning Administrator
shall specify the reasons for the denial.

C. No final plat shall have any force or effect unless the same has been approved by the
Zoning Administrator and signed by the Mayor and City Recorder.

17-4-050: REVIEW BY ZONING ADMINISTRATOR: REPEALED

A. Upon receipt of the final plat, the Zoning Administrator shall review the plat to
determine whether the plat conforms to the preliminary plat, with all changes requested
and with all requirements imposed as conditions of acceptance. The Zoning
Administrator shall check the final plat for completeness and compliance with the
requirements of this title. If the submitted final plat is incomplete, not in compliance with
all requirements, or does not incorporate the required changes, the Zoning
Administrator shall notify the subdivider and specify the respects in which the plat is
deficient. If the final plat conforms with all requirements and the ordinances of the City,
the Zoning Administrator shall recommend approval and forward the plat to the
Planning Commission.

B. If, upon review of a final plat application processed by the Zoning Administrator, the
Planning Commission determines that the Zoning Administrator has not sufficiently
addressed all issues relative to the subdivision, the Planning Commission may refer the
application back to the Zoning Administrator for further review and recommendation.

17-4-060: REVIEW BY PLANNING COMMISSION: REPEALED

B. Within a reasonable time following the recommended approval of the final plat by the
Zoning Administrator, the final plat shall be submitted to the Planning Commission for
its review and consideration. A courtesy notice may be provided for the meeting in
accordance with section 17-1-085 of this title, but is not required. The Planning
Commission shall not be bound by the recommendations of the Zoning Administrator
and may set its own conditions and requirements consistent with this title. If the Planning
Commission determines that the final plat is in conformity with the requirements of this
title, other applicable ordinances, and any reasonable conditions as recommended by
the City's staff and Zoning Administrator or on the Planning Commission's own initiative,
and that the Planning Commission is satisfied with the final plat, it may approve the final
plat. If the Planning Commission determines that the final plat is not in conformity with
this title or other applicable ordinances or any reasonable conditions imposed, it may
disapprove the final plat specifying the reasons for such disapproval. No final plat shall
have any force or effect unless the same has been approved by the Planning Commission
and signed by the Mayor and City Recorder.

17-4-070: IMPROVEMENT COMPLETION:

Unless an application is made and an agreement reached under section 17-4-075, a
subdivider must install all public landscaping and infrastructure improvements required
under this title following Planning Commission Zoning Administrator approval and prior
to recording a plat.

…

17-4-080: REVIEW BY CITY ATTORNEY: REPEALED

The City Attorney shall review the submitted final plat, the signed improvement
guarantee agreement, the current title report and the security for ensuring completion
of the improvements to verify compliance with the City's dedication and security
requirements. The City Attorney may also review public easements, protective covenants
and other documents where applicable. Upon approval of the final plat by the Planning
Commission, the City Attorney shall sign the plat in the appropriate signature block and
forward the plat to the City Recorder and Mayor for signing.

17-4-090: PAYMENT OF FEES:

All required application fees shall be paid by the subdivider prior to submitting the final
plat to the Planning Commission Zoning Administrator. All inspection fees shall be paid
prior to being issued a land disturbance permit and proceeding with construction of
landscape and infrastructure improvements.

17-4-100: PAYMENT OF PROPERTY TAX:

The subdivider shall pay in full of all prior year Property Taxes, any greenbelt or rollback
taxes, and its prorated share of the present year's taxes for all properties located within
the boundaries of the subdivision prior to recording of the plat. Following approval of the
final plat by the Planning Commission Zoning Administrator and upon verification of
payment for all prior year Property Taxes, the City shall obtain from the County
Treasurer's Office an estimated pro rata Property Tax amount for portion of the
subdivision to be dedicated or otherwise given to the City for right-of-way or other public
use. Prior to the mylar being submitted to the County Recorder for recordation, the
subdivider shall post a cash escrow with the Draper City Finance Department in an
amount not less than one hundred fifty percent (150%) of the County Treasurer's
estimate. Following the recordation of the plat or at the time of receipt of the tax notice
from the County Treasurer, the City shall pay the taxes due for those areas of the
subdivision identified as a part of the estimate from the cash escrow and any remaining
funds of the cash escrow shall be returned to the subdivider.

17-4-110: RECORDING OF FINAL PLAT:

After Planning Commission Zoning Administrator approval, and upon receipt of all
required signatures on the final mylar copy of the plat, the final plat shall be presented
by the City Recorder to the county recorder of the county in which the property is located
for recordation, provided improvements have been completed and accepted or an
improvement guarantee agreement has been executed.

17-4-120: EXPIRATION OF FINAL PLAT APPROVAL:

If the final plat is not recorded within one (1) year from the date of Planning Commission
Zoning Administrator approval or construction of the required landscaping and
infrastructure has not commenced, such approval shall be null and void. This time period
may be extended by the Planning Commission Zoning Administrator for up to one
additional six (6) month period for good cause shown. The subdivider must petition in
writing for an extension prior to the expiration of the original one (1) year.

…

17-7-010: DEVELOPMENT FEES LEVIED:

A. Payment Required: No final plat shall be approved by the Zoning Administrator or
Planning Commission or recorded and no building or other permits required by the
ordinances of Draper City shall be issued, unless the subdivider shall first pay to the City
all applicable fees required under the City consolidated fee schedule.

…

17-8-020: STAFF AUTHORITY:
The Zoning Administrator, or designee, shall have the ability authority to approve,
approve with conditions, or deny a minor subdivision application in accordance with the
regulations of this chapter. Alternatively, when the applicant requests deviations from
standards found within this title or titles 9, 11, or 18 the Zoning Administrator may direct
that the application follow the standard procedure for Planning Commission shall have
the authority to approve or deny a minor subdivision approval at a public hearing. The
applicant may appeal the decision of the Zoning Administrator to the Appeals and
Variance Hearing Officer.

17-8-030: SUBMISSION:

The subdivider shall submit a complete application for a minor subdivision to the
Community Development Department, along with a completed application and
application fee. The proposed minor subdivision plan shall include the information
required for a preliminary plat application as outlined in section 17-3-030 and the final
plat application as outlined in section 17-4-030 of this title. The fee for minor subdivisions
shall be based on the City's adopted consolidated fee schedule.

17-8-040: NOTIFICATION: DISTRIBUTION

A. Distribution For Review: The Community Development Department, upon receipt of
a complete application for minor subdivision, shall distribute copies of the plan to such
City departments the Development Review Committee and other agencies or advisors
as may contribute to a decision in the best interest of the public.

B. Notice To Adjacent Property Owners: Public notice shall follow the process outlined in
section 17-1-085 of this title. The applicant shall pay to the city a fee in the amount of the
actual costs incurred by the city in mailing the notice and posting the property.

17-8-050: REVIEW BY THE COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT DEPARTMENT:

A. Findings; Considerations Development Review Committee: Once comment has been
received from the Development Review Committee and all notified government
departments, agencies, and property owners, the Community Development Department
shall review the submitted minor subdivision application and check compliance with the
City's general plan, zoning ordinance, subdivision ordinance, and other appropriate
regulations. Based on this review, the Zoning Administrator shall make findings
regarding the submitted minor subdivision plan, specifying the approval, approval with
conditions, or denial of the subdivision, or specifying any inadequacy in the information
submitted, noncompliance with City regulations, questionable or undesirable design
and/or engineering. The Zoning Administrator may also make a determination that the
minor subdivision is required to proceed through the normal subdivision process. The
Zoning Administrator shall forward the review comments in writing to the applicant
within a reasonable period following the review.

The Zoning Administrator shall take the following into account when determining
whether the application will require Planning Commission review:

1. The size of the proposed development;

2. Whether the subdivision lies within the Sensitive Lands Overlay Zone;

3. Compliance with City ordinances and master plans;

4. Requests for deviations from standards found within this title or titles 9, 11, or 18;

5. Compatibility with surrounding properties; and

6. The controversial nature of the proposal.

1. If the review identifies any inadequacy in the information submitted, noncompliance
with City regulations, questionable or undesirable design or engineering, the community
development department shall forward the review comments in writing to the applicant.
Review of the minor subdivision plan shall follow the process outlined in section 17-1-
080 of this title.

2. If deviations are requested, notice of the public hearing at which the Planning
Commission reviews the proposed minor subdivision shall be provided in accordance
with section 17-1-085 of this title.

B. Additional Information: The Zoning Administrator may require additional
information, data or studies to be provided by the applicant for the subdivision before
any determination is made as to the acceptability of the proposed subdivision. Findings;
Considerations: After the fourth or final review, the Zoning Administrator or Planning
Commission, as applicable, shall make findings regarding the submitted minor
subdivision plan, specifying the approval or denial of the subdivision. The Zoning
Administrator or Planning Commission shall forward the findings to the applicant.

C. Standard Procedures May Be Required: The Zoning Administrator may, after review
of the plan and comment from other departments and agencies, direct the applicant to
follow the standard procedures required for subdivision, as described in this title.

D. C. Appeal: The applicant may appeal any decision of the Zoning Administrator or
Planning Commission to the Appeals and Variance Hearing Officer as provided in Section
17-1-120 within fourteen (14) days of the notice of decision. The appeal must be
submitted in writing to the Community Development Department. The Appeals and
Variance Hearing Officer shall then, during a public meeting, review the record of the
decision and determine if the Zoning Administrator was in error regarding the decision.
If the Zoning Administrator's decision is found to be in error, the application shall be
remanded, with comment regarding the Appeals and Variance Hearing Officer's action,
to the Zoning Administrator for additional review.

…

17-9-010: PETITION FOR AMENDMENT:

A. Property Owner: Any fee owner of property lying within a recorded subdivision plat
may petition the City requesting to vacate, alter or amend some or all of the subdivision
plat. The petition shall include:

1. The name and address of all owner's owners of record of the land contained in the
entire plat or on that portion of the plat described in the petition;

2. The signature of each of the owners identified in subsection A1 of this section who
consent to the petition; and

3. The fee as set forth in the Draper City consolidated fee schedule.

…

17-9-020: AMENDMENT PROCEDURE:

…

B. Public Hearing: Except as otherwise provided in subsection C of this section, the
Planning Commission shall hold a public hearing on the proposed subdivision plat
amendment within forty five (45) days of receipt of the petition. Notice of the public
hearing shall be given as provided in section 17-9-030 17-1-085 of this Code.

C. Waiver Of Public Hearing: Where the subdivision plat amendment process is initiated
by petition, the Planning Commission, in its discretion, may waive the requirement of a
public hearing if:

1. The proposed subdivision plat change does not include the vacation, alteration or
amendment of some or all of a of a public street or municipal utility easement;
2. No owner within the plat notifies the City of their objection, in writing, within ten (10)
days of the mailed notice provided under section 17-9-030 17-1-085 of this chapter code;
and

3. All owners within the plat have signed the revised plat consenting to the proposed
amendment.

…

E. Public Hearing Not Required: Not withstanding sections B and C in this section, the
public hearing requirements do not apply and the Planning Commission may consider
an owner’s petition for a subdivision plat amendment at a public meeting, subject to
notice being given to adjoining property owners per section 17-9-030 17-1-085 of this
code, if the petition seeks to:

1. Join two or more of the petitioner fee owner's contiguous lots as outlined in 17-9-060
of this chapter;

2. Subdivide one or more of the petitioning fee owner's lots, if the subdivision will not
result in a violation of a land use ordinance or a development condition;

3. Adjust the lot lines of adjoining lots or between a lot and an adjoining parcel if the fee
owners of each of the adjoining properties join in the petition, regardless of whether the
properties are located in the same subdivision, as outlined in 17-9-060 of this chapter;

4. On a lot owned by the petitioning fee owner, adjust an internal lot restriction imposed
by ordinance; or

5. Alter the plat in a manner that does not change the existing boundaries or other
attributes of lots within the subdivision that are not:

a. Owned by the petitioner; or

b. Designated as a common area.

…

17-9-030: NOTICE:

A. Requirements: Notice of any proposed subdivision plat amendment shall be given as
follows: specified in Section 17-1-085 of this code.

1. If the proposed change does not involve the vacation, alteration or amendment of a
public street, notice of the date, place, and time of the hearing where they Planning
Commission will consider the proposed amendment shall be given at least ten (10) days
before the public hearing as follows:

a. Notice shall be mailed at least ten (10) days before the public hearing to each owner
of property located within four hundred feet (400’) of the property that is the subject of
the proposed plat change, addressed to the owner's mailing address appearing on the
rolls of the County Assessor.

b. Posted on the property one city provided sign along each street on which the subject
property has frontage. If the subject property does not abut a street, then the sign shall
be posted on a nearby street as determined by the zoning administrator. The sign shall
be of sufficient size, durability, print quality and location that it is reasonably calculated
to give notice to those passing by. It shall be the responsibility of the applicant to remove
and dispose of the sign within (5) calendar days of the hearing. Failure to do so shall
constitute a violation of this section.

c. The applicant shall submit a signed affidavit of public posting.

d. The affidavit shall include a photograph verifying that the sign has been installed, at
least ten (10) days prior to the public hearing.

e. Failure to post the public notice sign and provide the required verification at least ten
(10) days prior to the public hearing will cause a delay in the processing of the application.

f. If the sign is destroyed or damaged, the applicant shall replace the sign within seventy-
two (72) hours of being notified.

g. Mailed to each "affected entity" as defined in section 9-3-040 of this Code which
provides service to an owner or record of the portion of the plat that is being amended.

2. If the proposed change involves the vacation, alteration or amendment of a public
street, notice of the date, place and time of the hearing where the City Council will
consider the proposed amendment shall be given at least ten (10) calendar days before
the public hearing as follows:

a. Mailed to the record owner of each parcel that is accessed by the public street, or city
utility easement;

b. Mailed to each "affected entity" as defined in section 9-3-040 of this Code;

c. Posted on or near the street, or city utility easement in a manner that is calculated to
alert the public;
d. Published on the city's website until the public hearing concludes; and

e. Published on the Utah public notice website.

B. Payment Of Costs: The petitioner for any proposed plat amendment shall pay the
costs for any notices required by this chapter.

17-9-040: GROUNDS FOR VACATING OR CHANGING A PLAT:

The Planning Commission may approve the vacation or amendment of a plat by signing
an amended plat showing the vacation or amendment if the Land Use Authority Planning
Commission finds that there is good cause for the vacation or amendment;, and no
public street, right- of-way, or municipal utility easement has been vacated or amended.

17-9-050: AMENDED PLAT REQUIREMENTS:

Prior to the land use authority's Planning Commission’s approval of a petition or proposal
to amend a subdivision plat, the petitioner or sponsor shall deliver to the City an
amended subdivision plat map and supporting information in compliance with the
requirements of section 17-4-030 of this title. Any subdivision plat amendment that
creates any property to be dedicated or otherwise given to the City for right-of-way or
other public use shall also comply with the terms of section 17-4-100 of this title
regarding the payment of Property Tax.

17-9-060: PROPERTY BOUNDARY ADJUSTMENTS:

A. Lot Line Adjustments: To make a lot line adjustment between property owners, or to
join a petitioner fee owner's contiguous lot(s) with a petitioner fee owner’s contiguous
parcel, a property owner shall:

1. Amend the subdivision plat according to the provisions of this chapter The property
owner or owners shall:

a. Submit an application for and obtain approval of the lot line adjustment from the
Zoning Administrator;

b. Execute a boundary line adjustment through a quitclaim deed or boundary line
agreement; and

c. Record the notice of approval from the Zoning Administrator, which recites the legal
descriptions of both the original properties and the properties resulting from the
exchange of title, together with a quitclaim deed or boundary line agreement in the office
of the county recorder.
2. Execute a boundary line adjustment through a quitclaim deed or boundary line
agreement; and

3. Record the amended plat and quitclaim deed or boundary line agreement in the
office of the county recorder.

42. The joining of a lot or lots to a parcel does not constitute a subdivision as to the
parcel or subject the parcel to other sections of Title 17.

3. The Zoning Administrator shall approve the lot line adjustment if the exchange of title
will not result in a violation of any land use ordinance.

4. An application for a lot line adjustment between property owners shall be filed jointly.

B. Joining Lots: A fee owner may join two (2) or more of the petitioner fee owner's
contiguous lots by following the subdivision plat amendment process in Title 17.

C. Parcel Boundary Adjustments: To make a parcel boundary adjustment, a property
owner shall execute a boundary adjustment through a quitclaim deed or boundary line
agreement and record the quitclaim deed or boundary line agreement with the county
recorder.

1. A Parcel boundary adjustment is not subject to the city’s review unless any of the
subject parcels contain a dwelling unit.

2. Parcel boundary adjustments that require review by the city shall:

a. Be filed jointly by the owners of both subject properties.

b. Include a boundary line agreement that complies with the provisions of Utah Code
Annotated 10-9a-524(2), as amended, and includes a statement citing the file number of
the record of survey map in accordance with Utah Code Annotated 17-23-17, as
amended.

…
