                       CITY COUNCIL AGENDA

                       Tuesday, November 19, 2024, 5:30 PM
                       1020 E. Pioneer Road Draper, Utah
                       Council Chambers

5:30 PM STUDY MEETING

       Discussion: The status of the Town Center Station Area Plan and the next
       steps for moving forward.
       Jennifer Jastremsky and Todd Taylor

       Council/Manager Reports

6:00 PM BUSINESS MEETING

1.     Call to Order

2.     Pledge of Allegiance

3.     Public Comments
       To be considerate of everyone attending the meeting, public comments will be
       restricted to items that are not listed on this or a future agenda and limited to three
       minutes per person. Comments which cannot be made within these limits should be
       submitted in writing to the City Recorder prior to noon the day before the meeting.
       Comments pertaining to an item on the agenda should not be given at this time but
       should be held until that item is called.

4.     Consent Items

       4.a Approval of November 12, 2024, City Council Meeting Minutes.

       4.b Approval of Resolution #24-61
           A Resolution appointing Jenny Haase and Falguni Dharodiya to the Draper
           City Community Engagement Committee. Staff: Kellie Challburg.

5.     Items for Council Consideration

       5.a Interviews: Applicants for City Council Vacancy
           Applicants will be heard in randomized order as provided by the 2024-2025
           Master Ballot Position List. Each applicant will be given 2 minutes to speak.

       5.b Action Item: Resolution #24-60
           A Resolution appointing an individual to fill the vacancy in the office of
           Draper City Councilmember created by the resignation of Cal Roberts. Staff
           report Mike Barker.
6.       Oath of Office administered for new Council appointment.

7.       Adjournment

I, the City Recorder of Draper City, certify that copies of this agenda for the Draper City
Council meeting to be held November 19, 2024, were posted at Draper City Hall, Draper
City      website www.draperutah.gov, and the Utah Public Notice website at
www.utah.gov/pmn.

Date Posted:
                                             Laura Oscarson, MMC, City Recorder
                                             Draper City, State of Utah




In compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act, any individuals needing special
accommodations or services during this meeting shall notify Laura Oscarson, City
Recorder at (801) 576-6502 or laura.oscarson@draperutah.gov, at least 24 hours prior to
the meeting.
