MEMO
To: City Council
From: Travis DeJong
Date: 2024-03-19
Re: Public Hearing: Providing Local Consent for a Full Service Restaurant License for
Douang Investments LLC dba Tuk Tuk's.


Comments:

Douang Investments LLC dba Tuk Tuk's located at 541 E 12300 S Suite A is seeking Local
Consent for a Limited-Service Restaurant license. They have provided the following:

- Liquor liability insurance.
- Bond payable to the Department of Alcoholic Beverage Services.
- Floor map showing where alcohol is to be served, stored, and consumed.
- Sales tax license.
- A background check conducted by the Bureau of Criminal Identification.

Douang Investments LLC dba Tuk Tuk's has also applied for and is in the process of
obtaining a Draper City business license for their restaurant operations.

The findings for Local Consent approval are as follows:

DCMC 6-4-040 requires that a limited-service restaurant be at least three hundred feet
(300') away from any community location (schools, churches, public libraries, public
playgrounds, and public parks) measured by the shortest pedestrian route taken from
the nearest patron entrance of the restaurant to the property boundary of the
community location.

Douang Investments LLC dba Tuk Tuk's has met this requirement.

DCMC 6-4-040 requires that a limited-service restaurant be at least two hundred feet
(200') away from any community location (schools, churches, public libraries, public
playgrounds, and public parks) measured in a straight line from the nearest patron
entrance of the restaurant to the property boundary of the community location.

Douang Investments LLC dba Tuk Tuk's has met this requirement.

DCMC 6-4-050 places no restrictions on the number of full-service restaurant licenses
that can be granted by the City.
ATTACHMENTS:

200' Buffer.pdf
ATTACHMENTS:

300' Shortest Pedestrian Route.pdf
ATTACHMENTS:

Floor Plan (4).pdf
ATTACHMENTS:

Liquor Liability.pdf
ATTACHMENTS:

Bond.pdf
ATTACHMENTS:

Sales Tax License.PDF
ATTACHMENTS:

Douang Investments Local Consent PP.pptx
