                                 Development Review Committee
                                         1020 East Pioneer Road
                                           Draper, UT 84020
                                            January 25, 2024

To:              Draper City Planning Commission
                 Business Date: February 8, 2024

From:            Development Review Committee

Prepared By: Tevai Haunga, Planner I
             Planning Division
             Community Development Department
             801-576-6522, tevai.haunga@draperutah.gov

Re:     Automatic Gate Installers Inc.– Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit
        Request
        Application No.: USE-0068-2023
        Applicant:        Todd and Janet Olsen, representing the Olsen Family Trust
                          8/30/2018
        Project Location: 706 E Osborne Estate Circle
        Current Zoning: RA2 (Single Family 20,000 sq. ft. minimum lot size)
        Acreage:          0.46 Acres (Approximately 20,038 square feet)
        Request:          Request for approval of a Home Occupation in the RA2 zone for a
                          home office with additional non-resident employees and work
                          vehicles.

BACKGROUND AND SUMMARY
This application is a request for approval of a Home Occupation for approximately 0.46
acres located at approximately 706 E. Osborne Estate Circle (Exhibit B & C). The property is
zoned RA2. The applicants are requesting that a Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit
be approved for a home office with (2) non-family, non-resident employees coming to the
home, and for the storage and use of two (2) work vehicles as part of the business.

The property is part of the Osborne Estates Subdivision and the home was built in 2000.
The business has been licensed and in operation since 2001 as a permitted use, home
office, without non-resident employees or additional work vehicles (Exhibit I). In 2023, in
response to complaints received regarding parking, it was discovered that the business was
operating outside of the home occupation permitted use standards and that a conditional
use permit would be required for the business to continue operating in its current manner.



Automatic Gate Installers, Inc.                                   App. # USE-0068-2023
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit             1
This application was first presented to the Planning Commission on January 11, 2024 and
was continued to the February 8, 2024 meeting. The applicant was given this time to
prepare and submit updates to the application including proposed mitigating conditions to
address concerns and elements that were not included in the original application.
Particularly this included addressing additional equipment parked at the home and a
parking plan for accommodating personal and employee vehicles on the property. Staff has
included in this report an updated analysis from the report presented previously to the
Planning Commission, based on statements made by the applicant in the prior meeting
and the additional information submitted by the business owners (Exhibit J).



ANALYSIS
General Plan and Zoning.

 Table 1                   General Plan and Zoning Designations                   Exhibit
 Existing Land Use         Residential Low-Medium Density                         Exhibit D
 Current Zoning            RA2                                                    Exhibit E
 Proposed Use
 Adjacent Zoning
    East                   RA2
    West                   RA2
    North                  RA2
    South                  RA2




Automatic Gate Installers, Inc.                                   App. # USE-0068-2023
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit          2
The Residential Low-Medium Density land use designation is characterized as follows:




According DCMC Section 9-8-020 the purpose of the RA2 zone is to “foster low density
development with little impact on its surroundings and municipal services; to generally preserve
the character of the city's semirural areas; and to promote and preserve conditions favorable to
large lot family life, including the keeping of limited numbers of animals and fowl. The
predominant use in these zones is intended to be detached single-family dwellings, protected
from encroachment by commercial and industrial uses.

Home Occupation.
The applicants run an automatic gate installation and service business. The applicants have
maintained a business license since 2001 as a Home Occupation, home office only (Exhibit
I). No non-resident employees were permitted under the original license. Current
ordinance limits non-family or non-resident employees to one (1). The applicants are
requesting a Conditional Use Permit for a home office with two (2) non-family, non-resident




Automatic Gate Installers, Inc.                                     App. # USE-0068-2023
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit          3
employees coming to the home, and for two (2) work vehicle’s to be parked on-site. Hours
of operation are Monday – Friday 8:30 am – 4:30 pm. The applicants have indicated that the
employees will park their personal vehicles in the garage and driveway on the property.

Mrs. Olsen verbally informed planning staff that they intend to modify the application to
only have a business office at the home and will move all other work vehicles and
equipment to a commercial site. She indicated that they would still like to be able to
expand to have an additional non-resident employee and continue with the conditional use
application. No amended application or other evidence in support of these statements has
been submitted to staff for review. Mr. Olsen did submit to staff a revised site plan
included as exhibit (J) agreeing to provide additional paved parking on the property to the
west of the current driveway. Staff has altered the analysis and conditions presented in this
staff report based on these proposed changes.

The DCMC Section 9-34-040 outlines development standards applicable to all home
occupations. Those criteria, along with information specific to the subject request, are as
follows:

        A. Ownership: The home occupation shall be owned and operated by a person who
           resides in the dwelling where the home occupation is located. Such person shall be
           the primary provider of the labor, work, or service provided in the home occupation.

             -The home occupation is owned by residents of the home. The owners indicate
             they are the primary providers of labor. One (1) other non-resident employee
             also provides labor for operation of the business. The applicant originally stated
             that they had two (2) non-resident employees in the application and the
             applicants changed their statement during the January 11, 2024 Planning
             Commission meeting to state that they only had one (1) non-resident employee.
             The applicants are requesting that the business be permitted two (2) non-
             resident employees so that they can continue to grow their business.

        B. Business License: A business license for the home occupation shall be obtained from
           and continually maintained with the city pursuant to title 6, chapter 11of this code.

             -A current business license will be required to be maintained with the City of
             Draper through the life of business operations from the residential dwelling.

        C. Employees: Members of the family of the owner who reside in the dwelling may be
           employed in the home occupation. Nonfamily or nonresident employees shall be
           limited to one person.




Automatic Gate Installers, Inc.                                      App. # USE-0068-2023
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit          4
             -The applicants currently have one (1) employee who does not reside in the
             home. The applicants are requesting approval as part of the conditional use
             permit to allow for two (2) non-resident employees for the business.

        D. Inspection: All facilities shall comply with fire, building, plumbing, electrical and all
           other city, county, state and federal codes. Inspections during reasonable hours by
           city officials may occur as necessary to assure compliance with regulations.

             -The applicants have stated that they will comply with fire, building, plumbing,
             electrical, and all other city, county, state and federal codes. Inspections will be
             required as part of the business licensing process.

        E. Inventory: No stock in trade, inventory, or other merchandise to exceed two hundred
           fifty (250) square feet shall be kept on the premises. No outside storage is allowed.

             -The applicants have agreed not to store any inventory and merchandise in
             excess of the 250 sq. ft. limit. Outside storage will not be allowed. Staff has
             included this in the suggested mitigating conditions for approval.

        F. Modification Of Structures Or Yards: There shall be no visible evidence from the
           exterior of a dwelling that it is being used for any other purpose than that of a
           dwelling. No activities shall be carried on outside the dwelling in the yard for the
           benefit of or incidental to the home occupation. No front yard area shall be altered to
           provide parking required for a home occupation.

             -The applicants submitted a revised site plan indicating that they will install
             additional paved parking. The plan was non-specific as to the size and exact
             location, but was generally located west of the current driveway (Exhibit J). The
             applicants understand that no business activities are to be carried on outside of
             the dwelling. Staff notes the lack of sufficient on-site parking for all potential
             personal and work-related vehicles and agrees with the proposed mitigation to
             increase the off-street parking by adding at least one (1) parking stall adjacent to
             the existing driveway.

        G. Nuisance: Tools, items, equipment, or activities conducted within the dwelling which is
           offensive or noxious by reason of the emission of odor, smoke, gas, vibration,
           magnetic interference, or noise shall be prohibited.

             -The applicants have indicated that they will comply with this standard.

        H. Secondary Use: The home occupation shall be clearly incidental and secondary to the
           primary use of the dwelling for residential purposes. The home occupation shall not
           disrupt the normal residential character of the neighborhood in which the residence



Automatic Gate Installers, Inc.                                          App. # USE-0068-2023
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit             5
             is located. Not more than twenty five percent (25%) of the dwelling unit shall be used
             for the home occupation.

             - The applicant has verbally revised their prior statements saying now that a
             home office will be the only use on the property. There is still some ambiguity
             from their statements made to staff as to whether there will be storage of work
             vehicles and employee vehicles on the property. No updated plans were
             submitted showing the size or location of the office within the home and staff is
             unable to verify the square footage of the office to ensure that no more than
             (25%) of the dwelling unit will be used for the home occupation. Given the
             uncertainty, staff has maintained the prior recommended condition of approval
             that at least one (1) additional parking stall be added to the property.

             Services are conducted off-site at the job address. The applicants do not have
             vendors or customers coming to the home. The applicant has stated that the
             home office is located in a spare bedroom of approximately 200 square feet
             (Exhibit G). Scaled and dimensioned floor plans showing this have not been
             provided by the applicant as requested.

        I.   Signs: All signage in a residential area must comply with chapter 26, "Signs", of this
             title.

             -The applicants have indicated that they have no signs on the property related to
             the business and have indicated that they do not intend to put up any signage.

        J.   Traffic, Parking, And Access: No home occupation use shall generate pedestrian,
             parking, or vehicular traffic in excess of that customarily associated with the zone in
             which the use is located. All parking shall be provided and maintained on site with
             adequate provision for drop off traffic

             -The applicants have not been clear as to whether or not there will be work
             vehicles and employees at the property. Absent the requested updates to the
             application materials staff has maintained the recommended conditions to
             mitigate for the additional vehicles being stored and operated from the
             property.

             The applicants have been parking work and personal vehicles on a neighboring
             property. The applicants understand that they must provide all parking
             associated with the business on-site. This currently consists of the personal
             vehicle for the one (1) employee as well as two (2) work vehicles owned by the
             business. The work vehicles are switched out for the employee’s personal
             vehicles at the start of the day and switched back after work is done.




Automatic Gate Installers, Inc.                                          App. # USE-0068-2023
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit             6
             A minimum of two (2) parking spaces within the garage are the minimum
             required parking for the residence. Tandem spaces on a driveway located
             behind the minimum two (2) required parking spaces are also counted together
             with the required spaces in the garage. As the garage appears to be a three-car
             garage, two (2) spaces inside the garage and the tandem space behind them on
             the driveway are all attributed to the minimum parking for residential use, this
             leaves only one (1) space in the garage and the tandem space behind it for
             parking of the two (2) work vehicles in operation from the property. At least one
             (1) additional paved parking space is needed for the non-resident employee to
             park on site without impeding access to the second work vehicle in the garage.
             Installation of this additional space is still included in the recommended
             conditions section. If approval for a second non-resident employee is given their
             vehicle could occupy the space made available when the first work vehicle leaves
             the property. The addition of an additional parking space will also reduce the
             number of vehicles temporarily stored in the street while switching between
             work and personal vehicles.

             Current development standards do not permit the additional work vehicles at
             the property without a conditional use permit. In addition to the vehicles
             associated with the business, reportedly six (6) personal vehicles are in
             operation from the property by residents of the property. The applicant has
             stated that residents of the residence that were operating two (2) of the vehicles
             are moving out of the basement. This does not however prevent these residents
             or others from moving back in and increasing the number of personal vehicles
             operated from the residence again in the future.

             Staff is concerned that as the applicant will continue to displace private vehicles
             being operated from the residence onto the street and potentially to
             neighboring properties, even for a limited time, that negative impacts to the
             neighborhood will continue. Aerial photography (Exhibit F) shows vehicles
             parked in an illegal manner in the cul-de-sac near the home which supports the
             concern and complaint received. The number of vehicles associated with the
             property and location of the property on a cul-de-sac have created traffic and
             parking volumes in excess of what is customary for a daily basis on a residential
             cul-de-sac in the RA2 zone and approval of a conditional use permit would
             require mitigation of these impacts.

        K. Vehicles: Other than the business owner's personal transportation, there shall be no
           vehicles or equipment on the property associated with the home occupation which
           would not normally be found at a residence. No signage for the home occupation
           shall be allowed on vehicles.




Automatic Gate Installers, Inc.                                      App. # USE-0068-2023
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit           7
             -The applicant has indicated that there are (2) work vehicles, an excavator and
             utility trailer that are associated with the home occupation. Additionally, there is
             one (1) non-resident employee of the business that comes to the home.
             Conflicting statements regarding whether or not these vehicles and equipment
             will be parked at the property have been given. No supporting evidence or
             documentation has been provided to staff as to where these will be stored. The
             recommended conditions reflect the current operations where the vehicles are
             parked at or near the property, with the equipment stored behind a six-foot (6’)
             fence.

             All ten (10) vehicles associated with the property are passenger type vehicles
             that would be normally found at a residence. There is no signage on the work
             vehicles.

        L. Yards: Yards surrounding the dwelling and accessory buildings shall not be used for
           any activities or storage of any materials associated with the home occupation.

             -The applicants have indicated that they will not use accessory buildings and
             yard area to store any business-related materials or for business activities. This
             is ambiguous as the applicants have also given conflicting statements regarding
             removal of the equipment off-site to a commercial storage site. There is
             currently an excavator and utility trailer stored on or near the property
             associated with the business. No evidence or documentation supporting the
             proposed off-site storage has been provided. If the excavator or utility trailer
             remain at the property they should be adequately screened from view. The
             current six foot (6’) fencing appears to be insufficient for screening purposes and
             staff has included in the recommended conditions if approved that it be
             increased to eight feet (8’) in height.

        M. Customers: No customers allowed. Children accessing a limited daycare or limited
           preschool facility shall not be considered customers.

             -The applicants will not have any customers or vendors coming to the home.
             This is also included in the recommended conditions for approval.

        N. Utility Demand: The home occupation shall not cause a demand for public utilities in
           excess of that necessarily and customarily provided for residential uses.

            -The home occupation will not create an excessive demand for public utilities.

        O. Main Structure: The home occupations shall be conducted, located, and contained
           within the primary structure on the property.




Automatic Gate Installers, Inc.                                      App. # USE-0068-2023
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit           8
             -Office work is done in a spare bedroom in the home. The majority of the work is
             done off-site. Storage of equipment on site is currently occurring in the side yard
             and on neighboring property. The applicant has not put forth any proposed
             mitigation of negative impacts if this equipment were to remain at the property.
             The staff response to criterion L outlines a potential condition for mitigation if
             these remain at the property.

        P. Single-Family And Multiple-Family Dwellings: Home occupations listed as permitted or
           conditional within this title may be permitted in a single-family or a multiple-family
           dwelling, subject to the standards found within this section and section 9-34-060 of
           this chapter. Businesses within multiple-family dwellings shall provide an approval
           letter from the respective homeowners' association, or management company in the
           case of apartments, if the business proposes any employees, customers or business
           vehicles.

             -The home occupation is in a single-family dwelling and there is no HOA. The use
             of a home office is listed as a permitted use, however the manner in which the
             applicants have been operating and wish to operate the business in the future
             with an additional non-resident employee and work vehicles does not conform
             to the permitted use standards; thus a conditional use permit is required if the
             business is to continue operations from this location in the same manner as it
             currently is.

        Q. Licensure: Any home occupation involving childcare shall comply with all applicable
           state and local laws and regulations regarding residential childcare, including, but
           not limited to, provisions of the Utah child care licensing act, as set forth in Utah
           Code Annotated section 26-39-101 et seq., as amended, and the residential certificate
           childcare standards as set forth in the Utah administrative code section R430-50-1 et
           seq., as amended. In addition, cottage food production operations are regulated and
           inspected by the Utah department of agriculture. Any food related home occupation
           under their jurisdiction must comply with these regulations.

             -This home business does not include childcare or food handling.

Criteria For Approval.
The criteria for review and potential approval of a conditional use permit request is found
in Section 9-5-080(E) of the DCMC. This section depicts the standard of review for such
requests as:

        E. Approval Standards: The standards of this subsection shall apply to the issuance of a
            conditional use permit:
         1. A conditional use permit may be issued for a use to be located within a zone where
            the particular conditional use is allowed by the use regulations of the zone.



Automatic Gate Installers, Inc.                                      App. # USE-0068-2023
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit          9
          2. Reasonable conditions may be imposed as necessary to substantially mitigate
             reasonably anticipated detrimental effects of the proposed use. These conditions may
             include conditions concerning use, construction, character, location, landscaping,
             screening, parking, hours of operation, and other matters relating to the purposes
             and objectives of this section. Such conditions shall be expressly set forth in the
             motion authorizing the conditional use permit.
          3. If the reasonably anticipated detrimental effects of a proposed conditional use
             cannot be substantially mitigated by the imposition of reasonable conditions to
             achieve compliance with applicable standards, the conditional use may be denied.
          4. The following factors shall be reviewed and considered in determining whether a
             conditional use permit application should be approved, approved with conditions, or
             denied because reasonable conditions cannot be imposed to achieve compliance with
             applicable standards:
               a. The harmony and compliance of the proposed use with the objectives and
                   requirements of the city's general plan and this title;
               b. The suitability of the specific property for the proposed use;
               c. Whether the proposed use or facility may be injurious to potential or existing
                   development in the vicinity;
               d. The economic impact of the proposed facility or use on the surrounding area;
               e. The aesthetic impact of the proposed facility or use on the surrounding area;
               f. The safeguards proposed or provided to ensure adequate utilities, transportation
                   access, drainage, parking, loading space, lighting, screening, landscaping, open
                   space, fire protection, and pedestrian and vehicular circulation;
               g. The safeguards provided or proposed to prevent noxious or offensive emissions
                   such as noise, glare, dust, pollutants and odor from the proposed facility or use;
                   and
               h. The impact of the proposed facility or use on the health, safety, and welfare of the
                   city, the area, and persons owning or leasing property in the area.
          5. The planning commission may request additional information as may be reasonably
             needed to determine whether the requirements of this subsection E can be met.



REVIEWS
Planning Division Review. The Draper City Planning Division has completed their review of
the Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit submission. Comments from this division, if
any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Engineering and Public Works Divisions Review. The Draper City Engineering and Public
Works Divisions have completed their reviews of the Home Occupation Conditional Use
Permit submission. Comments from these divisions, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Building Division Review. The Draper City Building Division has completed their review of the
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit submission. Comments from this division, if any,



Automatic Gate Installers, Inc.                                         App. # USE-0068-2023
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit            10
can be found in Exhibit A.

Fire Division Review. The Draper City Fire Marshal has completed his review of the Home
Occupation Conditional Use Permit.

Noticing. Notice has been properly issued in the manner outlined in the City and State
Codes.



STAFF RECOMMENDATION
Staff recommends that the Planning Commission review the request based on the findings
listed below and the criteria for approval, or denial as listed within the staff report. The
Planning Commission should also review the request, hear from the applicant, and receive
public comment prior to making a decision.

If the Planning Commission decides to approve the request, staff recommends they include
the following conditions of approval:

        1. That all business requirements of the Draper City Engineering, Public Works
            Building, Business Licensing, Planning and Fire Divisions are satisfied throughout
            the operation of the business.
        2. A business license shall be maintained for the life of the business.
        3. No customers are allowed to come to the property.
        4. That the hours of operation for the business remain within the typical business
            hours of 8 am to 5 pm.
        5. That the number of non-resident employees not exceed two (2).
        6. That the number of work vehicles associated with the business not exceed two
            (2).
        7. That the minimum required two (2) parking spaces located inside of a garage for
            the parking of personal vehicles owned and operated by residents of the
            dwelling continue to be maintained for the residential use. These shall be
            maintained separate from and unimpeded by parking associated with the
            business.
        8. That a minimum of one (1) additional parking space be added to the west of the
            current driveway access and be designated for use by the non-resident
            employees to park onsite when arriving to pick up their work vehicle.
        9. That the excavator, utility trailer, and any other equipment associated with the
            business if stored on the property shall be located behind the front wall plane of
            the home, and be screened from view with an eight foot (8’) tall opaque fence.
            Parking of the utility trailer and other equipment shall be on a hard surface
            designed to control drainage water on-site in compliance with the parking
            ordinance requirements for utility trailers.
        10. That the applicants provide planning staff with an updated scaled and



Automatic Gate Installers, Inc.                                   App. # USE-0068-2023
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit        11
            dimensioned floor plan for all floors of the dwelling, including the office space,
            the attached garage, and any other space utilized for the business in the home.
        11. No stock in trade, inventory, or other merchandise to exceed two hundred fifty
            (250) square feet shall be kept on the premises. No outside storage is allowed.
        12. No nuisance may be caused through tools, items, equipment, or activities
            conducted at the property which are offensive or noxious by reason of the
            emission of odor, smoke, gas, vibration, magnetic interference, or noise.
        13. That the conditional use permit for the business may be revoked if at any time in
            the future, any of the listed conditions for approval are violated, or vehicles
            associated with the residence or business are found to be parked in an illegal
            manner on the street (Osborne Estate Circle).

The findings for approval as are follows:

        1. Reasonable mitigation measures can be placed on the conditional use to
           alleviate anticipated detrimental effects, including parking.
        2. The proposed use will not, under the circumstances of the particular case, be
           detrimental to the health, safety, or general welfare of persons residing or
           working in the vicinity, or injurious to property or improvements in the vicinity.
        3. The proposed use of the particular location is necessary or desirable to provide
           a service or facility which will contribute to the general well-being of the
           neighborhood and the community.
        4. The proposed use will comply with applicable regulations and conditions
           specified in ordinance and will comply with the intent of the City General Plan.

The findings for denial as are follows:

        1. The existing and anticipated detrimental effects of the business have not been
           sufficiently addressed by the proposal and are not able to be mitigated through
           the imposition of mitigation measures that are reasonable.
        2. The proposed use is not in harmony with the objectives and requirements of the
           city's general plan and will be detrimental to the health, safety, or general
           welfare of persons residing or working in the vicinity, or injurious to property or
           improvements in the vicinity.
        3. Inadequate safeguards were proposed to ensure impacts from vehicular
           circulation, parking, loading space, and screening were resolved.
        4. Additional information and documentation requested by the Planning
           Commission was not provided.
        5. The proposed use of the particular location is not necessary or desirable to
           provide a service or facility which will contribute to the general well-being of the
           neighborhood and the community.
        6. The proposed use does not comply with applicable regulations and conditions
           specified in ordinance or does not comply with the intent of the City General



Automatic Gate Installers, Inc.                                    App. # USE-0068-2023
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit         12
             Plan.




MODEL MOTIONS
Sample Motion for Approval – I move that we approve the Automatic Gate Installers, Inc.
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit, as requested by Todd and Janet Olsen
representing application USE-0068-2023 based on the findings and subject to the
conditions listed in the Staff Report dated January 25, 2024

Sample Motion for Modified Approval– I move that we approve the Automatic Gate
Installers, Inc. Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit, as requested by Todd and Janet
Olsen representing application USE-0068-2023 based on the findings and subject to the
conditions listed in the Staff Report dated January 25, 2024 and as modified by the findings
and conditions below:

        1. List any additional findings and conditions…

Sample Motion for Denial – I move that we deny the Automatic Gate Installers, Inc. Home
Occupation Conditional Use Permit, as requested by Todd and Janet Olsen representing
application USE-0068-2023 based on the findings and subject to the conditions listed in the
Staff Report dated January 25, 2024.

.




Automatic Gate Installers, Inc.                                  App. # USE-0068-2023
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit        13
                                      EXHIBIT A
                                 DEPARTMENT REVIEWS

REVIEWS ARE NOT MEANT TO BE AN ALL INCLUSIVE LIST OF POSSIBLE COMMENTS OR
CONDITIONS.

Planning Division Review.

    1. Staff’s comments have principally been included in the body of the staff report.
       Staff remains uncertain about what the applicants’ actual intentions for continuing
       business operations are as many conflicting statements or omissions of key details
       or documentation exist. There are existing negative impacts to the neighborhood
       related to parking, vehicular circulation, views, aesthetics, etc. as a result of the
       business operations, and if a conditional use permit were approved negative
       impacts would remain to some degree.

Engineering and Public Works Divisions Review.

   1. The present and future requirements for transportation, traffic, water, sewer, and other
      utilities for the subject site do not appear to be detrimentally impacted as described.
      Given the location and proposed use, the use is not anticipated to generate a significant
      impact to water, sewer, or other potential utilities.

   2. The number of trips generated by the home owner/employees will not have a
      detrimental impact to traffic in the area due to two employees and no customers
      visiting the residence. The applicant has indicated all services will be provided offsite
      where the employees meet at the residence and then leave to conduct service calls.
      With the applicant’s anticipation that there will be no more than two employees and
      no customers, no significant impact to traffic is anticipated with the proposed use.

   3. No on-street parking is requested for the employees in the application. The applicant
      indicates all home business parking will be in the driveway onsite. Osborne Estate
      Circle is a public local street where on-street parking is currently permitted. Parking
      on Osborne Estate Circle may impact traffic if it is during poor weather or if there are
      other cars parked on the opposite side or within the cul-de-sac of the street nearby.
      However, based on the information from the applicant, no significant impact to
      parking is anticipated with the proposed use.

   4. The proposed use does not appear detrimental to the health, safety, or general
      welfare of the persons residing or working in the vicinity, or injurious to the property
      or improvements to the vicinity.
Building Division Review.

       1. No additional comments provided.

Fire Division Review.

       1. No additional comments provided.
  EXHIBIT B
VICINITY MAP
 EXHIBIT C
AERIAL MAP
  EXHIBIT D
LAND USE MAP
 EXHIBIT E
ZONING MAP
EXHIBIT F
SITE PLAN
      EXHIBIT G
HOME OFFICE FLOOR PLAN
      EXHIBIT H
APPLICANT STATEMENTS
              EXHIBIT I
ORIGINAL BUSINESS LICENSE APPLICATION
    EXHIBIT J
REVISED SITE PLAN
