MEMO
To: Planning Commission
From: Maryann Pickering, AICP
Date: 2024-05-09
Re: Public Hearing: Big Willow Phase 10 - Subdivision Plat Amendment, Site Plan and
Deviation Request (Administrative Actions)


Comments:


This application is a request for approval of a Subdivision Plat Amendment, Site Plan and
Sidewalk Deviation for approximately 5.05 acres located on the south side of 11400 S and
east of Engelmann Drive, at approximately 11491 S. Engelmann Drive. The property is
currently zoned RM2. The applicant is requesting that a Subdivision Plat Amendment, Site
Plan and Sidewalk Deviation be approved to allow for the development of the currently
vacant site with a 55-lot multiple-family townhome project.



This property is part of the overall Big Willow Creek development, and the proposed
Subdivision Plat Amendment would amend a part of Parcel A of the Big Willow Creek
Phase 6 Subdivision Plat. Big Willow Creek originally obtained approval in January 2017
for 115 dwelling units on 49.75 acres. The approval included a Development Agreement
limiting the density to a maximum of 2.3 dwelling units per acre (du/ac), and requires a
variety of lot sizes from 20,000 square feet to 10,000 square feet in size. Preliminary plat
approval for all 115 lots was approved by the Planning Commission on July 18, 2017.
 Phases 1A and 1B obtained final plat approval on September 18, 2018, with an amended
plat approved for these phases on November 21, 2019.

In April 2019 the applicant amended the development agreement (First Amendment
Development Agreement) in order to add 18.1 acres of property into the Big Willow Creek
Development. The First Amendment of the Development Agreement rezoned some of
the additional 18.1 acres of property to the RM2 zone, but limited any development to a
maximum of 9 du/ac. The remainder of the property was rezoned to R4.

On December 10, 2019 the applicant obtained a rezone and land use amendment for an
additional 4.12 acres of land located adjacent to the development. This area was not
included in the development agreements at the time of rezone. On May 5, 2020, the
applicant obtained approval to amend the Development Agreement a second time
(Second Amendment Development Agreement). The agreement added the 4.12 acres of
property that was rezoned on December 10, 2019 into the boundary of the agreement,
set density standards for development on the additional properties added in the first and
second agreements, and set standards for the approval and development of Phase 2.

The applicant obtained approval for final subdivision plat for Phase 2 on August 27, 2020.
 They also obtained approval for a minor subdivision in the Phase 6 area on April 7, 2021
to reconfigure the access road from 11400 South. Phase 1B obtained approval to
reconfigure the existing roadway into a cul-de-sac on April 22, 2021. Phase 1A was
vacated by the City Council on April 6, 2020 to allow for the reconfiguration of the access
road.

Phase 3 final plat was approved by the Planning Commission on August 26, 2021 after an
amendment to the development agreement (Third Amendment) was amended on April
20, 2021 which set the standards for approval of the Phase 3 plat.

Phase 7 and 8, which included small lot single-family and townhomes was approved by
the Planning Commission on May 23, 2023.

Findings:

Subdivision Plat Amendment

For Approval:

  1. There is good cause for the vacation or amendment; and no public street, right-of-
     way, or easement has been vacated or amended.



Findings for Denial:

  1. There is not good cause for the vacation or amendment; and a public street, right-
     of-way, or easement has been vacated or amended.


Site Plan

For Approval:

  1. The site plan conforms to applicable standards set forth in this title, including but
     not limited to, building heights, setbacks, access points, parking, landscaping, and
     building materials.
  2. The second sidewalk or portion of the sidewalk does not provide pedestrian
     connectivity to any units or amenities.
  3. Ample pedestrian circulation has been provided.
  4. The purpose and intent of the development standards set forth in DCMC Chapter 9-
     32 are met.
  5. The second sidewalk or portion thereof is unnecessary and/or undesirable.
  6. The proposed development plans meet the intent, goals, and objectives of the
     general plan and the purpose of the zone district in which the site is located.
  7. The public facilities and services in the area are adequate to support the subject
     development, as required by engineering standards and specifications.
  8. The proposed development plans comply with the engineering standards found in
     Titles 7, 8, 11, 12, 16, and 18 of this code, including traffic, storm water drainage, and
     utilities concerns.


For Denial:

  1. The site plan does not conform to applicable standards set forth in this title,
     including but not limited to, building heights, setbacks, access points, parking,
     landscaping, and building materials.
  2. The proposed development plans do not meet the intent, goals, and objectives of
     the general plan and the purpose of the zone district in which the site is located.
  3. The second sidewalk or portion of the sidewalk does provide pedestrian connectivity
     to any units or amenities.
  4. Ample pedestrian circulation is not being provided.
  5. The purpose and intent of the development standards set forth in DCMC Chapter 9-
     32 are not being met.
  6. The second sidewalk or portion thereof is necessary and/or desirable.
  7. The public facilities and services in the area are not adequate to support the subject
     development, as required by engineering standards and specifications.
  8. The proposed development plans do not comply with the engineering standards
     found in Titles 7, 8, 11, 12, 16, and 18 of this code, including traffic, storm water
     drainage, and utilities concerns.


Deviation: Sidewalks

For Approval:

  1. The second sidewalk or portion of the sidewalk does provide pedestrian connectivity
     to any units or amenities;
  2. Ample pedestrian circulation has been provided;
  3. The purpose and intent of the development standards set forth in this chapter are
     met; and
  4. The second sidewalk or portion thereof is unnecessary and/or undesirable.
For Denial:

  1. The second sidewalk or portion of the sidewalk does provide pedestrian connectivity
     to units or amenities;
  2. Ample pedestrian circulation has not been provided;
  3. The purpose and intent of the development standards set forth in this chapter are
     not met; and
  4. The second sidewalk or portion thereof is necessary and/or desirable.




ATTACHMENTS:

Big Willow 10 PC Staff Report (BW10) - Final.pdf
