MEMO
To: City Council
From: Travis DeJong
Date: 2024-08-06
Re: Public Hearing: Providing Local Consent for a Single Event Permit for The Christmas
Box International.



Comments:

The Christmas Box International will hold an event serving alcoholic beverages at 1283 E
Mike Weir Dr on September 27, 2024 from 5:30PM until 9:30PM. They are seeking Local
Consent for a Single Event Permit. The event will have 300 attendees, with two arrival
times 5:30pm-6:30pm, and after 6:30pm. The venue has guaranteed the use of the entire
parking lot. The parking lot has 224 parking spaces.

They have provided the following:
- Bond payable to the Department of Alcoholic Beverage Services.
- Floor map showing where alcohol is to be served, stored, and consumed.
- A background check conducted by the Bureau of Criminal Identification.

The findings for Local Consent approval are as follows:

Per Utah State Code 32B-9-201(5), single event permits do not have any proximity
requirements to meet.

DCMC 6-4-050 states that organizations are limited to four (4) single event permits per
calendar year if at least one permit is a one hundred twenty (120) hours single event
permit. Organizations may apply for up to twelve (12) single event permits per calendar
year if they are all seventy-two (72) hour single event permits.

The applicant has applied for one seventy-two hour permit in calendar year 2024 and
meets this requirement.

DCMC 6-4-050 places no restrictions on the number of single event permits that can be
granted by the City.

Below are possible conditions of approval to mitigate possible concerns the City Council.
They may be amended upon further deliberation by the City Council:
    Doors to the outdoor patios may only be propped open during the check-in time for
    the event and shall not be propped open past 7:30PM. After 7:30PM doors shall be
    kept closed when not used for exit and entry to prevent sound pollution outside.
    Music shall not be played on speakers outdoors.
    Parking on Mike Weir Dr. is prohibited.
    Applicant shall advertise the event has having no street parking and encourage
    carpooling and rideshare options.
    Observe fire code occupancy limits.


ATTACHMENTS:

Floor Plan.pdf
ATTACHMENTS:

Bond.pdf
ATTACHMENTS:

The_Christmas_Box_International_Local_Consent_PP.pptx
