                       CITY COUNCIL AGENDA

                       Tuesday, January 16, 2024, 5:30 PM
                       1020 E. Pioneer Road Draper, Utah
                       Council Chambers

5:30 PM STUDY MEETING

       Council/Manager Reports

       Update: The Point Development - Alan Matheson

       Training: First Amendment - Mike Barker and Scott Young

7:00 PM BUSINESS MEETING

1.     Call to Order

2.     Pledge of Allegiance

3.     Public Comments
       To be considerate of everyone attending the meeting, public comments will be
       restricted to items that are not listed on this or a future agenda and limited to three
       minutes per person. Comments which cannot be made within these limits should be
       submitted in writing to the City Recorder prior to noon the day before the meeting.
       Comments pertaining to an item on the agenda should not be given at this time but
       should be held until that item is called.

4.     Consent Items

       4.a Approval of the January 9, 2024, City Council Meeting Minutes.

       4.b Approval of Resolution #24-04
           A Resolution of the Draper City Council approving a waiver and consent to
           the removal of rights to appoint board members to the Draper Community
           Foundation. Staff: Kellie Challburg

5.     Items for Council Consideration

       5.a Public Hearing: Ordinance #1601
           An Ordinance of Draper City amending the text of the Land Use and Development
           Code (Title 9) and the Land Development Code (Title 17) of the Draper City Municipal
           Code relating to a new process for subdivision review and approval based on Senate
           Bill 174. Staff report by Todd Taylor

6.     Adjournment
I, the City Recorder of Draper City, certify that copies of this agenda for the Draper City
Council meeting to be held January 16, 2024, were posted at Draper City Hall, Draper
City      website www.draperutah.gov, and the Utah Public Notice website at
www.utah.gov/pmn.

Date Posted:
                                             Laura Oscarson, MMC, City Recorder
                                             Draper City, State of Utah




In compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act, any individuals needing special
accommodations or services during this meeting shall notify Laura Oscarson, City
Recorder at (801) 576-6502 or laura.oscarson@draperutah.gov, at least 24 hours prior to
the meeting.
