MINUTES OF THE DRAPER CITY PLANNING COMMISSION MEETING HELD ON
THURSDAY, JUNE 27, 2024, IN THE DRAPER CITY COUNCIL CHAMBERS

PARTICIPATING: Andrew Adams, Chair
               Commission Member Susan Nixon
               Commission Member Gary Ogden
               Commission Member Kendra Shirey
               Commission Member Mary Squire
               Alternate Commission Member Christine Green

DID NOT SIT:         Alternate Commission Member Shivam Shah
                     Alternate Commission Member Laura Fidler

EXCUSED:             Commission Member Lisa Fowler

STAFF:               Jennifer Jastremsky, Community Development Director
                     Todd Draper, Planning Manager
                     Mike Barker, City Attorney
                     Brien Maxfield, Senior Engineering Manager
                     Todd Taylor, City Planner III
                     Nick Whittaker, City Planner
                     Amie Salazar, Officer Manager

6:30 PM Business Meeting

Chair Andrew Adams called the meeting to order at 6:30 PM and welcomed those present.

Community Development Director, Jennifer Jastremky introduced New City Planner, Nick
Whittaker.

1.     Items for Commission Consideration.

       A.     Action Item: Approve Planning Commission Meeting Minutes for May 9,
              2024. (Administrative Action).

Motion: Commissioner Nixon moved to APPROVE the Planning Commission Meeting
Minutes for May 9, 2024, as written.

Second: Commissioner Ogden seconded the motion.

Vote: A roll call vote was taken with the Commissioners voting 5-to-0 in favor of the motion.
Commissioners Nixon, Ogden, Shirey, Green, and Squire voted “Yes.” The motion passed
unanimously.
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
June 27, 2024
Page 2

       B.      Action Item: Approve Planning Commission Meeting Minutes for May 23,
               2024. (Administrative Action).

Motion: Commissioner Squire moved to APPROVE the Planning Commission Meeting
Minutes for May 23, 2024, as written.

Second: Commissioner Shirey seconded the motion.

Vote: A roll call vote was taken with the Commissioners voting 5-to-0 in favor of the motion.
Commissioners Nixon, Ogden, Shirey, Green, and Squire voted “Yes.” The motion passed
unanimously.

       C.      Public Hearing: City-Initiated South Mountain ADU Update.
               (Legislative Item).
               On the request of Draper City, a request for approval of a Zoning Text Amendment
               to Draper City Municipal Code Sections 9-31-020 and 9-31-090 regarding
               Accessory Dwelling Unit (“ADU”) standards for a portion of the South Mountain
               development. Known as application 2024-0253-TA. Staff Contact: Todd Taylor,
               801-576-6510, todd.taylor@draperutah.gov.

City Planner, Todd Taylor presented the Staff Report and displayed Aerial and Vicinity Maps of
the subject property. The Land Use Designation is Residential Medium-Density and the zoning is
RM. It was reported that the alley-loaded properties were originally developed under the original
South Mountain Development Agreement and Design Guidelines. The Design Guidelines
encourage Granny Flats and Carriage Houses but there are no definitions for those types of units.
Typically, when that is the case staff looks to the Code that was in place at the time of development
to determine other standards. The 1990 Code was in place at the time and the closest uses include
a Guesthouse, which is similar to a Detached Accessory Dwelling Unit (“D-ADU”), and an ADU,
which is focused more toward an Internal Accessory Dwelling Unit (“I-ADU”). In the Code,
neither uses were allowed to be separately rented or leased from the home.

The current Code includes a section that addresses the South Mountain Development Agreement,
which is exempt from the current Title 9 except in cases of ADUs and second kitchens. The current
ADU Code allows both D-ADUs and I-ADUs to be separately leased if the property is owner-
occupied. Minimum lot size standards are also included. The proposed Code Amendment intends
to help facilitate originally constructed units to come into compliance with the current Code and
allow the owners of the originally constructed detached Carriage Houses and Granny Flats to apply
for an ADU permit. The proposed text exempts the lots from the minimum lot size requirement
of 12,000 square feet because the lots are smaller than 12,000 square feet. The Carriage Houses
or apartments that existed as of the date of the adoption of the ordinance were identified. There
will also be a proposed exhibit showing the location of the subject properties that will be exempted
from the minimum lot size requirement. The units will be required to comply with all other ADU
standards such as being owner-occupied, not having another I-ADU or D-ADU, and providing one
additional paved parking space. The standards apply across the City. One letter was received that
was provided to the Commission.
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
June 27, 2024
Page 3

Mr. Taylor was asked to address the number of properties this action will affect. Mr. Taylor
explained that it will only impact properties that were originally constructed with a unit over the
garage that exists as of the date of the adoption of the ordinance. It was estimated that the proposed
change will apply to about half of the units.

In response to a question raised, Mr. Taylor stated that in 1990, the D-ADUs and I-ADUs were
not allowed to be rented separately. Even if the property was owner-occupied, the units were not
allowed to be rented. Ms. Jastremsky explained that the entire property could be rented but the
other portions could not be rented separately. Chair Adams summarized the proposed change and
stated that Exhibit G specifies the lots that fall under the standard ADU requirements throughout
the City. The proposed action grants an exemption because of the lot size.

Chair Adams opened the public hearing.

Martin Cummings gave his address as 1051 Straw Hat Lane and has been a resident in the homes
identified since October 1995. He asked what is proposed by way of a permit, cost, and
restrictions. Mr. Cummings stated that his son lives in his mother-in-law apartment and asked if
this action will result in an inspection.

Mike Zackrison gave his address as 14051 South Pepi Band Road and stated that he has lived in
his home for the past 20 years. He was surprised to see that the previous Code did not allow the
rental of the units because the majority are rentals. There is an active market with the current
rentals being $1,100 per month. He commented that the Code is not useful without enforcement
and he asked what type of enforcement is proposed. He commented that since the new ADU rules
went into effect he has not seen any change in how the properties are being used. If the change
takes effect he wanted to ensure that everyone is adhering to the same set of rules.

Chair Adams asked staff to provide information on the standard ADU rules for the City that would
also apply to this area. Ms. Jastremsky explained that there are General Standards and some that
are specific to D-ADUs. Chair Adams explained that to use any part of the home as an ADU it
would have to be owner-occupied. The intention was for a renter to help offset the owner’s housing
costs and provide affordable housing in the form of a rental unit. Ms. Jastremsky explained that
the rental must meet certain requirements, have a full kitchen, and match the home architecturally.
There cannot be separate utility meters and a square footage minimum based on the size of the
home. There can only be one D-ADU per lot that meets the minimum building setbacks and there
must be one additional parking space that does not include the garage spaces that are required for
the home. The parking space must be additional and cannot be in tandem with the garage spaces.

Chair Adams explained that currently, an owner-occupant is allowed to have a separate non-family
renter in an ADU. A non-owner occupant must rent out the entire unit. Ms. Jastremsky explained
that the proposed change does not address I-ADUs such as basement apartments, which would still
be prohibited. Chair Adams explained that the specified units are being grandfathered into the
new ADU rules because the lots are too small. What was being discussed was the specified area
where the lots are too small to qualify. The proposed text amendment will allow them to operate
under the same rules as any other D-ADU.
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
June 27, 2024
Page 4

Hubbard Green gave his address a 14149 South Radial Lane and stated that of the 81 homes, 40
have mother-in-law apartments above the garage and the rest do not. He purchased his home in
1997 and he did not have an ADU. The Mayor at the time allowed them to grandfather in the R2
zoning so that they could construct an I-ADU in the basement. He asked about the rules for I-
ADUs and stated that his contains a kitchen. He was concerned about safety and potential Code
violations over the last 30 years in the legacy area and asked if there were any significant problems.

Josh Christensen reported that for the past 21 years, he has lived in the neighborhood directly
adjacent to the proposed units. About 10 years ago there was a shift where someone figured out
that they could convert the tiny lots and homes into triplexes and rental units. For 10 years it was
a beautiful neighborhood for families. After the shift, owners began renting out their basements,
upstairs, and garages which resulted in congestion in the neighborhood. Dozens of great families
moved away because they felt that things were too tight and the result was degradation of the
neighborhood. The family vibe is gone and the character of the area has changed dramatically.
The residents worked with the City to update some of the standards and bring them in line with
State law to help revitalize the neighborhood. Mr. Christensen was concerned and wanted to make
sure that the regulations are solidified. He also stressed the importance of enforcement. He stated
that the laws have been on the books since the beginning and have been violated for the past 27
years. Over the past 2 ½ years there have been very strict laws and nothing has been done. He
asked that the Commission keep the goal of overall community benefit in mind. The goal is to
revive the neighborhood and make it a great place for starter homes for families.

Shaun Whetstein identified himself as the owner of one of the homes in the neighborhood. He
moved away about eight years ago specifically because he started to feel the shift described by
Mr. Christensen. When he lived in the neighborhood, they had a great community but he has seen
the dynamics change with cars always parked on the street leaking oil. They can now only park
on one side of the street because if they park on both sides the streets get clogged up and emergency
vehicles cannot get through. He doubted that anyone who currently owns a home in that
neighborhood and rents it out is going to be economically challenged by the proposed changes.
Mr. Whetstein stated that he rents his home to one family. He wanted to see the neighborhood get
back to how it was before. He commented that the area is no longer appealing as a place for most
people unless they are short-term tenants, which devalues the area. He agreed with the direction
proposed by the City and felt that if there were more owner-occupied units, the neighborhood
would be cleaner and better maintained.

Brady Ririe admitted that he is not following the rules. He bought a home in the neighborhood
with the intent to raise his family there. For him, it was a starter home and all he could afford.
Eventually, he outgrew the home but kept it and now rents it to his sister-in-law and family. They
also have a garage apartment that is occupied by someone who works at Harmon’s grocery store.
He stated that changing the rules makes it more difficult for people to service Draper City and
work in occupations where they cannot afford a home on a one-half-acre lot. He stated that if the
rule has been in place for 27 years and never followed, he acknowledged that it is an issue. He
would not, however, change things going forward and impact everyone who has tried to build a
retirement for their family. He did not support eliminating something that has never been enforced
and doing away with it now. He asked how the City will address the situation going forward.
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
June 27, 2024
Page 5

Abby Shahe gave her address as 14018 Old Saddle Road and stated that she previously resided at
14136 Senor Band Road. They moved three streets over because they love the neighborhood. She
distinctly recalled one day when she was out front and an ambulance was unable to get up the
street because of congestion. It is a huge problem and she was very sympathetic to those who
would like to live in the area since it would be a more affordable option. She pointed out that
many property owners have several homes. She would be much more sympathetic to the idea that
affordable housing options are being provided if there was not such a large investment behind it.
She stated that it is coming at the cost of people who still live in the neighborhood. It did not seem
like a fair burden to shoulder if those who are benefiting live elsewhere. Ms. Shahe was also very
concerned about enforcement and admitted that it is confusing and has been inconsistent. She
suggested that they move forward with the intent and purpose of making sure that those who
benefit from rentals and are burdened are the same.

Eddie Lazari reported that he has lived in his home for 17 years. He asked about parking and
where people will park. He lives across from the townhomes and cannot park in front of his home
because of congestion. He felt he had no rights because the rental tenants use all of the parking.
Every unit has a two-car garage and there are more townhomes than homes. He was certain that
the parking issue is coming from the townhomes.

Ken Murdock gave his address as 246 East Tanager Lane and stated that he and his family have
owned three of the homes for nearly 30 years. He was shocked to hear that their neighborhood
would no longer qualify for something like this. He considered what is proposed to be a step in
the right direction. He commented that one of their homes has a garage apartment, a main house,
a basement apartment, and eight parking spaces counting the garage, which is more than adequate.
Others have more than that and many of the landlords they have spoken to have adequate parking.
The issue is with the residents who do not use their garages for parking. He reported that one of
the former residents who spoke tonight, never parked in his garage. His business was in the garage
and they used two spaces in front of homes, which created an issue. The homes have plenty of
room for the extra parking from the alley. Mr. Murdock stated that he has owned the properties
for a long time and they are his retirement and something he has paid for over the last 30 years.
When he contacted the State he was informed that the City has the right to grandfather one-on-one
situations. Any of the rules they choose can be grandfathered on properties. They can conduct an
inspection, look at leases, and ask for permits. Mr. Murdock stated that there are protections in
place and permits that have to be renewed annually.

Dan Portwood gave his address as 14112 South Pepi Band Road and stated that he moved to
Draper about five years ago from Park City. He moved into the neighborhood and has noticed
over the past few years that the City has failed the neighborhood. The City has posted no parking
signs everywhere. The previous Police Chief informed him that until the City enforces the ADU
rules the State and City both adopted 2 ½ years ago, they cannot enforce parking. Mr. Portwood
stated that investor-owned properties tend to have yards that are not mowed and parking issues.
Originally, there was a map where the entire area excluded ADUs altogether primarily because of
the small lots. He appreciated the investors who have owned homes for a long time but as they
have all admitted, their rentals are illegal. He pointed out that an illegal use cannot be
grandfathered in. He appreciated the City’s efforts to accommodate the illegal ADUs but in reality,
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
June 27, 2024
Page 6

these homes are not affordable, primarily because investors can buy them and put an apartment
over the garage, in the basement, and another above. He stated that allowing ADUs makes Draper
City look like it is not protecting the neighborhood. He considered it an embarrassment.

Michelle Sears reported that she and her husband, Vince, own one of the homes and have been
Draper residents since 1996. Their retirement rests in one of these homes. They purchased one
specifically because it had a garage apartment that could be rented. They saw it as an opportunity.
It was important for them to be good neighbors because they love living in Draper. For many
years it worked perfectly for the Sears and others. Their first renter in their garage apartment was
a single mother who lived there with her daughter. She lived in their home for more than three
years. Their next tenant was quiet and no complaints were ever received from neighbors. Neither
had an impact on the neighborhood because they had off-street parking behind the home. When
the State looks to provide affordable housing, those are the type of people they are looking to help.
The apartments they provide are good options. Despite the small lot sizes, she felt the situation
worked for the owner and the renter. Ms. Sears stated that they will continue to be good neighbors.
When they look at a renter, they conduct background checks and they live close by. They make
sure that the yard is well maintained and they do yard maintenance.

Vicki Christensen reported that she lived in the area for over 20 years and has seen the decline and
the value of renting the homes. She pointed out that the value of the homes has doubled or tripled
over time and suggested the investors sell and use that money elsewhere. Many of those who have
spoken in favor have lived in the area and know the damage the rentals have done to the
neighborhood. There have been countless issues with dogs, parking, and congestion. One street
in particular has many rentals that results in numerous cars being parked throughout the
community. She stated that it is difficult to get around the neighborhood with the high number of
cars. Ms. Christensen stated that she moved from the townhomes because of the overall decline.
She appreciated those who take care of their homes but some do not. There was a situation where
a teenager was dealing drugs out of one of the homes. He was renting illegally through a sublet.
The neighbors watched this young man do drugs and carry large amounts of cash near schools and
the Amphitheatre. She stressed the need for a change and for action to be taken.

Colton Reading, a long-time Draper resident, stated that he has owned one of these properties since
it was built. He understood the concerns with parking and emergency vehicle access but went
back to the original Development Plan that indicated that the street widths and parking were
acceptable. He questioned what has changed. If there is to be a limit on the number of cars, the
parking rules have been in place for some time. Another option was to impose an occupancy
number on those living in rentals. He noted that as owners they have a responsibility to maintain
their properties. In Draper City, many homes are owner-occupied with no additional rental that
are not properly maintained. He wants it to be a safe neighborhood and they conduct background
checks on every tenant. He asked that the Commission pay special attention to the letter submitted
earlier by Dave Bennett.

Julie Lazare reported that she has lived in the neighborhood for 17 years. She was unaware of this
situation when she first moved to the neighborhood. She has a lot of memories in this
neighborhood and loves many of those present. At one point she and her family lived in the home
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
June 27, 2024
Page 7

as renters and someone else lived in the garage apartment. They have since purchased the home.
She was heartbroken by what she was hearing. She was unaware of some of the things people
have struggled with but this is a good neighborhood where people care for each other. She stated
that they are in the middle of a housing crisis and Draper is not exempt from that.

There were no further public comments. The public hearing was closed.

Chair Adams commented that this neighborhood has been around for about 27 years. Before the
proposed ADU text change, he asked what has been allowed. Ms. Jastremsky reported that the
Development Agreement for South Mountain called for Carriage Houses in this neighborhood and
apartments above garages were encouraged. The Code at that time allowed for D-ADUs that were
referred to as Guest Houses but they were not allowed to be rented out separately from the home.
There was nothing in the Development Agreement for South Mountain that modified that
requirement. It was clarified the units above the garages were never allowed to be rented out
separately from the home.

Chair Adams clarified that if the City did not approve the proposed ADU policy then the units
would be subject to the previous code and not be allowed to be rented out. Ms. Jastremsky
answered in the affirmative. Chair Adams stated this change was a move forward. They have
heard stories about owner-occupants in the main home that helped the owner. It was clarified that
an owner-occupant in the house with a renter in the garage would be allowed under the proposed
ADU guidelines. Possible options were discussed.

The stories shared about low-income renters are exactly what the ADU framework is all about.
The intent is to allow people to live in Draper who otherwise could not afford it. It also lets people
buy single-family homes in the front who otherwise could not afford it without any assistance from
renting the back unit. There is a symbiotic relationship between the two. Chair Adams commented
that grandfathering would be a step backward. What is proposed is to move forward since the lots
are too small. They must, however, comply with parking and kitchen requirements, have no
separate gas meters, and ensure that the owner-occupant lives in the front in the larger units. The
larger space should be occupied by the owner and the smaller space by a renter. The biggest impact
would be to have a family in the front house and a renter family in the back, which would not be
allowed under any circumstance.

Commissioner Squire commented that what is proposed seemed to right previous wrongs. When
the homes were built, there was no ADU ordinance in place. The City is compliant with the State
requirements including owner-occupied units, which is required by the State. It seemed that dual
renters would be unprecedented and equates to multi-family housing. That is what changed
materially. The Code amendment does not take rights away from anyone. It adds to property
rights and makes the D-ADUs able to apply for a permit. This was considered a step forward.
Commissioner Squire recognized that enforcement might be an issue but is not within the purview
of the Planning Commission. It was noted that Code Enforcement operates off of complaints.
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
June 27, 2024
Page 8

Chair Adams described the role of the Planning Commission, which consists of members who are
appointed and not elected. The intent tonight is to forward a recommendation to the City Council
who will make the final decision.

Motion: Commissioner Ogden moved to forward a POSITIVE recommendation to the City
Council for the Zoning Text Amendment as requested by Draper City for the City-initiated
South Mountain ADU Update Application Number 2024-0253-TA subject to the following:

Findings:

       1.     The proposed amendment is consistent with the goals, objectives, and policies
              of the City's General Plan.

       2.     The proposed amendment is appropriate given the context of the request and
              there is sufficient justification for a modification to the development codes.

       3.     The proposed amendment will not create a conflict with any other section or
              part of the development codes or the General Plan.

       4.     The potential effects of the proposed amendment have been evaluated and are
              determined not to be detrimental to public health, safety, or welfare and
              represents an overall community benefit.

       5.     The proposed text amendment implements best current, professional practices
              of urban planning, design, and engineering practices.

Second: Commissioner Shirey seconded the motion.

Vote: A roll call vote was taken with the Commissioners voting 5-to-0 in favor of the motion.
Commissioners Nixon, Ogden, Shirey, Green, and Squire voted “Yes.” The motion passed
unanimously.

2.     Adjournment.

Motion: Commissioner Squire moved to ADJOURN.

Vote: The motion passed with the unanimous consent of the Commission.

The meeting adjourned at approximately 7:29 PM.
