                               Development Review Committee
                                    1020 East Pioneer Road
                                      Draper, UT 84020
                                      January 19, 2024

To:             Draper City Planning Commission
                Business Date: Feburary 8, 2024

From:           Development Review Committee

Prepared By: Todd Taylor, Planner III
             Planning Division
             Community Development Department
             801-576-6510, todd.taylor@draperutah.gov

Re:     Chick-Fil-A – Zoning Map Amendment Request
        Application No.: 2023-4605-MA
        Applicant:        Kip Wadsworth, agent for Wadsworth Bangerter Crossing, LLC,
                          represented by 4G Development and Consulting
        Project Location: 13673 S. 100 E.
        Current Zoning: CO2 (Professional Office) and CR (Regional Commercial) Zones
        Acreage:          Area of request: 0.803 Acres (Approximately 34,979 ft2)
                          Entire property area: 1.68 Acres (Approximately 73,070 ft2)
        Request:          Request for approval of a Zoning Map Amendment to modify the
                          property’s zoning designation from CO2 and CR to only CR.



BACKGROUND AND SUMMARY

This application is a request for approval of a Zoning Map Amendment for approximately
0.803 acres of a 1.68 acre property located south of Bangerter Highway, at approximately
13673 S. 100 E. (Exhibits C & D). The property is currently zoned CO2 and CR. The applicant
is requesting that a Zoning Map Amendment be approved to place the entire property in the
CR zone.

The property in its current configuration was created by the Bangerter Crossing II Office Plat
which was recorded on November 9, 2021. This amended subdivision plat combined Lots
402 and 403 from the Bangerter Crossing Lot 4 amended plat (approximately 0.874 acres)
with a portion of the parcel to the west (approximately 0.803 acres) The new Lot 404 is
divided by the two zoning districts that existed on the separate properties before they were



Chick-Fil-A                                                         App. No. 2023-4605-MA
Zoning Map Amendment Request                  1
combined. In 2022, a Master Development Agreement (MDA) was approved for construction
of an office building on the subject property. The applicant is no longer pursuing the office
building.



ANALYSIS

General Plan and Zoning.

 Table 1                 General Plan and Zoning Designations                    Exhibit
 Existing Land Use       Community/Neighborhood Commercial                       Exhibit E
 Current Zoning          CO2 and CR                                              Exhibit F
 Proposed Zoning         CR
 Adjacent Zoning
     East                CR
     West                CO2
     North               N/A (Bangerter Highway)
     South               CO2 and CR

The Community/Neighborhood Commercial land use designation is a combination of two
land use designations; Neighborhood Commercial and Community Commercial. These are
characterized as follows:




Chick-Fil-A                                                        App. No. 2023-4605-MA
Zoning Map Amendment Request                  2
According to Draper City Municipal Code (DCMC) Section 9-8-020, the purpose of the CO zone
is to “provide locations primarily along arterial or major collector streets which will accommodate
offices or laboratories for professional persons and other related uses.” Specifically regarding the
CO2 zone, the DCMC states that its purpose is to “allow larger office and related uses adjacent to
commercial areas and away from residential areas.”

According to DCMC Section 9-8-020, the purpose of the CR zone is to “provide areas where a
combination of destination oriented business, retail commercial, entertainment, and related uses
may be established, maintained and protected to serve both residents and nonresidents of the
city.”

Zoning Map Amendment.

The applicant is requesting to rezone the approximately 0.803 acres on the western portion
of the lot from the CO2 zone to the CR zone. This rezone would allow for the proposed use
of a restaurant on the subject property. According to DCMC Section 9-8-020, the typical uses
of the CR zone include “large scale, master planned commercial centers with outlying commercial
pads, big box stores, and offices.” While this zoning designation isn’t consistent with the
compatible zoning listed in the General Plan for the land use designations identified above,



Chick-Fil-A                                                             App. No. 2023-4605-MA
Zoning Map Amendment Request                     3
the majority of the property is already zoned CR. Therefore, rezoning all of the subject
property to the CR zone would be consistent with the existing land use patterns and zoning
in the vicinity, including the neighboring shopping center to the east.

Criteria For Approval.

A Map Amendment is a matter committed to the legislative discretion of the City Council and
is not controlled by any one standard. However, in making a recommendation to the City
Council, the Planning Commission should consider the following factors in Section 9-5-060(E)
of the DCMC:

        1. Map Amendments:
            a. Whether the proposed amendment is consistent with goals, objectives and policies
               of the city's general plan;
            b. Whether the proposed amendment is harmonious with the overall character of
               existing development in the vicinity of the subject property;
            c. Whether the proposed amendment is consistent with the standards of any
               applicable overlay zone;
            d. The extent to which the proposed amendment may adversely affect adjacent
               property; and
            e. The adequacy of facilities and services intended to serve the subject property,
               including, but not limited to, roadways, parks and recreation facilities, police and
               fire protection, schools, stormwater drainage systems, water supplies, and
               wastewater and refuse collection.



REVIEWS

Planning Division Review. The Draper City Planning Division has completed their review of the
Zoning Map Amendment submission. Comments from this division, if any, can be found in
Exhibit A.

Engineering and Public Works Divisions Review. The Draper City Engineering and Public Works
Divisions have completed their reviews of the Zoning Map Amendment submission.
Comments from these divisions, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Building Division Review. The Draper City Building Division has completed their review of the
Zoning Map Amendment submission. Comments from this division, if any, can be found in
Exhibit A.

Fire Division Review. The Draper City Fire Marshal has completed his review of the Zoning Map
Amendment submission. Comments from this division, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.




Chick-Fil-A                                                            App. No. 2023-4605-MA
Zoning Map Amendment Request                     4
Legal Division Review. The Draper City Attorney has completed his review of the Zoning Map
Amendment submission. Comments from this division, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

GIS Division Review. The Draper City Geographic Information Systems Division has completed
their review of the Zoning Map Amendment submission. Comments from this division, if any,
can be found in Exhibit A.

Noticing. Notice has been properly issued in the manner outlined in the City and State Codes.



STAFF RECOMMENDATION

Staff recommends that the Planning Commission forward a positive recommendation on the
request based on the findings listed below and the criteria for approval, as listed within the
staff report. The Planning Commission should also review the request and receive public
comment prior to making a decision.

The findings for approval as are follows:

    1.      The proposed amendment is consistent with goals, objectives and policies of the
            city's general plan.
    2.      The proposed amendment is harmonious with the overall character of existing
            development in the vicinity of the subject property.
    3.      The proposed amendment is consistent with the standards of all applicable
            overlay zones.
    4.      The proposed amendment will not adversely affect adjacent property.
    5.      Facilities and services intended to serve the subject property are adequate,
            including, but not limited to, roadways, parks and recreation facilities, police and
            fire protection, schools, stormwater drainage systems, water supplies, and
            wastewater and refuse collection.

The findings for denial as are follows:

    1. The proposed amendment is not consistent with goals, objectives and policies of the
       city's general plan.
    2. The proposed amendment is not harmonious with the overall character of existing
       development in the vicinity of the subject property.
    3. The proposed amendment will adversely affect adjacent property.




Chick-Fil-A                                                          App. No. 2023-4605-MA
Zoning Map Amendment Request                    5
MODEL MOTIONS

Sample Motion for Approval – I move that we forward a positive recommendation to the City
Council for the Zoning Map Amendment, as requested by 4G Development and Consulting,
representing Kip Wadsworth and Wadsworth Bangerter Crossing, LLC for the Chick-Fil-A
Zoning Map Amendment, Application No. 2023-4605-MA, based on the findings and subject
to the conditions listed in the Staff Report dated January 19, 2024.

Sample Motion for Modified Approval– I move that we forward a positive recommendation
to the City Council for the Zoning Map Amendment, as requested by 4G Development and
Consulting, representing Kip Wadsworth and Wadsworth Bangerter Crossing, LLC for the
Chick-Fil-A Zoning Map Amendment, Application No. 2023-4605-MA, based on the findings
and subject to the conditions listed in the Staff Report dated January 19, 2024, and as
modified by the findings and conditions below:

        1. List any additional findings and conditions…

Sample Motion for Denial – I move that we forward a negative recommendation to the City
Council for the Zoning Map Amendment, as requested by 4G Development and Consulting,
representing Kip Wadsworth and Wadsworth Bangerter Crossing, LLC for the Chick-Fil-A
Zoning Map Amendment, Application No. 2023-4605-MA, based on the findings listed in the
Staff Report dated January 19, 2024.




Chick-Fil-A                                                     App. No. 2023-4605-MA
Zoning Map Amendment Request                  6
                                      EXHIBIT A
                                 DEPARTMENT REVIEWS

REVIEWS ARE NOT MEANT TO BE AN ALL INCLUSIVE LIST OF POSSIBLE COMMENTS OR
CONDITIONS.



Planning Division Review.

       1.     No additional comment.

Engineering and Public Works Divisions Review.

       1.     The change in zone from two existing commercial zones would place the lot
              within a single commercial zone. The CR has a wide range of uses permitted in
              the zone and depending on the proposed use, the traffic impacts from the
              zoning may not represent a significant increase in planned traffic by increasing
              the number of peak hour trips and the daily trips from the proposed site. Both
              of the existing zones have commercial and retail uses and is dependent on the
              site plan in order to determine the impact to traffic. Commercial traffic has
              been anticipated from the site and is expected when the site is developed. The
              size of the parcel does not trigger an automatic traffic impact study because it
              does not exceed the number of peak hour trips that typically would
              necessitate offsite mitigation measures, typically around 100 peak hour trips.
              Any increase in traffic would be onto Bangerter Highway, primarily based on
              access proximity, and additionally on 100 East and 13800 South.

       2.     Connectivity with the subject parcel to a public right-of-way is on both 100 East,
              a local commercial street, and Bangerter Highway, a state operated street
              through Utah Department of Transportation (UDOT). Access locations are
              existing and have been entitled through the existing surrounding
              development. No new access to the lot will be permitted.

       3.     There are existing storm drainage facilities at the subject parcel. Any future
              site drainage will be required to be addressed with any subdivision or site plan
              application, and shall comply with the provisions of the development
              requirements within the Draper City Municipal Code.

       4.     Sanitary sewer facilities will be provided by South Valley Sewer District. Any
              subdivision or site plan application will require a commitment to serve from
              the Sewer District that facilities are adequate to provide service for the
              proposed uses.
       5.      Drinking water is provided by WaterPro to the subject parcel. Any subdivision
               or site plan application will require a commitment to serve from WaterPro that
               facilities are adequate to provide service for the proposed uses.

Building Division Review.

       1.      No additional comment.

Fire Division Review.

       1.      No additional comment.

Legal Division Review.

       1.      No additional comment.

GIS Division Review.

       1.      No additional comment.
    EXHIBIT B
LEGAL DESCRIPTION
  EXHIBIT C
VICINITY MAP
 EXHIBIT D
AERIAL MAP
  EXHIBIT E
LAND USE MAP
 EXHIBIT F
ZONING MAP
