                                Development Review Committee
                                    1020 East Pioneer Road
                                      Draper, UT 84020
                                      September 25, 2024

To:             Draper City Planning Commission
                Business Date: October 10, 2024

From:           Development Review Committee

Prepared By: Todd Taylor, Planner III
             Planning Division
             Community Development Department
             801-576-6510, todd.taylor@draperutah.gov

Re:     City Initiated 2024 ADU Zoning Text Amendment Request
        Application No.: 2024-0279-TA
        Applicant:          Draper City
        Project Location: City Wide
        Current Zoning: City Wide
        Acreage:            City Wide
        Request:            Request for approval of a Zoning Text Amendment to Chapter 9-
                            31 of the Draper City Municipal Code (DCMC) in order to modify
                            standards for Accessory Dwelling Units (ADUs).



BACKGROUND AND SUMMARY

This application is a request for approval of a Zoning Text Amendment to modify the ADU
standards in Chapter 9-31 of the DCMC to allow for owner occupancy of either the single-
family dwelling or the ADU, and to reduce the minimum lot size required for approval of a
deviation from the geographical prohibitions for Internal Accessory Dwelling Units (I-ADUs).

In 2021, the City made amendments to DCMC Chapter 9-31 in response to changes made by
the State Legislature during the 2021 Legislative Session, with respect to House Bill (HB) 82
and the new I-ADU regulations added to Utah State Code Section 10-9a-530. The State
regulations set the minimum lot size for an I-ADU at 6,000 ft2. However, the regulations also
allowed for a municipality to prohibit I-ADUs in an identified area that was less than 25% of
the total area of the municipality zoned for residential use.



City Initiated 2024 ADU                                            App. No. 2024-0279-TA
Zoning Text Amendment Request                 1
On September 17, 2024, the City adopted a General Plan Amendment to replace an existing
strategy in the General Plan’s Moderate Income Housing Plan with Strategy E which calls for
the City to “create or allow for, and reduce regulations related to, internal or detached
accessory dwelling units in residential zones”.


ANALYSIS

When the City updated the DCMC to comply with the State’s new I-ADU regulations in 2021
Chapter 9-31 was amended to include standards for both detached accessory dwelling units
(D-ADUs) and I-ADUs. As part of the amendment, the City required that the primary dwelling
associated with an ADU be occupied by the owner of record as their primary residence.
Another part of that update added an exhibit to DCMC Section 9-31-090, also known as the
“I-ADU Prohibited Areas Map”, which prohibited I-ADUs in certain areas in the City. The Map
complies with the State’s I-ADU regulations. These I-ADU Prohibited Areas were determined
using characteristics of the property, including property size, roadway width, and potential
availability of on-street parking. To provide relief from the prohibition, a deviation process
was included in the ordinance update which allowed properties located in the I-ADU
Prohibited Areas to request an exception from the prohibition from the Planning
Commission when:

    1. The lot or parcel on which the primary dwelling is located is at least 20,000 ft²;
    2. No D-ADU exists on the property;
    3. The proposed I-ADU meets all of the requirements of DCMC Sections 9-31-030 and
       9-31-045, including other applicable requirements of this chapter; and
    4. At least two (2) parking stalls, meeting the requirements of DCMC Section 9-31-
       045(B)(2) are provided for use by occupants of the I-ADU.

During the 2023 State Legislative Session, Senate Bill (SB) 174 was passed, which restricted
the ability of the City to modify the I-ADU Prohibited Areas Map to include new area or
subdivisions, essentially rendering the adopted Map static.

At a Study Session with the City Council on June 4, 2024, staff presented concerns that, with
the changes to Utah State Code in 2023, older lots between 6,000 ft2 to 20,000 ft2 are now
treated differently than newer lots over 6,000 ft2 with respect to I-ADUs. City Council
members also expressed an interest in seeing that increased flexibility be provided to allow
for owner occupancy of either the single-family dwelling or the ADU. Staff was directed to
proceed with drafting and bringing forward proposed changes to the General Plan’s
Moderate Income Housing Plan, followed by the drafting and bringing forward of proposed
changes to DCMC Chapter 9-31 upon adoption of the updates to the Moderate Income
Housing Plan.




City Initiated 2024 ADU                                             App. No. 2024-0279-TA
Zoning Text Amendment Request                 2
The proposed text amendment keeps the I-ADU Prohibited Areas Map in place; however, the
lot size required for approval of a deviation from the geographical prohibitions would be
lowered from 20,000 ft2 to 6,000 ft2. By keeping the Map in place, the City will be able to
review applications for deviations for properties shown in the Map that are 6,000 ft2 and
above, and ensure that two (2) additional parking spaces for the I-ADU are provided.

Text Amendments. This portion of the report will review the modifications being proposed
to the DCMC by section. The legislative copy of the changes can be found in Exhibit B of this
report. Additions to the text are indicated in blue, deletions in red, and unchanged text in
black.

DCMC Section 9-31-030: General Regulations: The text in this section has been modified to
allow the property owner to occupy either the single-family dwelling or the ADU as their
primary residence, rather than only the primary dwelling. This provides flexibility to property
owners as life-changes occur, while still maintaining the presence of the homeowner on the
property and as a member of the neighborhood.

DCMC Section 9-31-040: D-ADU Development Standards: The text in this section has been
modified to refer to the primary dwelling as the single-family dwelling in order to be
consistent with the changes in the previous section and to provide clarity.

DCMC Section 9-31-055: Deviations: The text in this section has been modified to reduce the
lot size required for approval of a deviation for properties located in the I-ADU Prohibited
Areas Map by the Planning Commission. The lot size would be reduced from 20,000 ft2 to
6,000 ft2. I-ADUs would continue to remain prohibited for properties under 6,000 ft2 in the
City. This will allow the City to accept I-ADU applications, including deviation applications for
those properties located within the I-ADU Prohibited Areas Map, for properties that are 6,000
ft2 and above, while ensuring that adequate parking for each I-ADU is provided.



REVIEWS

Planning Division Review. The Draper City Planning Division has completed their review of
the Zoning Text Amendment submission. Comments from this division, if any, can be found
in Exhibit A.

Engineering and Public Works Divisions Review. The Draper City Engineering and Public
Works Divisions have completed their reviews of the Zoning Text Amendment submission.
Comments from these divisions, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Building Division Review. The Draper City Building Division has completed their review of
the Zoning Text Amendment submission. Comments from this division, if any, can be found
in Exhibit A.



City Initiated 2024 ADU                                               App. No. 2024-0279-TA
Zoning Text Amendment Request                   3
Fire Division Review. The Draper City Fire Marshal has completed his review of the Zoning
Text Amendment submission. Comments from this division, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Legal Division Review. The Draper City Attorney has completed his review of the Zoning Text
Amendment submission. Comments from this division, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Noticing. Notice has been properly issued in the manner outlined in the City and State Codes.


STAFF RECOMMENDATION

Staff recommends that the Planning Commission review the request, receive public
comment, and make a recommendation to the City Council based on the findings and the
criteria for approval, or denial, as listed within the staff report.



MODEL MOTIONS

Sample Motion for Approval – I move that we forward a positive recommendation to the City
Council for the Zoning Text Amendment, as requested by Draper City for the City Initiated
2024 ADU Zoning Text Amendments, Application No. 2024-0279-TA, based on the following
findings and subject to the criteria for approval listed in the Staff Report dated September
25, 2024.

Findings for Approval:

    1. The proposed amendment is consistent with goals, objectives and policies of the
       City's General Plan;
    2. The proposed amendment is appropriate given the context of the request and there
       is sufficient justification for a modification to the development codes;
    3. The proposed amendment will not create a conflict with any other section or part of
       the development codes or the General Plan;
    4. The potential effects of the proposed amendment have been evaluated and are
       determined not to be detrimental to public health, safety, or welfare and represents
       an overall community benefit; and
    5. The proposed text amendment implements best current, professional practices of
       urban planning, design, and engineering practices.

Sample Motion for Modified Approval – I move that we forward a positive recommendation
to the City Council for the Zoning Text Amendment, as requested by Draper City for the City
Initiated 2024 ADU Zoning Text Amendments, Application No. 2024-0279-TA, based on the




City Initiated 2024 ADU                                            App. No. 2024-0279-TA
Zoning Text Amendment Request                 4
findings and criteria for approval listed in the Staff Report dated September 25, 2024, and as
modified by the following additional recommended modifications or findings:

    1. List any additional recommended modifications…
    2. List any additional findings …

Sample Motion for Denial – I move that we forward a negative recommendation to the City
Council for the Zoning Text Amendment, as requested by Draper City for the City Initiated
2024 ADU Zoning Text Amendments, Application No. 2024-0279-TA, based on the following
findings and subject to the criteria for denial listed in the Staff Report dated September 25,
2024.

Findings for Denial:

    1. The proposed amendment is not consistent with goals, objectives and policies of the
       City's General Plan;
    2. The proposed amendment is not appropriate given the context of the request and
       there is not sufficient justification for a modification to the development codes;
    3. The proposed amendment could create a conflict with another section or part of the
       development codes or the General Plan; and
    4. The potential effects of the proposed amendment have been determined to be
       detrimental to public health, safety, or welfare or do not represent an overall
       community benefit.




City Initiated 2024 ADU                                             App. No. 2024-0279-TA
Zoning Text Amendment Request                 5
                                     EXHIBIT A
                                DEPARTMENT REVIEWS

REVIEWS ARE NOT MEANT TO BE AN ALL INCLUSIVE LIST OF POSSIBLE COMMENTS OR
CONDITIONS.



Planning Division Review.

   1. No additional comments received.

Engineering and Public Works Divisions Review.

   1. No additional comments received.

Building Division Review.

   1. No additional comments received.

Fire Division Review.

   1. No additional comments received.

Legal Division Review.

   1. No additional comments received.
                                         EXHIBIT B
                                     LEGISLATIVE DRAFT

9-31-030: GENERAL REGULATIONS:

…

I.   No ADU or The primary dwelling associated with an ADU shall may be occupied by the owner
     of record as their primary residence and shall not be separately rented, or offered for rent
     leased, hired or loaned unless. If the primary dwelling associated with the ADU ceases to be
     occupied by the owner of record, occupies either the dwelling or the ADU as their primary
     residence shall not be rented, leased, hired or loaned.

…

9-31-040: D-ADU DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS:

The development standards set forth in this section shall apply to each D-ADU:

A. Separate Structure: A D-ADU is a separate structure from the primary single-family dwelling
   contained on the same lot or parcel as the primary single-family dwelling.

…

     4. At least one additional parking stall above the minimum required for the primary single-
        family dwelling shall be provided on site and be reserved for exclusive use by occupants
        of the D-ADU. The parking stall(s) provided for use of the occupants of the D-ADU may not
        be located in tandem with parking stalls designed to serve the primary single-family
        dwelling and shall be accessible from the street by a driveway. Driveways must conform
        to all requirements of section 9-10-075 and other applicable requirements of this title.
        Parking stalls shall be constructed of concrete or asphalt and shall comply with the
        applicable requirements of sections 9-25-070 and 9-25-080.

     5. The total square footage of a D-ADU shall not exceed fifty percent (50%) of the primary
        single-family dwelling's total square footage not including the garage.

…

     7. The architectural design, color pallet, and materials of a D-ADU shall match those of the
        primary single-family dwelling unit.

…
9-31-055: DEVIATIONS:

A. Deviation Authorized: The Planning Commission may approve a A deviation from strict
   compliance with the geographical restrictions of prohibition of I-ADUs on properties located
   within the areas identified on the I-ADU map in Exhibit A of this chapter may be approved by
   the planning commission if all of the following criteria are met and the planning commission
   finds upon finding that:

    1. The lot or parcel on which the primary dwelling is located is at least six twenty-thousand
       square feet (620,000 ft²);

    2. No D-ADU exists on the property;

    3. The proposed I-ADU meets all of the requirements of sections 9-31-030 and 9-31-045,
       including other applicable requirements of this chapter; and

    4. At least two (2) parking stalls meeting the requirements of 9-31-045(B)(2) are provided for
       use by occupants of the I-ADU.

…
