MEMO
To: City Council
From: Todd Draper, AICP
Date: 2024-04-23
Re: Public Hearing: Ordinance #1610


Comments:


This application is a request for approval of a Text Amendment to amend landscaping exemptions
for storm water management areas, public facilities, private schools, and private parks from the
limitations on turf installation on slopes and areas less than eight feet in width. These exemptions
may conflict with the water conservation rules adopted by the Utah Department of Natural
Resources Division of Water Resources.




A comprehensive update to the landscaping ordinance found in Draper City Municipal Code (DCMC)
Chapter 9-23 was approved by the City Council on June 20, 2023. On July 11, 2023 the Utah
Department of Natural Resources Division of Water Resources adopted new rules regarding water
efficient landscaping incentives and water use efficiency standards including rule R653-11-10 setting
a Statewide limitation for new residential development that no lawn areas be less than eight feet in
width.



The Planning Commission forwarded a positive recommendation to the City Council regarding the
ordinance change at their meeting on March 28, 2024. Their vote was unanimous 5-0 in favor.

The findings for approval are as follows:
  1. The proposed amendment is consistent with goals, objectives and policies of the city's
     general plan;
  2. The proposed amendment furthers the specific purpose statements of the zoning ordinance;
  3. The proposed amendment is appropriate given the context of the request and there is
     sufficient justification for a modification to the zoning ordinance;
  4. The proposed amendment will not create a conflict with any other section or part of this title
     or the general plan;
  5. The potential effects of the proposed amendment have been evaluated and are determined
      not to be detrimental to public health, safety, or welfare and represent an overall community
      benefit; and
  6. The proposed text amendment implements best current, professional practices of urban
      planning, design, and engineering.
The findings for denial are as follows:
  1. The proposed amendment is not consistent with goals, objectives and policies of the city's
     general plan;
  2. The proposed amendment does not further the specific purpose statements of the zoning
     ordinance;
  3. The proposed amendment is not appropriate given the context of the request and there is
     not sufficient justification for a modification to the zoning ordinance;
  4. The proposed amendment could create a conflict with another section or part of this title or
      the general plan;
  5. The potential effects of the proposed amendment have been determined to be detrimental
     to public health, safety, or welfare or do not represent an overall community benefit; and
  6. The proposed text amendment is not consistent with current best practices of urban
      planning, design, and engineering.




ATTACHMENTS:

Ordinance #1610.pdf
ATTACHMENTS:

2024-0077-TA - PC Staff Report.pdf
