                                 Development Review Committee
                                      1020 East Pioneer Road
                                        Draper, UT 84020
                                                August 9, 2024

To:              Draper City Planning Commission
                 Business Date: August 22, 2024

From:            Development Review Committee

Prepared By: Nick Whittaker, MCMP, Planner II
             Planning Division
             Community Development Department
             801-576-6522, Nick.Whittaker@draperutah.gov

Re:     Neil & Lauri Summerhays Digging Corp. Home Occupation – Conditional Use
        Permit Request
        Application No.: 2024-0264-USE
        Applicant:        Neil Summerhays, representing Neil & Lauri Summerhays Digging
                          Corp.
        Project Location: 12038 S. 540 E.
        Current Zoning: RA1 (Residential/Agricultural, 40,000 ft² min. lot size)
        Acreage:          Approximately 0.90 acres (39,204 ft2)
        Request:          Request for approval of a Conditional Use Permit in the RA1 zone
                          to operate a home occupation that provides excavation services.


BACKGROUND AND SUMMARY

This application is a request for approval of a Conditional Use Permit for approximately
0.90 acres located on the west side of 540 East, at approximately 12038 S 540 E (Exhibits B
and C). The property is currently zoned RA1. The applicant is requesting that a Conditional
Use Permit be approved to allow for a home-occupation that provides excavation services.

The property is Lot 7 of Block 26 A of the Draperville plat. The 540 East in this location is a
private unpaved roadway connecting to the public right of way at 12100 S. The home on
the property was constructed in 1993. The property includes a detached garage that was
built in 1993.

ANALYSIS



Neil & Lauri Summerhays Digging Corp. Home Occupation                  App# 2024-0264-USE
Conditional Use Permit Request                          1
General Plan and Zoning.

 Table 1                   General Plan and Zoning Designations                        Exhibit
 Existing Land Use         Residential Low-Medium Density                              D
 Current Zoning            RA1                                                         E
 Proposed Use              Home occupation as a secondary use to SFD
 Adjacent Zoning           RA1
     East                  RA1, RA2 (Residential Agricultural, 20,000 ft² min. lot
                           size)
     West                  RA1
     North                 RA1
     South                 RA1

The Residential Low-Medium Density land use designation is characterized as follows:




Neil & Lauri Summerhays Digging Corp. Home Occupation                     App# 2024-0264-USE
Conditional Use Permit Request                          2
According to Draper City Municipal Code (DCMC) Section 9-8-020, the purpose of the RA1
zone is to, “foster low density development with little impact on its surroundings and municipal
services; to generally preserve the character of the city's semirural areas; and to promote and
preserve conditions favorable to large lot family life, including the keeping of limited numbers of
animals and fowl. The predominant use in these zones is intended to be detached single-family
dwellings, protected from encroachment by commercial and industrial uses.”

Site Plan Layout. The applicant has been in operation since 2014 out of an office in the
home and has provided an overview of the areas of the property they would like to use for
storage of businesses related equipment in a detached accessory structure (Exhibit F). The
detached accessory structure is located on the west of the property in the rear yard of the
home. As part of the conditional use application the applicant would like to store a mini-
excavator and flatbed trailer used for the business inside the detached accessory structure.

Parking. The applicant is seeking approval through this conditional use application to store
one (1) piece of equipment and one (1) trailer used in the business operations at the
property. The applicant has indicated that the detached accessory structure as indicated on
the attached plans found in exhibit F will be the location for storing these items. The
required minimum two (2) residential parking spaces will be maintained in the garage
attached to the house. The proposed storage of the equipment and trailer in the detached
accessory structure will not create any impacts with respect to parking requirements. A
work vehicle will also occasionally be on the property for towing the trailer and mini-
excavator. The applicant has stated that the work vehicle will be parked in the attached
garage when it is brought onto the property (Exhibit G).

Home Occupation. The DCMC Section 9-34-040 outlines development standards applicable
to all home occupations. Those criteria, along with information specific to the subject
request, are as follows:

        A. Ownership: The home occupation shall be owned and operated by a person who
           resides in the dwelling where the home occupation is located. Such person shall be
           the primary provider of the labor, work, or service provided in the home occupation.
           • The applicant is both the business owner and the property owner

        B. Business License: A business license for the home occupation shall be obtained from
           and continually maintained with the city pursuant to title 6, chapter 11 of this code.
           • The applicant will be required to maintain an active business license for as
              long as the business is in operation from the residence.
           • The applicant has a record of maintaining a business license for a home
              office only with Draper City since 2014 (Exhibit H).
           • The applicant currently has an application for a 2024 business license filed
              with the city but it is on hold pending the applicant obtaining a conditional
              use permit.



Neil & Lauri Summerhays Digging Corp. Home Occupation                    App# 2024-0264-USE
Conditional Use Permit Request                          3
        C. Employees: Members of the family of the owner who reside in the dwelling may be
           employed in the home occupation. Nonfamily or nonresident employees shall be
           limited to one person.
           • There are no additional employees (Exhibit G).

        D. Inspection: All facilities shall comply with fire, building, plumbing, electrical and all
           other city, county, state and federal codes. Inspections during reasonable hours by
           city officials may occur as necessary to assure compliance with regulations.
           • The applicant has maintained and renewed a home-based business license
                for Neil & Laurie Summerhays Digging Corp. with Draper City consecutively
                since 2014 and is aware of required inspections (Exhibit H).

        E. Inventory: No stock in trade, inventory, or other merchandise to exceed two hundred
           fifty (250) square feet shall be kept on the premises. No outside storage is allowed.
           • The applicant indicated that they do not keep any inventory at the subject
                property (Exhibit G

        F. Modification Of Structures Or Yards: There shall be no visible evidence from the
           exterior of a dwelling that it is being used for any other purpose than that of a
           dwelling. No activities shall be carried on outside the dwelling in the yard for the
           benefit of or incidental to the home occupation. No front yard area shall be altered to
           provide parking required for a home occupation.
           • The applicant is seeking approval to park a mini-excavator and a flatbed
               trailer within the detached accessory structure on the subject property.

        G. Nuisance: Tools, items, equipment, or activities conducted within the dwelling which is
           offensive or noxious by reason of the emission of odor, smoke, gas, vibration,
           magnetic interference, or noise shall be prohibited.
           • The applicant has indicated that the business use of the property will not
               create any of the above-listed nuisances (Exhibit G).

        H. Secondary Use: The home occupation shall be clearly incidental and secondary to the
           primary use of the dwelling for residential purposes. The home occupation shall not
           disrupt the normal residential character of the neighborhood in which the residence
           is located. Not more than twenty five percent (25%) of the dwelling unit shall be used
           for the home occupation.
           • The applicant has indicated compliance with this standard but initially did not
                provide any details. Subsequently the applicant provided that the office in
                the home is a 10 by 12 room or 120 ft² in size (Exhibit G). Per the Salt Lake
                County Assessor, the overall home is 3,098 ft² in size. The office space
                occupies only approximately 3.9% of the dwelling unit, well within the
                limitations of this standard.



Neil & Lauri Summerhays Digging Corp. Home Occupation                      App# 2024-0264-USE
Conditional Use Permit Request                          4
        I.   Signs: All signage in a residential area must comply with chapter26, "Signs", of this
             title.
             • There is no business signage on the property and none is proposed at this
                  time (Exhibit G).

        J.   Traffic, Parking, And Access: No home occupation use shall generate pedestrian,
             parking, or vehicular traffic in excess of that customarily associated with the zone in
             which the use is located. All parking shall be provided and maintained on site with
             adequate provision for drop off traffic.
             • The applicant does not have customers or employees come to the subject
                 property (Exhibit G).
             • The applicant is seeking approval to one mini-excavator and a flatbed trailer
                 stored at the property within an existing detached accessory structure
                 (Exhibits G & H).

        K. Vehicles: Other than the business owner's personal transportation, there shall be no
           vehicles or equipment on the property associated with the home occupation which
           would not normally be found at a residence. No signage for the home occupation
           shall be allowed on vehicles.
           • The applicant is seeking approval to park one (1) mini-excavator and one (1)
              flatbed equipment trailer at the property within an existing enclosed
              detached structure in the rear yard. The applicant will also occasionally have
              one business vehicle on the site to tow the trailer and mini-excavator. The
              applicant has stated that there is no business signage at the property (Exhibit
              G)

        L. Yards: Yards surrounding the dwelling and accessory buildings shall not be used for
           any activities or storage of any materials associated with the home occupation.
           • The applicant has indicated that they will use part of an existing detached
              accessory structure as storage for parking one (1) mini-excavator and a
              flatbed trailer (Exhibit G).

        M. Customers: No customers allowed. Children accessing a limited daycare or limited
           preschool facility shall not be considered customers.
           • The applicant does not have customers come to the subject property (Exhibit
              G).

        N. Utility Demand: The home occupation shall not cause a demand for public utilities in
           excess of that necessarily and customarily provided for residential uses.
           • The business use does not create a demand for public utilities in excess of
                that customarily provided for residential uses.




Neil & Lauri Summerhays Digging Corp. Home Occupation                     App# 2024-0264-USE
Conditional Use Permit Request                          5
        O. Main Structure: The home occupations shall be conducted, located, and contained
           within the primary structure on the property.
           • Aside from the area for parking the business vehicle the home occupation is
               located entirely within the primary structure (Exhibit G).

        P. Single-Family And Multiple-Family Dwellings: Home occupations listed as permitted or
           conditional within this title may be permitted in a single-family or a multiple-family
           dwelling, subject to the standards found within this section and section 9-34-060 of
           this chapter. Businesses within multiple-family dwellings shall provide an approval
           letter from the respective homeowners' association, or management company in the
           case of apartments, if the business proposes any employees, customers or business
           vehicles.
           • The business is not located within a multiple-family dwelling.

        Q. Licensure: Any home occupation involving childcare shall comply with all applicable
           state and local laws and regulations regarding residential childcare, including, but
           not limited to, provisions of the Utah child care licensing act, as set forth in Utah
           Code Annotated section 26-39-101 et seq., as amended, and the residential certificate
           childcare standards as set forth in the Utah administrative code section R430-50-1 et
           seq., as amended. In addition, cottage food production operations are regulated and
           inspected by the Utah department of agriculture. Any food related home occupation
           under their jurisdiction must comply with these regulations.
           • The business use does not involve child care or food production.

With the exception of the accounting, research, and ordering operations conducted within
the office within the home, all other business operations are conducted off-site at
construction sites. Staff has no additional concerns other than those identified above with
the business operations as stated by the applicant in their responses found in Exhibit G.
Potential negative impacts related to visual appearance of the equipment are mitigated
through storing them inside the enclosed accessory structure.

Criteria For Approval.
The criteria for review and potential approval of a home occupation conditional use permit
request is found in Section 9-5-080(E) of the DCMC. This section depicts the standard of
review for such requests as:

        E. Approval Standards: The standards of this subsection shall apply to the issuance of a
            conditional use permit:
         1. A conditional use permit may be issued for a use to be located within a zone where
            the particular conditional use is allowed by the use regulations of the zone.
         2. Reasonable conditions may be imposed as necessary to substantially mitigate
            reasonably anticipated detrimental effects of the proposed use. These conditions may
            include conditions concerning use, construction, character, location, landscaping,



Neil & Lauri Summerhays Digging Corp. Home Occupation                  App# 2024-0264-USE
Conditional Use Permit Request                          6
             screening, parking, hours of operation, and other matters relating to the purposes
             and objectives of this section. Such conditions shall be expressly set forth in the
             motion authorizing the conditional use permit.
          3. If the reasonably anticipated detrimental effects of a proposed conditional use
             cannot be substantially mitigated by the imposition of reasonable conditions to
             achieve compliance with applicable standards, the conditional use may be denied.
          4. The following factors shall be reviewed and considered in determining whether a
             conditional use permit application should be approved, approved with conditions, or
             denied because reasonable conditions cannot be imposed to achieve compliance with
             applicable standards:
               a. The harmony and compliance of the proposed use with the objectives and
                   requirements of the city's general plan and this title;
               b. The suitability of the specific property for the proposed use;
               c. Whether the proposed use or facility may be injurious to potential or existing
                   development in the vicinity;
               d. The economic impact of the proposed facility or use on the surrounding area;
               e. The aesthetic impact of the proposed facility or use on the surrounding area;
               f. The safeguards proposed or provided to ensure adequate utilities, transportation
                   access, drainage, parking, loading space, lighting, screening, landscaping, open
                   space, fire protection, and pedestrian and vehicular circulation;
               g. The safeguards provided or proposed to prevent noxious or offensive emissions
                   such as noise, glare, dust, pollutants and odor from the proposed facility or use;
                   and
               h. The impact of the proposed facility or use on the health, safety, and welfare of the
                   city, the area, and persons owning or leasing property in the area.
          5. The planning commission may request additional information as may be reasonably
             needed to determine whether the requirements of this subsection E can be met.



REVIEWS

Planning Division Review. The Draper City Planning Division has completed their review of
the Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit submission. Comments from this division, if
any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Engineering and Public Works Divisions Review. The Draper City Engineering and Public
Works Divisions have completed their reviews of the Home Occupation Conditional Use
Permit submission. Comments from these divisions, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Building Division Review. The Draper City Building Division has completed their review of the
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit submission. Comments from this division, if any,
can be found in Exhibit A.




Neil & Lauri Summerhays Digging Corp. Home Occupation                      App# 2024-0264-USE
Conditional Use Permit Request                          7
Fire Division Review. The Draper City Fire Marshal has completed his review of the Home
Occupation Conditional Use Permit Submission. Comments from this division, if any, can
be found in Exhibit A.

Noticing. Notice has been properly issued in the manner outlined in the City and State
Codes.



STAFF RECOMMENDATION
Staff recommends that the Planning Commission review the request based on the findings
listed below and the criteria for approval, or denial as listed within the staff report. The
Planning Commission should also review the request, hear from the applicant, and receive
public comment prior to making a decision.



If the Planning Commission decides to approve the request, staff recommends they include
the following conditions of approval:

        1.       That all requirements of the Draper City Engineering, Public Works, Building,
                 Planning, and Fire Divisions shall be satisfied prior to issuance of a business
                 license or its renewal.
        2.       Only one (1) mini-excavator, and one (1) flatbed trailer shall be allowed on
                 the subject property. The mini-excavator and the flatbed trailer shall be
                 stored inside the detached accessory structure, and may not be stored or
                 parked in other areas of the property, or on the street.
        3.       That one (1) business vehicle utilized by the business for towing the flatbed
                 trailer and mini-excavator may also be brought to and parked at the
                 property, but it must be parked on the existing paved driveway.



MODEL MOTIONS AND FINDINGS

Sample Motion for Approval – I move that we approve the Home Occupation Conditional
Use Permit, as requested by Neil Summerhays, representing Neil & Lauri Summerhays
Digging Corp. application 2024-0264-USE, based on the following findings for approval and
subject to the conditions listed in the Staff Report dated August 9, 2024.

Findings for approval:

        1. The proposal complies with the standards for approval found in DCMC Section 9-
           5-080(E) and potential negative impacts are mitigated through the imposition of
           reasonable conditions.




Neil & Lauri Summerhays Digging Corp. Home Occupation                   App# 2024-0264-USE
Conditional Use Permit Request                          8
I move that we approve the Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit, as requested by Neil
Summerhays, representing Neil & Lauri Summerhays Digging Corp. application 2024-0264-
USE, based on the listed findings for approval and subject to the conditions listed in the
Staff Report dated August 9, 2024 and as modified by the following additional findings or
conditions:

        1. List any additional findings…
        2. List any additional conditions…



Sample Motion for Denial – I move that we deny the Home Occupation Conditional Use
Permit, as requested by Neil Summerhays, representing Neil & Lauri Summerhays Digging
Corp. application 2024-0264-USE, based on the following findings for denial listed in the
Staff Report dated August 9, 2024.

Findings for denial:

        1. The proposal complies with the standards for approval found in DCMC Section 9-
           5-080(E) and potential negative impacts are mitigated through the imposition of
           reasonable conditions.




Neil & Lauri Summerhays Digging Corp. Home Occupation             App# 2024-0264-USE
Conditional Use Permit Request                          9
                                      EXHIBIT A
                                 DEPARTMENT REVIEWS

REVIEWS ARE NOT MEANT TO BE AN ALL INCLUSIVE LIST OF POSSIBLE COMMENTS OR
CONDITIONS.



Planning Division Review.

       1.      No additional comments.

Engineering and Public Works Divisions Review.

       1. No additional comments

Building Division Review.

       1.      No additional comments.

Fire Division Review.

       1.      No additional comments.
  EXHIBIT B
VICINITY MAP
 EXHIBIT C
AERIAL MAP
  EXHIBIT D
LAND USE MAP
 EXHIBIT E
ZONING MAP
   EXHIBIT F
SCHEMATIC PLANS
             EXHIBIT G
APPLICANT STATEMENTS AND RESPONSES
Statement of Compliance with Standards

The development standards set forth in this section shall apply to any home occupation
allowed as a permitted use:
A. Ownership: The home occupation shall be owned and operated by a person who
resides in the dwelling where the home occupation is located. Such person shall be the
primary provider of the labor, work, or service provided in the home occupation.
          •   The applicant lives at the subject property
B. Business License: A business license for the home occupation shall be obtained
from and continually maintained with the city pursuant to title 6, chapter 11 of this code.
          •   Business has existed since 2014 and have
C. Employees: Members of the family of the owner who reside in the dwelling may be
employed in the home occupation. Nonfamily or nonresident employees shall be limited
to one person.
          •   There are no additional employees
D. Inspection: All facilities shall comply with fire, building, plumbing, electrical and all
other city, county, state and federal codes. Inspections during reasonable hours by city
officials may occur as necessary to assure compliance with regulations.
          •   All required inspections will be completed as required
E. Inventory: No stock in trade, inventory, or other merchandise to exceed two hundred
fifty (250) square feet shall be kept on the premises. No outside storage is allowed.
(Ord. 909, 7-21-2009)
          •   No inventory is kept on the premises
F. Modification Of Structures Or Yards: There shall be no visible evidence from the
exterior of a dwelling that it is being used for any other purpose than that of a dwelling.
No activities shall be carried on outside the dwelling in the yard for the benefit of or
incidental to the home occupation. No front yard area shall be altered to provide parking
required for a home occupation. (Ord. 1132, 2-17-2015)
          •   This will be followed
G. Nuisance: Tools, items, equipment, or activities conducted within the dwelling which
is offensive or noxious by reason of the emission of odor, smoke, gas, vibration,
magnetic interference, or noise shall be prohibited.
          •   This will be followed
H. Secondary Use: The home occupation shall be clearly incidental and secondary to
the primary use of the dwelling for residential purposes. The home occupation shall not
disrupt the normal residential character of the neighborhood in which the residence is
located. Not more than twenty five percent (25%) of the dwelling unit shall be used for
the home occupation.
          •   This will be followed.
I. Signs: All signage in a residential area must comply with chapter 26, "Signs", of this
title.
          •   There will be no signs
J. Traffic, Parking, And Access: No home occupation use shall generate pedestrian,
parking, or vehicular traffic in excess of that customarily associated with the zone in
which the use is located. All parking shall be provided and maintained on site with
adequate provision for drop off traffic.
          •   No customers or employees at the property
K. Vehicles: Other than the business owner's personal transportation, there shall be no
vehicles or equipment on the property associated with the home occupation which
would not normally be found at a residence. No signage for the home occupation shall
be allowed on vehicles.
          •   There will be one work vehicle occasionally parked at the home. It will be
              parked in a dedicated stall in an existing detached garage
L. Yards: Yards surrounding the dwelling and accessory buildings shall not be used for
any activities or storage of any materials associated with the home occupation.
          •   This will be followed
M. Customers: No customers allowed. Children accessing a limited daycare or limited
preschool facility shall not be considered customers.
          •   No childcare is being offered
N. Utility Demand: The home occupation shall not cause a demand for public utilities in
excess of that necessarily and customarily provided for residential uses.
          •   This will not require an excess of public utilities
O. Main Structure: The home occupations shall be conducted, located, and contained
within the primary structure on the property. (Ord. 909, 7-21-2009)
          •   This will be followed
P. Single-Family And Multiple-Family Dwellings: Home occupations listed as permitted
or conditional within this title may be permitted in a single-family or a multiple-family
dwelling, subject to the standards found within this section and section 9-34-060 of this
chapter. Businesses within multiple-family dwellings shall provide an approval letter
from the respective homeowners' association, or management company in the case of
apartments, if the business proposes any employees, customers or business vehicles.
(Ord. 1132, 2-17-2015)
          •   The business is in one dwelling only
Q. Licensure: Any home occupation involving childcare shall comply with all applicable
state and local laws and regulations regarding residential childcare, including, but not
limited to, provisions of the Utah child care licensing act, as set forth in Utah Code
Annotated section 26-39-101 et seq., as amended, and the residential certificate
childcare standards as set forth in the Utah administrative code section R430-50-1 et
seq., as amended. In addition, cottage food production operations are regulated and
inspected by the Utah department of agriculture. Any food related home occupation
under their jurisdiction must comply with these regulations. (Ord. 909, 7-21-2009)
          •   There will be no childcare
     EXHIBIT H
Supporting Documents
