MEMO
To: City Council
From: Jennifer Jastremsky, AICP
Date: 2024-06-04
Re: Discussion: Accessory Dwelling Units - Jennifer Jastremsky


Comments:


Staff has been looking at possible changes to the City’s Accessory Dwelling Unit (ADU)
code in response to two issues: 1) the number of rentals in the alley loaded
neighborhood of South Mountain and 2) the recent changes to Utah State Law. Staff
would like to go over the various options with the Council and get some feedback as to
direction before proceeding with the text amendment process.



Since the City adopted the ADU code in 2021, 69 ADU permits have been issued and 3
deviations have been approved Citywide.



South Mountain:

The first issue area covers the alley loaded neighborhood in South Mountain. Staff has
prepared a possible text amendment, attached as document South Mountain D-ADU
Amendment for Workshop. The concern with this neighborhood is the number of rental
units that may occur in detached garages and basements. The detached garages with
units above (Detached-ADU, D-ADU) were built as part of the original development. The
municipal code in place at that time did not allow for those units to be rented out
separately from the home. That said, they have historically been rented out. Separate
dwelling units within the home (Internal-ADU, I-ADU), including basement apartments,
have never been allowed in the neighborhood.



The ADU code limits D-ADU’s on properties with at least 12,000 square feet in area
Citywide. This neighborhood contains lots ranging in size from 10,485 square feet to
5,524 square feet. The average lot size is 7,027 square feet. Staff is recommending a text
amendment that would allow for the originally constructed D-ADU’s to be rented out and
an ADU permit to be issued for those properties, if the property is owner occupied. The
attached document outlines a proposed text amendment that creates an exception to the
12,000 square foot lot size for this neighborhood in regards to D-ADU’s.



Staff reviewed the potential to allow for the I-ADU’s in the neighborhood and to allow D-
ADUs without requiring owner occupancy. In regards to the I-ADU’s, staff does not believe
allowing an I-ADU to remain if a property has a D-ADU already on site is wise given the
parking implications. Parking is sparce in this neighborhood and parking problems have
been a constant issue in this area. This neighborhood is currently on the I-ADU prohibited
areas map. As far as owner occupancy changes, staff believes that allowing D-ADU’s
without owner occupancy in this neighborhood would create an equity issue with the rest
of the City. All I-ADU’s and D-ADU’s currently require owner occupancy throughout the
City.



State Law Changes- I-ADU Prohibited Areas Map:

When the City adopted the ADU code in September 2021, it included an I-ADU Prohibited
Areas Map, linked here. Under State Law the City could prohibit I-ADU’s within up to 25%
of the residentially zoned areas. The final map prohibits I-ADUs within 15.8% of the
residentially zoned areas. Properties on the map are lots that don’t meet the minimum
size standard for an I-ADU of 6,000 square feet and lots that are on streets that are
narrower than the City’s standard. The ADU code does allow for residents to apply for a
deviation to allow for an I-ADU if they have at least 20,000 square feet in lot size and can
provide one additional parking space.



The Utah Legislature passed SB174 in 2023 which restricts the prohibited areas map from
being revised to include any lot recorded after 10/1/2021. This makes this map static and
does not allow the City to add newly created lots to the map that meet the same criteria
as those properties already on the map. Staff is concerned that this creates an equity
issue where there may be a scenario where two similar lots in regards to size, parking,
street configuration and width would be treated differently, with the newer lot qualifying
for an I-ADU while the older one would not.



Staff has reviewed potential options to address the equity concern. The attached
document, I-ADU Options Summary, outlines the four options identified. These options are
1) make no changes, 2) reduce the allowance for deviations down to 12,000 square foot
lots, 3) reduce the allowance for deviations down to 6,000 square foot lots, or 4) eliminate
the map and deviation process entirely.
These options represent a spectrum ranging from the City’s current ADU code to the
State Code’s minimum requirements. Based upon Council feedback, staff can explore one
or more of these options further.




ATTACHMENTS:

South Mountain D-ADU Amendment for Workshop.pdf
ATTACHMENTS:

I-ADU Options Summary.pdf
