                                  Development Review Committee
                                      1020 East Pioneer Road
                                        Draper, UT 84020
                                            November 11, 2024

To:              Draper City Planning Commission
                 Business Date: November 14, 2024

From:            Development Review Committee

Prepared By: Nick Whittaker, MCMP, Planner II
             Planning Division
             Community Development Department
             801-576-6522, Nick.Whittaker@draperutah.gov

Re:     Effervescent Life LLC. – Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit Request
        Application No.: 2024-0331-USE
        Applicant:         Joy Martin, representing Effervescent Life LLC.
        Project Location: 2529 E. Springtime Rd.
        Current Zoning: RM (Multiple Dwelling Residential) Zone
        Acreage:           0.23 Acres (Approximately 10,018 ft2)
        Request:           Request for approval of a Conditional Use Permit to operate a
                           Home Occupation that provides personal care services for stress
                           management.



BACKGROUND AND SUMMARY

This application is a request for approval of a Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit for
approximately 0.23 acres located on the north side of Springtime Rd. at approximately
2259 E. Springtime Rd. (Exhibit C). The property is currently zoned RM. The applicant is
requesting that a Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit be approved to allow for a
Home Occupation that provides personal care services for stress management.

The property is Lot 510 of the Hidden Canyon Estates Phase 10 subdivision. The single-
family dwelling on the property was built in 2022. The business is operated from a
designated room located in the dwelling (Exhibits G, H & I).

ANALYSIS




Effervescent Life LLC.                                               App. # 2024-0331-USE
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit Request      1
General Plan and Zoning.

 Table 1                   General Plan and Zoning Designations                  Exhibit
 Existing Land Use         Residential Medium Density                            Exhibit E
 Current Zoning            RM                                                    Exhibit F
 Proposed Use              Personal Care Service
 Adjacent Zoning
    East                   RM
    West                   RM
    North                  OS (Open Space)
    South                  RM

The Residential Medium Density land use designation is characterized as follows:




According to the 1999 Draper City Municipal Code (DCMC) Section 9-8-020 the purpose of
the RM zone is to “provide areas for low-to-medium residential density of up to twelve (12)
units per acre for medium to high density residential unit projects subject to conditional-



Effervescent Life LLC.                                                App. # 2024-0331-USE
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit Request   2
use permit procedures and conditions for this type of use and based on minimum
development guidelines adopted by the City.”


Home Occupation. The DCMC Section 9-34-040 outlines development standards applicable
to all home occupations. Those criteria, along with information specific to the subject
request, are as follows:

        A. Ownership: The home occupation shall be owned and operated by a person who
             resides in the dwelling where the home occupation is located. Such person shall
             be the primary provider of the labor, work, or service provided in the home
             occupation.

        B. Business License: A business license for the home occupation shall be obtained
             from and continually maintained with the city pursuant to title 6, chapter 11 of
             this code.

        C. Employees: Members of the family of the owner who reside in the dwelling may
             be employed in the home occupation. Nonfamily or nonresident employees
             shall be limited to one person.

        D. Inspection: All facilities shall comply with fire, building, plumbing, electrical and all
             other city, county, state and federal codes. Inspections during reasonable hours
             by city officials may occur as necessary to assure compliance with regulations.

        E. Inventory: No stock in trade, inventory, or other merchandise to exceed two
             hundred fifty (250) square feet shall be kept on the premises. No outside storage
             is allowed.

        F. Modification Of Structures Or Yards: There shall be no visible evidence from the
             exterior of a dwelling that it is being used for any other purpose than that of a
             dwelling. No activities shall be carried on outside the dwelling in the yard for the
             benefit of or incidental to the home occupation. No front yard area shall be
             altered to provide parking required for a home occupation.

        G. Nuisance: Tools, items, equipment, or activities conducted within the dwelling
             which is offensive or noxious by reason of the emission of odor, smoke, gas,
             vibration, magnetic interference, or noise shall be prohibited.

        H. Secondary Use: The home occupation shall be clearly incidental and secondary to
             the primary use of the dwelling for residential purposes. The home occupation
             shall not disrupt the normal residential character of the neighborhood in which




Effervescent Life LLC.                                                     App. # 2024-0331-USE
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit Request   3
             the residence is located. Not more than twenty five percent (25%) of the dwelling
             unit shall be used for the home occupation.

        I. Signs: All signage in a residential area must comply with chapter 26, "Signs", of this
             title.

        J. Traffic, Parking, And Access: No home occupation use shall generate pedestrian,
             parking, or vehicular traffic in excess of that customarily associated with the
             zone in which the use is located. All parking shall be provided and maintained on
             site with adequate provision for drop off traffic.

        K. Vehicles: Other than the business owner's personal transportation, there shall be
             no vehicles or equipment on the property associated with the home occupation
             which would not normally be found at a residence. No signage for the home
             occupation shall be allowed on vehicles.

        L. Yards: Yards surrounding the dwelling and accessory buildings shall not be used
             for any activities or storage of any materials associated with the home
             occupation.

        M. Customers: No customers allowed. Children accessing a limited daycare or
           limited preschool facility shall not be considered customers.

        N. Utility Demand: The home occupation shall not cause a demand for public
             utilities in excess of that necessarily and customarily provided for residential
             uses.

        O. Main Structure: The home occupations shall be conducted, located, and
           contained within the primary structure on the property.

        P. Single-Family And Multiple-Family Dwellings: Home occupations listed as
             permitted or conditional within this title may be permitted in a single-family or a
             multiple-family dwelling, subject to the standards found within this section and
             section 9-34-060 of this chapter. Businesses within multiple-family dwellings
             shall provide an approval letter from the respective homeowners' association, or
             management company in the case of apartments, if the business proposes any
             employees, customers or business vehicles.

        Q. Licensure: Any home occupation involving childcare shall comply with all
             applicable state and local laws and regulations regarding residential childcare,
             including, but not limited to, provisions of the Utah child care licensing act, as set
             forth in Utah Code Annotated section 26-39-101 et seq., as amended, and the
             residential certificate childcare standards as set forth in the Utah administrative



Effervescent Life LLC.                                                     App. # 2024-0331-USE
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit Request   4
             code section R430-50-1 et seq., as amended. In addition, cottage food
             production operations are regulated and inspected by the Utah department of
             agriculture. Any food related home occupation under their jurisdiction must
             comply with these regulations.


Staff has reviewed the applicant’s statements (Exhibit H) alongside the Home Occupation
development standards found in the DCMC section 9-34-040. Staff comments and analysis
is as follows:

In regards to DCMC 9-34-040(A), the applicant has indicated that they - Joy Martin - own
and operate Effervescent Life, LLC. and are also the home owner of the subject property.

In regards to DCMC 9-34-040(B), Effervescent Life, LLC. has submitted an application (app #
HOCC-1346-2024) for a business license which is pending approval of the Home
Occupation Conditional Use Permit.

In regards to DCMC 9-34-040(C), the applicant has indicated that they are the only
employee of the business and that there is no one else employed in the home occupation.

In regards to DCMC 9-34-040(D), the applicant has indicated that they will comply with
applicable regulations of fire, building, plumbing, electrical and all other city, county, state
and federal codes.

In regards to DCMC 9-34-040(E), the applicant has indicated that they do not have any
inventory, stock or merchandise exceeding two hundred fifty (250) square feet on the
premises and do not have any outside storage.

In regards to DCMC 9-34-040(F), no modifications of the structure or yard have been or will
be made for the business nor will any activities be carried out on the outside of the
dwelling other than the use of a parking stall in front of the third car garage used to
provide parking for customers Staff notes that the property owner has expanded the width
of the driveway greater than the maximum permitted width of thirty feet (30’) as described
in the DCMC, subsection 9-10-075(A). Staff recommends as a condition of approval for the
Conditional Use Permit that the ordinance violation be corrected and the driveway be
brought back into compliance with maximum width standards of ordinance within six (6)
months. The applicant has included an illustration of how they intend to bring the driveway
back into compliance (Exhibit I).

In regards to DCMC 9-34-040(G), the applicant has indicated that the business will not
create any of the prohibited nuisances listed in ordinance.

In regards to DCMC 9-34-040(H), The space used for the home occupation is comprised of



Effervescent Life LLC.                                                    App. # 2024-0331-USE
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit Request   5
the main level entryway foyer which is accessed by the front door which faces the south
side of the property. The services are provided in a room that is accessed at the east side of
the entryway foyer, a business-related closet space is accessed at the west side of the
entryway foyer and a restroom that is available for customer use is accessed at the west
side of the entry way foyer. The applicant indicates that the home occupation will be
secondary to the residential use of the home and that is does not occupy more than 25% of
the dwelling unit (Exhibits F, G & H). Staff has verified that the size of the single-family
home is approximately 3556 ft2 and the space used for the home occupation is 460 ft2 in
size. The approximate percentage of the home used to operate the home occupation is
13%.

In regards to DCMC 9-34-040(I), a separate sign permit application (SIGN-1164-2024) has
been submitted to staff for review, pending approval of a Home Occupation Conditional
Use Permit. The proposed sign measures eighteen inches (18”) by twenty inches (20”) and
will be staked into the ground against the cement base of the front porch.

In regards to DCMC 9-34-040(J), As described in Exhibit H, the applicant proposed to
mitigate pedestrian and vehicular traffic by allowing only one customer to be at the
property at a time. To receive services, the customer must schedule their appointment
online and in advance. Customer appointments are scheduled with a thirty (30) minute
buffer between each appointment to prevent appointment overlap and ensure that only
one (1) customer is at the property at a time. One (1) off street parking stall is provided for
the use of customers coming to the home for their scheduled appointment as illustrated in
Exhibits G & H.

In regards to DCMC 9-34-040(K), the applicant has indicated that there are no vehicles or
equipment associated with the home occupation.

In regards to DCMC 9-34-040(L), the applicant has indicated that the yard will not be used
for any business activities nor storage.

In regards to DCMC 9-34-040(M), the applicant is requesting a deviation from this standard
in order to allow customers to come to the home to receive services. Staff recognizes that
having customers come to the property could create potential negative impacts. The
applicant has proposed mitigating these negative impacts by doing the following:

       1. Requiring customers to schedule appointments in advance.
       2. Allowing only one customer at a time at the property.
       3. Providing a thirty (30) minute lead time between appointments to ensure that
          there is no customer overlap.
       4. Providing one (1) off street parking stall in front of the third car garage to be used
          by customers at the time of their scheduled appointment.
       5. Setting hours of operation as 8:00 am to 5:00 pm, Monday through Saturday with



Effervescent Life LLC.                                                   App. # 2024-0331-USE
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit Request   6
            extended evening hours of 5:00 pm to 9:00 pm available only on Tuesdays.

In regards to DCMC 9-34-040(N), the applicant has indicated that the home occupation will
not cause an excessive demand for public utilities above that necessarily and customarily
provided for residential uses.

In regards to DCMC 9-34-040(O), the home occupation is conducted within the primary
structure. The applicant has provided floor plans (Exhibit G) showing the location of the
business within the primary dwelling. The space used for the home occupation is
comprised of the main level entryway foyer which is accessed by the front door which faces
the south side of the property. The services are provided in a room that is accessed at the
east side of the entryway foyer, a business-related closet space is accessed at the west side
of the entryway foyer and a restroom that is available for customer use is accessed at the
west side of the entry way foyer.

In regards to DCMC 9-34-040(P), the business is located in an owner-occupied single-family
dwelling. Additional HOA or management company approval is not required.

In regards to DCMC 9-34-040(Q), the home occupation does not provide childcare nor is it
related to food production.



Criteria For Approval.
The criteria for review and potential approval of a home occupation conditional use permit
request are found in Section 9-5-080(E) of the DCMC. This section depicts the standard of
review for such requests as:

        E. Approval Standards: The standards of this subsection shall apply to the issuance
            of a conditional use permit:
         1. A conditional use permit may be issued for a use to be located within a zone
            where the particular conditional use is allowed by the use regulations of the
            zone.
         2. Reasonable conditions may be imposed as necessary to substantially mitigate
            reasonably anticipated detrimental effects of the proposed use. These
            conditions may include conditions concerning use, construction, character,
            location, landscaping, screening, parking, hours of operation, and other matters
            relating to the purposes and objectives of this section. Such conditions shall be
            expressly set forth in the motion authorizing the conditional use permit.
         3. If the reasonably anticipated detrimental effects of a proposed conditional use
            cannot be substantially mitigated by the imposition of reasonable conditions to
            achieve compliance with applicable standards, the conditional use may be
            denied.




Effervescent Life LLC.                                                 App. # 2024-0331-USE
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit Request   7
          4. The following factors shall be reviewed and considered in determining whether a
             conditional use permit application should be approved, approved with
             conditions, or denied because reasonable conditions cannot be imposed to
             achieve compliance with applicable standards:
              a. The harmony and compliance of the proposed use with the objectives and
                 requirements of the city's general plan and this title;
              b. The suitability of the specific property for the proposed use;
              c. Whether the proposed use or facility may be injurious to potential or existing
                 development in the vicinity;
              d. The economic impact of the proposed facility or use on the surrounding
                 area;
              e. The aesthetic impact of the proposed facility or use on the surrounding area;
              f. The safeguards proposed or provided to ensure adequate utilities,
                 transportation access, drainage, parking, loading space, lighting, screening,
                 landscaping, open space, fire protection, and pedestrian and vehicular
                 circulation;
              g. The safeguards provided or proposed to prevent noxious or offensive
                 emissions such as noise, glare, dust, pollutants and odor from the proposed
                 facility or use; and
              h. The impact of the proposed facility or use on the health, safety, and welfare
                 of the city, the area, and persons owning or leasing property in the area.
          5. The planning commission may request additional information as may be
             reasonably needed to determine whether the requirements of this subsection E
             can be met.

Staff believes that the potential detrimental effects related to parking, traffic, customers
coming to the home and hours of operation can be mitigated by the applicant’s proposed
mitigation measures and has incorporated them into the suggested conditions for
approval.



REVIEWS

Planning Division Review. The Draper City Planning Division has completed their review of
the Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit Request submission. Comments from this
division, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Engineering and Public Works Divisions Review. The Draper City Engineering and Public
Works Divisions have completed their reviews of the Home Occupation Conditional Use
Permit Request submission. Comments from these divisions, if any, can be found in Exhibit
A.

Building Division Review. The Draper City Building Division has completed their review of



Effervescent Life LLC.                                                  App. # 2024-0331-USE
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit Request   8
the Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit Request submission. Comments from this
division, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Fire Division Review. The Draper City Fire Marshal has completed his review of the Home
Occupation Conditional Use Permit Request submission. Comments from this division, if
any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Noticing. Notice has been properly issued in the manner outlined in the City and State
Codes.



STAFF RECOMMENDATION

Staff recommends that the Planning Commission review the request based on the findings
listed below and the criteria for approval, or denial as listed within the staff report. The
Planning Commission should also review the request, hear from the applicant, and receive
public comment prior to making a decision.

If the Planning Commission decides to approve the request, staff recommends they include
the following conditions of approval:

         1.      That all requirements of the Draper City Engineering, Public Works, Building,
                 Planning, and Fire Divisions are satisfied.
         2.      That a Draper City business license shall be obtained and maintained by the
                 business owner for as long as the business remains in operation.
         3.      That the property owner brings the driveway into compliance with the
                 maximum width requirements of the city ordinance within six (6) months
                 from the date of the Planning Commission approval of the Home Occupation
                 Conditional Use Permit.
         4.      That only one (1) customer at a time shall receive services at the subject
                 property.
         5.      That all customer appointments shall be scheduled in advance and that
                 unscheduled walk-in customers shall not be permitted.
         6.      Appointments shall be scheduled so as to provide at least a thirty (30) minute
                 break or lead time between customers.
         7.      That one (1) off-street parking stall shall be provided for the customers of the
                 business in the location shown on the approved site and parking plan.
         8.      That the hours of operation be limited to between 8:00 am to 5:00 pm,
                 Monday through Saturday with extended evening hours of 5:00 pm to 9:00
                 pm on Tuesdays.
         9.      That any business signage located on the subject property shall be in
                 compliance with sign standards found in the DCMC and shall be properly
                 permitted prior to placement on the property.



Effervescent Life LLC.                                                   App. # 2024-0331-USE
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit Request   9
MODEL MOTIONS AND FINDINGS

Sample Motion for Approval – I move that we approve the Home Occupation Conditional
Use Permit, as requested by Joy Martin, representing Effervescent Life, LLC. application
2024-0331-USE, based on the following findings for approval and subject to the conditions
listed in the Staff Report dated November 21, 2024.

Findings for approval:

        1. The proposal complies with the standards for approval found in DCMC Section 9-
           5-080(E) and potential negative impacts are mitigated through the imposition of
           reasonable conditions.

I move that we approve the Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit, as requested by Joy
Martin, representing Effervescent Life, LLC. application 2024-0331-USE, based on the
following findings for approval and subject to the conditions listed in the Staff Report dated
November 21, 2024 and as modified by the following additional findings or conditions:

        1. List any additional findings…
        2. List any additional conditions…

Sample Motion for Denial – I move that we deny the Home Occupation Conditional Use
Permit, as requested by Joy Martin, representing Effervescent Life, LLC. application 2024-
0331-USE, based on the following findings and the criteria for denial as listed in the Staff
Report dated November 21, 2024.

Findings for denial:

        1. The proposal does not comply with all standards for approval found in DCMC
           Section 9-5-080(E) and potential negative impacts are not able to be sufficiently
           mitigated through the imposition of reasonable conditions.




Effervescent Life LLC.                                                 App. # 2024-0331-USE
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit Request   10
                                     EXHIBIT A
                                DEPARTMENT REVIEWS

REVIEWS ARE NOT MEANT TO BE AN ALL INCLUSIVE LIST OF POSSIBLE COMMENTS OR
CONDITIONS.



Planning Division Review.

       1.     No additional comments.

Engineering and Public Works Divisions Review.

       1.     No additional comments.

Building Division Review.

       1.     No additional Comments.

Fire Division Review.

       1.     No additional comments.
  EXHIBIT B
VICINITY MAP
 EXHIBIT C
AERIAL MAP
  EXHIBIT D
LAND USE MAP
 EXHIBIT E
ZONING MAP
EXHIBIT F
SITE PLAN
                                fippettdrx C;
                                           r
       ?




       ,4
       :;i



                                               fr
                                               rE
                                                                                      ->z
                                                                                        I
                                                    T                                  I
                                                                                       J


      q*x*                         il!*#
                                                                   i.
                                                                        l

 *Hiffir      ffi                {Bsffie


                                                                                (,,
                                                                                a
                                                                                o
                                                                                n
                                                                                       o
                                                                                J

                                                                                "{
                                                                                       E,
                                                                                J
                                                                                6'
                                                                                       =
                                                                                o      tr
                                                                                o
                                                                                       $
                                                                                       5
s*s*6*.      ffi    iFffi6*{*




                                                               \




                                                        ,r.t


                                                                            i
                                                                     diy N
DocuSign Envelope lD: 27805E64-5A82-4D0E-BF7    1 -20FD3E81F 457


                                                                   nDrawn       Natallia V                                        6.15.2020

                                                                                                I




     ww                                                  lkout Foun
                                                         73.19'
                                                                                                         Site Visit Notes:
                                                                                                               QPq$e LqJt
                                 r-
                                 LSB




    1lt Dzt4
                 x
    4'WIcl€-
    sP[.cLM                                                                                               sJ
                                                                                                          ,O
                            so
    ffoYrt- o/              (o
                            q
   senuw
   fuffilts
    q'6 - o8o and                                                                                                  Water meter
                                               Natalie
    4'b4'ot*o
                                         3-Car IVIOD
                                                                                                                   needs to be
     Conditovtaf t'tsc                                                                                             relocated to
                                                                                                                   fit 3rd car
                                                                                                                   garage
                                                                      -1    c
                                                                                             R=325'00'
                                                   54.52'                                     (39.02')

                                        (

                                                     a


                                       Sp rln stime Road                                                              \
                                                                                                                      L.
                                                             '"Joy t4a
                                                                      Lot 51 0
                                                      Hidden Canyon Estates Plat V
                                                       2523 East Springtime Road                               SITE PLAN
                                                              Draper, Utah                                                SCALE: 1" = 20'
                                                           10,045 Square Feet
   Note: All site information is preliminary and subject to verification.
           Location of home may vary depending on utility locations and/or 3rd car garage.                     $rneEhomes
 EXHIBIT G
FLOOR PLAN
                                   ftpryct ix ts
{




                                                                                                       ;pd'saurlpa; 0 f ga3H ulyel l




                                                                                                                \,4:
                                                                                                              -)o
                                                                                                                    -a
                                                                                                                     +J



                                           -*"t
                                                  i




               ,
               I
               I
         :st

                   'at
                   nt
                     t
                     I
                     i
                     t
                     t             .. ,:
         .,t                                                                              tft
                              i:                                                        *d,l-*
                                                                                    -.j1ff-'

                              t.:


                                                                                                 l.'




                                                                          I

                                                                         ::11
                                                                         i!i'
                                                                         ,
                         t^
                                            l
                                            ,b




                                                                                                                           ]()
                                                                                                                            b

rso-tf                                                '*1a1eit-u** r,&or.j $r iliall]nicp $riJ-L
      EXHIBIT H
APPLICANT STATEMENTS
9-34-040: Development Standards; Permitted Use:
  A. Yes, I do own the home. Affidavit has been signed and submitted
  B. Yes, I am trying to obtain a business license for a home occupation and agree to maintain it once
       it is approved
  C. I am the only employee
  D. I have followed the instructions set forth in the regular business application and have signed and
       submitted that form.
   E. I do not have any inventory, stock or merchandise exceeding two hundred fifty (250) square feet
       on the premises nor do I have any in outside storage
   t. No modifications of the structure or yard have been or will be made for the business nor will any
     activities be carried out on the outside of the dwelling.
  G. There are no nuisances that are part of the business.
  H. This home occupation will be secondary to the primary use of the home and does not occupy
     more than 25% of the dwelling unit. See Appendix B.
  l. All signs will comply, and a sign permit application has been submitted.
  J. No Parking or pedestrian traffic will be out of the ordinary for Zone RM and would look no
     different than if I was having friends come to visit one at a time. All parking is provided on site in
     the 4-space driveway.
  K. There are no vehicles or equipment on the property that are associated with the home
      occupation. No vehicles have signage on them.
   L. The yard will not be used for any business activities nor storage.
   M. VARIANCE NEEDED FOR CUSTOMERS
   N. The home occupation shall not cause a demand for public utilities more than that necessarily
       and customarily provided for residential uses.
   O. This home occupation is not childcare nor is it food related.
9-5-080: Conditional Use Permits
D.


       1.

               a. Joy Martin, 2529 E Springtime Rd, Draper UT 84020, 801.903.9123 (no agent).
               b. 2529 E Springtime Rd, Draper UT 84020
               c. Zoned RM, residential
               d. The proposed conditional use is for allowance of customer to come to the home
                   business. These are appointments for one individual at a time. Each appointment
                   will have a 3O-minute lead time so not more than one person at a time is
                   anticipated. Customer will park in driveway in front of the 3'd car garage and will not
                   cause any negative traffic impact to the neighborhood as there will be no need to for
                   street parking.
               e. See appendix A, B, C and D
               f. See d. above
               g, See subsection E. below
               h. Yes, the variance will be to allow customers to come to the home business
               i. I will submit further information or documentation as the zoning administrator
                   deems necessary.
       2. Yes, it is subsequently being filed with this application
E


        L. Zone RM does allow for a home business
       2. The use of this business is a personal care service for stress management. These therapies
are quiet in nature and will not impact the neighborhood with noise. The house of operation are
anticipatedtobe8a.m.-4p.m.W-F;5p.m.-9p.m.onTuesdayandL0a.mto3p.m.onSaturdays.
These hours are well within the Draper City noise ordinance 7-6-02A. Nothing about the landscaping of
the house will change for the purposes of the business and remain aesthetically commensurate to the
other homes in the neighborhood.
9-5-080: Conditional Use Permits
D.
      1.
           a. Joy Martin, 2529 E Springtime Rd, Draper, UT 84020, 801.903.9123 (no agent).
           b. 2529 E Springfime Rd, Draper, UT 84020
           c. Zoned RM, residential
           d. The proposed conditional use is for allowance of customers to come to the home
               business. These are appointments for one individual at a time. Each appointment will
               have a 3O-minute lead time so not more than one person at a time is anticipated. Even if
               the next customer comes early, there are four parking places in the driveway. This is
               plenty of room that customers will not need to park on the street and will not cause any
               negative traffic impact to the neighborhood.
           e. See Appendix A, B and C
           f. (see d. above)
           g. See Subsection E. below
           h. Yes, the variance will be to allow customers to come to the home business
           i.E
      2. Yes, it is subsequently being filed with this application.
E

      1. Zone RM does allow for a home business
      2. The use of this business is a personal care service for stress management. These therapies
           are quiet in nature and will not impact the neighborhood outside with noise. The hours of
           operation are anticipated to be Ba.m.-4:30p.m. W-F, 5p.m.-9p.m. on Tuesday, and LOa.m. -
           3p.m. Saturday. Even though noise inside the business will not affect the outside
           neighborhood, neither will a customer arriving in their car or leaving, as these hours are well
           within the Draper City noise ordinance 7-6-A20. Nothing about the landscaping of the house
           will change for the purposes of the business and remain aesthetically commensurate to the
           other homes in the neighborhood.
1114124,4:00 PM
                                    5 It        f{Fg@"rire@hotmair-com-ourook




                                                    I
                                                    i



                                                    I




                                                                            5
                                                                            I2




                       Fltl- *taY\ I s &n l8 in Y l?in
                               U
                               Srff, Lqwsled           as
                        \nd                   loca-hon

                            Shown




httpsJ/outlook.live.comimailiO/id/AQQkADAwATY0MDABLTQwN2MtNWNiAGYtMDACLTAwCgAQAHFIpT5xqETBu4WZ2kMgI6o%3D/sxs/AQMkADAw...   1t1
                    EXHIBIT I
PROPOSED DRIVEWAY MODIFICATION FOR CODE COMPLIANCE
                                                                                                                                       I



1114124,3:38 PM




                                                                                   '{




                        Pryy\diafiarwol ariruof l,Ut ll bL
                       a- \Utt.foal fur]rttn ouclt;*n and $tu
                       i^ 0 ws^ q-bor,q ,tl'Lq-/' will b-( ren4o'x-/'




https://outlook.live.com/mail/0/inboxlid/AQQkADAwATYOIt/DABLTQwN2MtNWNiAGYtMDACLTAwCsAQAHJdVZ0bd06kIWI   XIMySASs%3Dlsxs/AQMk... 111
