                                 Development Review Committee
                                     1020 East Pioneer Road
                                        Draper, UT 84020
                                         August 30, 2024

To:               Draper City Planning Commission
                  Business Date: September 12, 2024

From:             Development Review Committee

Prepared By: Nick Whittaker, MCMP, Planner II
             Planning Division
             Community Development Department
             801-576-6522, Nick.Whittaker@draperutah.gov

Re:      Southwick Fence – Conditional Use Permit Request
         Application No.: 2024-0290-USE
         Applicant:        Robin Aguirre, representing 12844 South Fayview Series of the
                           DNS Legacy Series LLC.
         Project Location: 12884 S. Fayview Ln.
         Current Zoning: RA2 (Residential Agricultural, 20,000 ft² lot minimum) Zone
         Acreage:          Approximately 0.49 Acres (21,344 ft2)
         Request:          Request for approval of a Conditional Use Permit in the RA2 zone
                           to allow for a nine foot (9’) tall fence along the south property line.

BACKGROUND AND SUMMARY

This application is a request for approval of a Conditional Use Permit for approximately 0.49
acres located on the west side of Fayview Ln. at approximately 12884 S. Fayview Ln. (Exhibit
B & C). The property is currently zoned RA2. The applicant is requesting that a Conditional
Use Permit be approved to allow a nine foot (9’) tall fence in the rear of the property along
the south property line.

The property is lot number 17 of the Rivermark Subdivision. The home located on the lot was
built in 2020. The property is owned by the 12844 South Fayview Series of the DNS Legacy
Series LLC. David and Natalie Southwick are both listed as Managers of the LLC.




Southwick Fence                                                       App. No. 2024-0290-USE
Conditional Use Permit Request                   1
ANALYSIS

General Plan and Zoning.

 Table 1                    General Plan and Zoning Designations                       Exhibit
 Existing Land Use          Residential Low-Medium Density                             Exhibit D
 Current Zoning             RA2                                                        Exhibit E
 Existing Use               Single Family Residential
 Adjacent Zoning
     East                   RA2
     West                   RA1 (Residential Agricultural, 40,000 ft² lot minimum)
     North                  RA2
     South                  RA2

The Residential Low-Medium Density land use designation is characterized as follows:




Southwick Fence                                                         App. No. 2024-0290-USE
Conditional Use Permit Request                     2
According to Draper City Municipal Code (DCMC) Section 9-8-020: “The purpose of the RA1
and RA2 zones is to foster low density development with little impact on its surroundings
and municipal services; to generally preserve the character of the city's semirural areas; and
to promote and preserve conditions favorable to large lot family life, including the keeping
of limited numbers of animals and fowl. The predominant use in these zones is intended to
be detached single-family dwellings, protected from encroachment by commercial and
industrial uses.”

Fencing.
Table 2 - Fencing and Design Requirements
 Standard       DCMC           Proposal            Notes
                Requirements
 Height
    Front       4’ maximum     None                There is no existing or proposed
                                                   fencing in the front yard
     Rear           6’ maximum   6’                An existing 6’ fence runs along the rear
                                                   property line
     North          6’ maximum   6’                An existing 6’ fence runs along the
     Side                                          north side yard beginning at the rear
                                                   fence and ending at the start of the
                                                   front yard plane.
     South          6’ maximum   Build a 3’        An existing 6’ fence runs along the
     Side                        cement            south side beginning at the rear fence
                                 retaining wall    and ending at the start of the front
                                 and place the     yard plane.
                                 existing 6’
                                 fence on top
                                 totaling 9’ in
                                 height.



The south side of the applicant’s property has an abrupt change in grade along the south
property line. The change in grade is approximately 3’ lower than the existing grade next to
the home which causes the current fence to sit at a lower elevation than the fencing next to
the home on the north (Exhibit H). The applicant has requested to change the grade and
build a 3’ cement retaining wall along the south side of the property and construct a new 6’
fence on top of the retaining wall to create a fence totaling 9’ in height along the south side
of the property. The 9’ tall wall and fence combination would begin at the rear yard fence
and end at the front yard plane and be approximately 125’ in length (Exhibits F & G).
According to DCMC 9-27-080(A), a conditional use permit is required for a wall or fence over
6’ in height. The applicant is requesting the proposed fence for privacy and security as the
change in grade reduces the amount of screening provided by the fence by as much as 3’.




Southwick Fence                                                     App. No. 2024-0290-USE
Conditional Use Permit Request                3
Criteria For Approval.

The criteria for review and potential approval of a conditional use permit request are found
in Section 9-5-080(E) of the DCMC. This section depicts the standard of review for such
requests as:

    E. Approval Standards: The standards of this subsection shall apply to the issuance of a
       conditional use permit:
       1. A conditional use permit may be issued for a use to be located within a zone where
          the particular conditional use is allowed by the use regulations of the zone.
       2. Reasonable conditions may be imposed as necessary to substantially mitigate
          reasonably anticipated detrimental effects of the proposed use. These conditions
          may include conditions concerning use, construction, character, location,
          landscaping, screening, parking, hours of operation, and other matters relating to
          the purposes and objectives of this section. Such conditions shall be expressly set
          forth in the motion authorizing the conditional use permit.
       3. If the reasonably anticipated detrimental effects of a proposed conditional use
          cannot be substantially mitigated by the imposition of reasonable conditions to
          achieve compliance with applicable standards, the conditional use may be denied.
       4. The following factors shall be reviewed and considered in determining whether a
          conditional use permit application should be approved, approved with conditions,
          or denied because reasonable conditions cannot be imposed to achieve
          compliance with applicable standards:
          a. The harmony and compliance of the proposed use with the objectives and
              requirements of the city's general plan and this title;
          b. The suitability of the specific property for the proposed use;
          c. Whether the proposed use or facility may be injurious to potential or existing
              development in the vicinity;
          d. The economic impact of the proposed facility or use on the surrounding area;
          e. The aesthetic impact of the proposed facility or use on the surrounding area;
          f. The safeguards proposed or provided to ensure adequate utilities,
              transportation access, drainage, parking, loading space, lighting, screening,
              landscaping, open space, fire protection, and pedestrian and vehicular
              circulation;
          g. The safeguards provided or proposed to prevent noxious or offensive
              emissions such as noise, glare, dust, pollutants and odor from the proposed
              facility or use; and
          h. The impact of the proposed facility or use on the health, safety, and welfare of
              the city, the area, and persons owning or leasing property in the area.
       5. The planning commission may request additional information as may be
          reasonably needed to determine whether the requirements of this subsection E
          can be met.



Southwick Fence                                                    App. No. 2024-0290-USE
Conditional Use Permit Request                4
The applicant has provided answers regarding how they intend to meet the conditional use
criteria listed in Section 9-5-080(E) of the DCMC which can be found in Exhibit G. The
applicant states in that the proposed conditional use would comply with the general plan by
creating an unsurpassed quality of life and would not create any detrimental effects to the
neighborhood. Accordingly, the applicant did not propose any mitigating conditions for
consideration by the Planning Commission. Staff has reviewed the responses from the
applicant and notes that while a taller fence could create a negative aesthetic impact to
adjoining properties, the adjoining property to the south is currently utilized as farmland.
For clarity, staff has included as a suggested condition in the recommendations section of
this report a condition limiting the 9’ fencing to the area along the south as shown on the
site plan.



REVIEWS

Planning Division Review. The Draper City Planning Division has completed their review of
the Conditional Use Permit submission. Comments from this division, if any, can be found in
Exhibit A.

Engineering and Public Works Divisions Review. The Draper City Engineering and Public
Works Divisions have completed their reviews of the Conditional Use Permit submission.
Comments from these divisions, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Building Division Review. The Draper City Building Division has completed their review of the
Conditional Use Permit submission. Comments from this division, if any, can be found in
Exhibit A.

Fire Division Review. The Draper City Fire Marshal has completed his review of the
Conditional Use Permit submission. Comments from this division, if any, can be found in
Exhibit A.

Noticing. Notice has been properly issued in the manner outlined in the City and State Codes.


STAFF RECOMMENDATION

Staff recommends that the Planning Commission review the request, receive public
comment, and approve the Conditional Use Permit based on the findings for approval as
listed below and the criteria for approval as listed within this staff report.

If the Planning Commission decides to approve the request, staff recommends they include
the following conditions of approval:



Southwick Fence                                                   App. No. 2024-0290-USE
Conditional Use Permit Request                5
    1. That all requirements of the Draper City Engineering, Building and Planning Divisions
       are satisfied throughout the development of the fence, including permitting.
    2. That the nine foot (9’) tall portion of the fence be constructed in the location shown
       on the submitted site plan, and all other fencing behind the front wall plane of the
       home remain at no higher than six feet (6’).



MODEL MOTIONS AND FINDINGS

Sample Motion for Approval – I move that we approve the Conditional Use Permit, as
requested by Robin Aguirre, Application No. 2024-0290-USE, based on the findings below
and subject to the conditions listed in the staff report dated August 30, 2024.

Findings for approval:

    1. Reasonable mitigation measures are placed on the conditional use to alleviate
       anticipated detrimental effects.

Sample Motion for Modified Approval – I move that we approve the Conditional Use Permit,
as requested by Robin Aguirre, Application No. 2024-0290-USE, based on the findings below
and subject to the conditions listed in the staff report dated August 30, 2024., including the
following additional findings or conditions:

Findings for approval:

    1. Reasonable mitigation measures are placed on the conditional use to alleviate
       anticipated detrimental effects.
    2. List any additional findings…

Additional Conditions:

    1. List any additional conditions…

Sample Motion for Denial – I move that we deny the Conditional Use Permit, as requested
by Robin Aguirre, Application No. 2024-0290-USE, based on the following findings:

Findings for denial:

    1. Reasonable mitigation measures are not able to be placed on the conditional use to
       sufficiently alleviate anticipated detrimental effects.




Southwick Fence                                                    App. No. 2024-0290-USE
Conditional Use Permit Request                6
                                      EXHIBIT A
                                 DEPARTMENT REVIEWS

REVIEWS ARE NOT MEANT TO BE AN ALL-INCLUSIVE LIST OF POSSIBLE COMMENTS OR
CONDITIONS.



Planning Division Review.

       1. The proposed location for the fence abuts a large field which minimizes visual
          and aesthetic impacts and is not visible from the neighborhood sidewalk and
          street.

Engineering and Public Works Divisions Review.

       1.     Fence height does not impact public ROW, drainage, or utilities.

Building Division Review.

       1.     No additional comments provided.

Fire Division Review.

       1.     No additional comments provided.
  EXHIBIT B
VICINITY MAP
 EXHIBIT C
AERIAL MAP
  EXHIBIT D
LAND USE MAP
 EXHIBIT E
ZONING MAP
 EXHIBIT F
SITE PLANS
       EXHIBIT G
APPLICANT’S SUBMITTALS
  EXHIBIT H
SITE PHOTOS
