MEMO
To: City Council
From: Nick Whittaker
Date: 2024-12-03
Re: Public Hearing: Ordinance #1628


Comments:

This application is a request for approval of a Zoning Map Amendment for approximately
0.52 acres located on the west side of 700 E. at approximately 12240 S. 700 E. The
property is currently zoned RA1 (Residential Agricultural, 40,000 ft² min. lot size). The
applicant is requesting that a Zoning Map Amendment be approved to change the
current zoning designation of RA1 to CC (Community Commercial).

The Planning Commission unanimously made a positive recommendation for approval of
the Zoning Map Amendment at the November 21, 2024 Planning Commission meeting on
a 5-0 vote.

Findings for Approval:
  1. The proposed zoning map amendment is consistent with goals, objectives, and
     policies of the city's general plan.
  2. The proposed zoning map amendment is harmonious with the overall character of
     existing development in the vicinity of the subject property.
  3. The proposed zoning map amendment will not adversely affect adjacent property.
  4. There are adequate facilities and services intended to serve the subject property,
     including, but not limited to, roadways, parks and recreation facilities, police and fire
     protection, schools, stormwater drainage systems, water supplies, and wastewater
     and refuse collection.

Findings for Denial:
  1. The proposed zoning map amendment is not consistent with goals, objectives, and
     policies of the city's general plan.
  2. The proposed zoning map amendment is not harmonious with the overall character
     of existing development in the vicinity of the subject property.
  3. The proposed zoning map amendment will adversely affect adjacent property.
  4. There are not adequate facilities and services intended to serve the subject
     property, including, but not limited to, roadways, parks and recreation facilities,
     police and fire protection, schools, stormwater drainage systems, water supplies,
     and wastewater and refuse collection.
ATTACHMENTS:

Ordinance 1628 The Break 2024-0216-MA Rezone .pdf
ATTACHMENTS:

The break staff Report 2024-0216-MA.pdf
