MEMO
To: Planning Commission
From: Jennifer Jastremsky, AICP
Date: 2024-05-23
Re: Action Item: Living Planet Aquarium Science Learning Center Plat Amendment
Approval Extension (Administrative Action)


Comments:


On May 11, 2023, the Planning Commission granted approval of a plat amendment application for
the Living Planet Aquarium Science Learning Center, located at approximately 12047 S Lone Peak
Parkway. The application number is SUBD-045-2023. Draper City Municipal Code (DCMC) Section
17-9-070 states the following regarding plat amendment extensions:



If the plat amendment is not recorded within one (1) year from the date of approval or construction of
the required landscaping and infrastructure has not commenced, such approval shall be null and void.
This time period may be extended by the Planning Commission for up to one additional six (6) month
period for good cause shown. The subdivider must petition in writing for an extension prior to the
expiration of the original one (1) year.



The plat amendment adjusts property lines around the aquarium buildings. The applicant also
obtained a site plan for the property to build the Science Learning Center. While a land disturbance
permit has been issued for the site plan, there are no improvements or permits that need to be
issued in regards to the plat amendment as it simply adjusts property lines.




The applicant is currently in the process of obtaining signatures on the mylar. The process has been
delayed as they have worked to modify the plat to meet individual utility company requirements. All
conditions of approval from the May 11, 2023 approval have been addressed. A copy of the staff
report is provided for convenience. Also attached is the request letter from the applicant. The
request letter was received on May 7, 2024, prior to the expiration.



If approved, the plat amendment approval will be valid through November 11, 2024.
Sample Motion for Approval – I move that we approve the plat amendment extension, as requested
by Jake Lake, representing Loveland Living Planet Aquarium for Living Planet Aquarium Science
Learning Center, application SUBD-045-2023, based on the finding below and the request by the
applicant:




  1. That the applicant has shown good cause to obtain an extension and that substantial action
     has occurred towards recording the subdivision plat.



Sample Motion for Denial – I move that we deny plat amendment extension, as requested by Jake
Lake, representing Loveland Living Planet Aquarium for Living Planet Aquarium Science Learning
Center, application SUBD-045-2023, based on the finding below and the request by the applicant:




  1. That the applicant has not shown good cause to obtain an extension and that substantial
     action has not occurred towards recording the subdivision plat.



ATTACHMENTS:

Approval Extension Request 5-7-24.pdf
ATTACHMENTS:

Aquarium Plat Amend PC Staff Report -5-11-23 Combined.pdf
