                                 Development Review Committee
                                         1020 East Pioneer Road
                                           Draper, UT 84020
                                             April 15, 2024

To:              Draper City Planning Commission
                 Business Date: April 25, 2024

From:            Development Review Committee

Prepared By: Todd Draper, Planning Manager
             Planning Division
             Community Development Department
             801-576-6335, todd.draper@draperutah.gov

Re:     Raining Hot Coupons, LLC - Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit Request
        Application No.: 2023-4587-USE
        Applicant:        Sarah Gibbons
        Project Location: 1935 E. Stag Hill Circle
        Current Zoning: RA2 (Single Family 20,000 sq. ft. minimum lot size)
        Acreage:          0.46 Acres (Approximately 20,038 square feet)
        Request:          Request for approval of a Home Occupation in the RA2 zone for a
                          limited assembly and repair home occupation.

BACKGROUND AND SUMMARY
This application is a request for approval of a Home Occupation for approximately 0.46
acres located at approximately 1935 E. Stag Hill Circle (Exhibit B & C). The property is zoned
RA2. The applicants are requesting that a Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit be
approved to allow for a limited assembly and repair home-based business with online sales
and up to three (3) non-residential, non- family employees.

The property is part of the Hunter Ridge at Draper Subdivision, and the home was built in
2005. This home-based business application was originally filed in June of 2023 as the
result of City code enforcement actions, where the applicant was cited for operating
without a business license. Resolution of the citation regarding the lack of a business
license is currently pending in a separate court case. The business is operating outside of
the permitted use standards for home occupations and may not receive a business license
without first obtaining a conditional use permit.

This application was first presented to the Planning Commission on February 8, 2024, and




Raining Hot Coupons, LLC                                          App. # 2023-4587-USE
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit             1
was continued to the March 14, 2024 meeting. At the March 14, 2024 Planning Commission
meeting the application was again continued to the April 25th meeting after the public
hearing was concluded. The applicant was given both time extensions for the purpose of
allowing them additional opportunities to submit accurate scaled and dimensioned plans,
and to propose measures for the mitigation of negative impacts to the neighborhood
regarding current non-compliance with required residential parking, fire code, and home
occupation standards. The applicants were emailed a list of the additional documentation
needed for re-submission repeatedly and they did provide additional documentation that
has been reviewed and included in this report. The applicants have met with the Fire
Marshall and reportedly have resolved the immediate fire hazard concerns identified at
prior Planning Commission meetings.

General Plan and Zoning.

 Table 1                   General Plan and Zoning Designations                       Exhibit
 Existing Land Use         Residential Low-Medium Density                             Exhibit D
 Current Zoning            RA2                                                        Exhibit E
 Proposed Use
 Adjacent Zoning
     East                  RA2
     West                  RA2
     North                 RA2
     South                 RA2

The Residential Low-Medium Density land use designation is characterized as follows:




Raining Hot Coupons, LLC                                       App. # 2023-4587-USE
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit          2
According DCMC Section 9-8-020 the purpose of the RA2 zone is to “foster low density
development with little impact on its surroundings and municipal services; to generally preserve
the character of the city's semirural areas; and to promote and preserve conditions favorable to
large lot family life, including the keeping of limited numbers of animals and fowl. The
predominant use in these zones is intended to be detached single-family dwellings, protected
from encroachment by commercial and industrial uses.”

This business was previously located in an approximately 10,000 square feet section of a
commercial warehouse building located in an industrial park. Although smaller in scale,
and more heavily reliant on the use of drop shipping, the overall scale and size of the
business remain more industrially scaled and conflicts with the purpose of the RA2 zone.




Raining Hot Coupons, LLC                                         App. # 2023-4587-USE
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit          3
Home Occupation.
According to DCMC Section 9-5-080, an application for a conditional use permit for a home
occupation is required at minimum to submit the following:
   a. The name, address and telephone number of the applicant and the applicant's agent, if
       any.
   b. The address and parcel identification of the subject property.
   c. The zone, zone boundaries and present use of the subject property.
   d. A complete description of the proposed conditional use.
   e. A plot plan showing the following:
       (1) Applicant's name;
       (2) Site address;
       (3) Property boundaries and dimensions;
       (4) Layout of existing and proposed buildings, parking, landscaping, and utilities; and
       (5) Adjoining property lines and uses within one hundred feet (100') of the subject
           property.
   f. Traffic impact analysis, if required by the city engineer or the planning commission.
   g. A statement by the applicant demonstrating how the conditional use permit request
       meets the approval standards of subsection E of this section.
   h. A statement indicating whether the applicant will require a variance in connection with
       the proposed conditional use.
   i. Such other and further information or documentation as the zoning administrator may
       deem necessary for a full and proper consideration and disposition of a particular
       application.

Furthermore the application checklist requests from the applicant a statement by the
applicant demonstrating how the home occupation conditional use permit request meets
the standards of DCMC 9-5-080(E), and a separate written narrative describing the nature
of the home occupation conditional use including information about the proposed use
(describing the proposed use, including information such as required parking, hours of
operation, expected patrons and/or employees, proposed site improvements, etc.). Also,
the statements were to include details of reasonably anticipated detrimental effects to
adjacent properties and the neighborhood (such as traffic or noise), and any mitigation
measures being proposed to alleviate those effects.

The initial documentation provided by the applicant up to the first Planning Commission
Hearing remains as part of this report as exhibits F, G, and H. Staff and the Planning
Commission both requested additional information from the applicants at that time. Staff
then received the additional drawings, photos, and statements included as exhibits J, K, L
and M. Upon the second continuance of the item by the Planning Commission the
applicant provided the most recent revised responses and documentation regarding the
above listed submittal requirements that are included as exhibits N, O, and P.




Raining Hot Coupons, LLC                                        App. # 2023-4587-USE
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit         4
With the revised statements, the applicant has only identified one anticipated detrimental
effect as the traffic from two (2) non-resident employees coming to the residence. The
applicant proposes that the additional traffic has been mitigated by providing two
employee parking spaces as indicated on exhibit O.

The applicant is requesting permission to continued running their business from the home
as a home-based limited assembly and repair business. Under Draper City Municipal Code
(DCMC) 9-34-050 this type of business requires a conditional use approval to operate. The
business repackages bulk and wholesale shipments of clothing and other articles they
receive into individual packages for retail sale and shipment to online customers. The
definition of a limited assembly and repair business is found in DCMC 9-3-040 and reads as
follows:

        ASSEMLBY AND REPAIR, LIMITED: A business where products are processed, fabricated,
        assembled, repaired, or packaged within the home. Typical uses may include computer
        assembly or repair, small appliance repair, packaging, wholesale, or fabrication of items.
        Assembly, fabrication, and repair is intended to be small-scale in nature where items are
        produced one at a time in small quantities or on a made-to-order basis, and does not
        include mass production of goods. Products brought to or from the home shall be small
        enough to be carried by one individual. Auto and small engine repair is not allowed. The
        business shall not create noise, odor, vibration, or other impacts discernible outside of
        the home. Anything that uses a material, a mixture of materials, or a quantity of
        materials that could be classified by the fire marshal or building official as dangerous or
        hazardous will not be allowed.

The applicants have stated that there are deliveries coming to the home and shipments
being picked up from the home. The new statements provided by the applicant (exhibit P)
did not detail the size or volume of the deliveries as requested but does indicate the
frequency of deliveries as occurring 2-3 times per week. The applicant also did not indicate
how many shipments were made from the home each week, or the size or frequency of
these shipments. The applicants’ statements indicate that the type of vehicles picking up
shipments would be the same as those making deliveries. The applicants initially proposed
limiting deliveries and shipments to mid-day to minimize noise disruptions to the
neighborhood. That is not included in their most recent statement of operations. It is
unclear if the applicants still support their initially suggested mitigation or not. The
applicants throughout the process have made multiple conflicting statements as to the
number of shipments received each day and week and the timing of shipments and
deliveries. The questions regarding the delivery and shipment volume have never been
directly or definitively addressed by the applicants. The most current statements by the
applicant indicate that shipments will be picked up at the home by individual shipping
companies.




Raining Hot Coupons, LLC                                           App. # 2023-4587-USE
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit           5
The applicant indicates that their cargo trailer will be used for storing and removing trash.
No details were provided as to how competing uses for the cargo trailer will be organized,
or where the trash is taken for disposal. Staff has added a suggested condition of approval
that storage of refuse prior to disposal and disposal of waste be done in accordance with
applicable law. Additionally, no indication was given in the new statements or plans as to
where the cargo trailer, now indicated as part of the business, will be parked or if it will be
screened from view.

Although the previously provided photos in Exhibit L show improvement in the cleanliness
of business operations, they do not provide proof of compliance as alluded to pertaining to
compliance with minimum residential parking requirements. Work tables, storage bins, a
refrigerator, microwave, etc., all can clearly be seen in the photos within the garage areas
that are claimed to have been entirely vacated by business operations. The floor plan in
exhibit O does label the front portion of the garage as a reclaimed garage, and the
northern portion as work area, presumably for the business, but shows all parking spaces
on the driveway, with none inside of the garage. According to the floor plan in exhibit O the
employee vehicles will be parking to the east of the double garage door, and resident
parking is indicated as being on the driveway in front of the double garage door, and not in
the garage as required or requested that it be shown. In the newly submitted statements
included in exhibit P the applicant states that some area within the garage has been
restored to residential use and in another section states they will ensure that two parking
spaces in the garage will be available for personal vehicle use which appear to be vague
statements that do not specify the return of the garage to the required use as residential
parking, but rather a more favorable, but still non-compliant residential use designation.
The submitted plans still do not provide the necessary verification for full compliance with
applicable city ordinances as claimed.

The listed hours of operation are Monday – Friday 9:00 am – 6:00 pm (exhibit P). The
applicants have stated they have an office in the home and that they store inventory in the
garage and the home. The most recent floor plan provided in exhibit O is a marked
improvement over past plans submitted, but when considering it alongside the new plot
plan provided in exhibit N, and a rough sketch available from the County Recorder (Exhibit
Q), continues to raise concern with staff as to whether it meets the reasonable degree of
accuracy needed. Competing claims exist in documentation provided in exhibits P and O
regarding the amount of area dedicated to storage. In the statements the applicants
indicated that the storage area does not exceed 250 square feet, however a specific
storage area is not identified on the floor plan. The work area (full of the inventory storage
bins as shown in exhibit L) is indicated in exhibit O as approximately 708 square feet in
size, significantly more that the 250 square feet claimed in exhibit P. Additionally the live
room/ office area is approximately 177 square feet in size and inventory storage appears to
also be occurring in that room. The total area claimed as being utilized by the business
within the dwelling is approximately 885 square feet. The applicants have declined
repeated requests to provide more accurate, fully dimensioned, and scaled floor plans for



Raining Hot Coupons, LLC                                        App. # 2023-4587-USE
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit         6
the home, but instead have continued to provide less accurate generalized plans, limited
information, and conflicting statements (Exhibits N, O and P). The documentation
submitted does not provide staff with sufficient verification of compliance with applicable
standards for home based businesses, nor does it provide sufficient detail to verify the
scope or compliance with the requested or potentially applicable modifications to those
standards.

The following are additional existing and anticipated negative impacts to adjacent
properties and the neighborhood that are created by the existing and proposed business
operation as identified by staff:
   • Increases in traffic and parking due to the presence of non-resident employees.
   • Noise from frequent and routine inventory deliveries and shipments from the
       home.
   • Impacts to the neighborhood if deliveries are made by large commercial vehicles
       such as box trucks or semi-trucks.
   • Non-compliance with required residential parking inside the garage and
       displacement of vehicles onto the driveway or street.
   • Overall magnitude of the operation overtaking and displacing the primary
       residential use of the home.
   • Potential nuisances created by the operation of packaging equipment.
   • The additional trash and recycling generated by shipping and receiving business and
       the potential for overflow to spill into yard areas, required on-site parking areas, or
       the street.

Staff has recommended denial of the conditional use permit as reasonably anticipated
detrimental impacts to the neighborhood and community remain that are not able to be
substantially mitigated through the imposition of reasonable conditions.

The DCMC Section 9-34-040 outlines development standards applicable to all home
occupations. Those criteria, along with additional information specific to the subject
request, are as follows:

        A. Ownership: The home occupation shall be owned and operated by a person who
           resides in the dwelling where the home occupation is located. Such person shall be
           the primary provider of the labor, work, or service provided in the home occupation.

             - The applicants stated in their submitted responses (exhibit P) that Sarah
             Gibbons is the primary owner and resides at the home.

        B. Business License: A business license for the home occupation shall be obtained from
           and continually maintained with the city pursuant to title 6, chapter 11 of this code.




Raining Hot Coupons, LLC                                          App. # 2023-4587-USE
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit           7
             - The applicants stated in their submitted responses (Exhibit P) that If approved
             they are prepared to comply with this standard.

        C. Employees: Members of the family of the owner who reside in the dwelling may be
           employed in the home occupation. Nonfamily or nonresident employees shall be
           limited to one person.

             -The applicants have requested to be allowed up to two (2) or three (3) non-
             residents employees. Their current and past statements remain are not clear as
             to how many they are requesting the ability to have. They have indicated that
             currently they only have two (2) non-resident employees. This is in addition to
             the two (2) resident employees (business owners). Staff suggests that should the
             Planning Commission find the other impacts of the business to be mitigatable
             and desire to approve the application, that as one of those mitigations, the non-
             resident employees be limited to two (2) to further mitigate the scale of business
             operations taking place within the attached garage and the home.

        D. Inspection: All facilities shall comply with fire, building, plumbing, electrical and all
           other city, county, state and federal codes. Inspections during reasonable hours by
           city officials may occur as necessary to assure compliance with regulations.

             -The applicants acknowledged that they will be subject to inspections to verify
             compliance with ordinance requirements in their responses (Exhibit P).
             Inspections will be required as part of the business license review process.

        E. Inventory: No stock in trade, inventory, or other merchandise to exceed two hundred
           fifty (250) square feet shall be kept on the premises. No outside storage is allowed.

             -The applicants have stated in their responses contained in exhibit P that they
             have revised their storage and inventory practices to ensure they do not exceed
             250 square feet of inventory storage space on the premises. They have also
             stated that business operations include managing inventory within the premises,
             with no outside storage. These statements conflict with other stated operational
             parameters to use the northern portion of the garage (approximately 707
             square feet) for storage and areas within the home for product storage
             associated with their office/live room (approximately 147 square feet).
             The applicants have stated that they will be efficiently managing inventory to
             minimize disruption to the neighborhood and to ensure the dwelling remains
             primarily for residential use. No further details on what the plan to manage
             inventory, or how it would minimize neighborhood disruptions were provided.

             Staff is concerned that the amount and location of area utilized for inventory
             and storage will continue to exceed the areas that the applicant has claimed



Raining Hot Coupons, LLC                                             App. # 2023-4587-USE
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit             8
             they will limit it to, based on the photographs provided in exhibit L showing a
             cleaned-up storage and work area that is larger. Based upon the applicants’
             statements that they will only return the garage to residential use, and not
             residential parking, staff is of the opinion that the intent is to use the area for
             typical residential storage that is otherwise displaced by the business
             operations. This then displaces the required vehicular use withing the garage as
             noted on the resubmitted floor plans (exhibit O) onto the driveway, creating an
             impact to the neighborhood that is unmitigated. The proposal still does not meet
             the minimum parking standards for residential dwellings found in DCMC Section
             9-25-050(F)(4) which require a minimum of two parking spaces located inside of
             a garage.

             Whether or not approval is granted for the proposed business, the minimum
             two (2) parking spaces inside the garage must be restored to use as parking for
             personal vehicles owned and operated by the residents of the dwelling to
             remedy the existing violations of ordinance.

             Should the Planning Commission determine that the conditional use is able to
             be approved, staff recommends including explicit conditions that the two (2)
             required parking spaces within the garage for residential use be maintained and
             that the business use of the property not impact the tandem parking behind
             these spaces.

        F. Modification Of Structures Or Yards: There shall be no visible evidence from the
           exterior of a dwelling that it is being used for any other purpose than that of a
           dwelling. No activities shall be carried on outside the dwelling in the yard for the
           benefit of or incidental to the home occupation. No front yard area shall be altered to
           provide parking required for a home occupation.

             -The home occupation is proposed to be located entirely within the home and
             attached garage. No alteration of the exterior of the home or yard areas is
             proposed.

        G. Nuisance: Tools, items, equipment, or activities conducted within the dwelling which is
           offensive or noxious by reason of the emission of odor, smoke, gas, vibration,
           magnetic interference, or noise shall be prohibited.

             -The applicants have indicated that they will comply with this standard. No
             details on exactly what tools or equipment they will be using were provided.

        H. Secondary Use: The home occupation shall be clearly incidental and secondary to the
           primary use of the dwelling for residential purposes. The home occupation shall not
           disrupt the normal residential character of the neighborhood in which the residence



Raining Hot Coupons, LLC                                          App. # 2023-4587-USE
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit          9
             is located. Not more than twenty five percent (25%) of the dwelling unit shall be used
             for the home occupation.

             - The applicants have stated that they have taken measures to ensure the
             business does not disrupt the normal residential character of the neighborhood.
             No details on what those measures are or will be were provided. The revised
             plans (exhibit O) would indicate that the business will occupy approximately 885
             square feet, which calculates to approximately 19.4% of the dwelling area when
             compared to the approximately 4552 square feet of total square footage for the
             dwelling reported by the County Assessors (exhibit Q).

             The applicants submitted an updated floor plan drawing (exhibit O), but with the
             odd shaped rooms and noticeable discrepancies between it and other aspects of
             the house layout in plans included as exhibits N and Q, it still does not have the
             reasonably degree of accurate that has been requested for documentation and
             verification of claims that the business will comply with certain aspects of
             ordinance. Updated photos in exhibit L still appear to contradict some of the
             claims regarding the location, shape, and size of business operations within the
             structure.

        I.   Signs: All signage in a residential area must comply with chapter 26, "Signs", of this
             title.

             -The applicants did not address this criterion in their revised responses. In the
             past they have indicated that they have no signs on the property related to the
             business and have indicated that they do not intend to put up any signage.

        J.   Traffic, Parking, And Access: No home occupation use shall generate pedestrian,
             parking, or vehicular traffic in excess of that customarily associated with the zone in
             which the use is located. All parking shall be provided and maintained on site with
             adequate provision for drop off traffic.

             - The applicants did not directly address this criterion in their revised responses
             to DCMC 9-34-040. The new floor plan (exhibit O) indicates that all parking will be
             provided on-site on the driveway. The photos submitted in exhibit L still show
             storage and business use in the areas near the garage doors. The photos and
             revised floor plan drawing do not support the claims of compliance with
             residential parking requirements, or that the area utilized for the business within
             the garage has been reduced to the approximately 708 square feet claimed.

             As outlined above in criterion E, the required parking inside of the garage will
             need to be restored for residential parking use to comply with ordinance.




Raining Hot Coupons, LLC                                             App. # 2023-4587-USE
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit            10
             The applicants did state in their responses (exhibit P) that customers do not
             come to the home, alleviating the need to address customer parking, however
             deliveries and shipments to and from the home do occur, which increases
             additional vehicular traffic. The applicants have indicated that the deliveries and
             shipments from the home will be managed but have not provided reliable
             details on what delivery or shipment scale or frequency they will adhere to.
             Parking and screening of the cargo trailer, which reportedly is now used for the
             business, was not addressed by the applicant in their responses.

             Should the Planning Commission make findings necessary to approve the
             application, staff has included in the list of potential mitigating conditions that
             may be used a condition that all deliveries to the residence be made by typical
             small and light duty delivery vehicles that do not exceed Federal Highway
             Administration (FHWA) class 2, with an allowance for typical commercial delivery
             vans used for residential deliveries that are class 3. To preserve the residential
             character of the neighborhood, business deliveries by other vehicles FHWA class
             3 or greater should be prohibited.

        K. Vehicles: Other than the business owner's personal transportation, there shall be no
           vehicles or equipment on the property associated with the home occupation which
           would not normally be found at a residence. No signage for the home occupation
           shall be allowed on vehicles.

             - The applicants did not address this criterion in their revised responses to 9-34-
             040. All known vehicles associated with the property are passenger type vehicles
             that would be normally found at a residence. There is no known signage on the
             work vehicles. During an earlier site visit staff noticed an enclosed utility trailer
             parked on the east side of the home behind the front wall plane of the adjacent
             garage. The applicants have now indicated in their updated responses (exhibit P)
             that the trailer is equipment associated with the business but have not
             addressed aspects regarding parking or screening of the trailer.

        L. Yards: Yards surrounding the dwelling and accessory buildings shall not be used for
           any activities or storage of any materials associated with the home occupation.

             -The applicants did not directly address this standard in their revised responses
             to DCMC 9-34-040 (exhibit P). The applicants have indicated in their response to
             criterion E that they will not have outdoor storage.

        M. Customers: No customers allowed. Children accessing a limited daycare or limited
           preschool facility shall not be considered customers.




Raining Hot Coupons, LLC                                           App. # 2023-4587-USE
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit           11
             - The applicants did not directly address this standard in their revised responses
             to DCMC 9-34-040 (exhibit P). The applicants have indicated in other portions of
             their submitted statements that they will not have any customers coming to the
             home.

        N. Utility Demand: The home occupation shall not cause a demand for public utilities in
           excess of that necessarily and customarily provided for residential uses.

             - The applicants did not directly address this standard in their revised responses
             to DCMC 9-34-040 (exhibit P). This was addressed by the applicants in other
             responses indicating that they will collect the trash in their cargo trailer and
             dispose of it off-site. No other details were provided. Staff wants to make sure
             the trash and recycling are collected and disposed of properly according to
             applicable law.

             Should the Planning Commission make findings necessary to approve the
             application, staff has included in the list of potential mitigating conditions that
             may be used a condition that the applicant remove the trash and recycling
             weekly and keep documentation of this weekly disposal with receipts from the
             landfill or recycling center together with the amount of refuse disposed of.
             Alternatively, this could be remedied through the imposition of a condition
             requiring the contracting for additional removal services. In keeping with the
             residential character of the neighborhood, the use of dumpsters should also be
             prohibited.

        O. Main Structure: The home occupations shall be conducted, located, and contained
           within the primary structure on the property.

             - The applicants did not directly address this standard in their revised responses
             to DCMC 9-34-040 (exhibit P). Office work and live video production is done in
             what has previously been indicated was a spare bedroom and bathroom within
             the home. Based on the newly submitted floor plan (exhibit O) this appears to
             potentially be a portion of a much larger room, perhaps a living room.
             Applicants have indicated that the majority of shipping and inventory work is
             done in the garage area. The site plan provided by the applicant (exhibit N), the
             floor plan (exhibit O) and the sketch from the County Assessor (exhibit Q) differ
             or conflict with one another fairly significantly, enough so that staff is unable to
             verify the specific area or size of the area within the home that it proposed to be
             utilized by the home-based business.

        P. Single-Family And Multiple-Family Dwellings: Home occupations listed as permitted or
           conditional within this title may be permitted in a single-family or a multiple-family
           dwelling, subject to the standards found within this section and section 9-34-060 of



Raining Hot Coupons, LLC                                          App. # 2023-4587-USE
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit          12
             this chapter. Businesses within multiple-family dwellings shall provide an approval
             letter from the respective homeowners' association, or management company in the
             case of apartments, if the business proposes any employees, customers or business
             vehicles.

             - The applicants did not directly address this standard in their revised responses
             to DCMC 9-34-040 (exhibit P). The home occupation is located within a single-
             family dwelling. The limited assembly and repair use is listed as a conditional use
             in DCMC chapter 9-34-050.

        Q. Licensure: Any home occupation involving childcare shall comply with all applicable
           state and local laws and regulations regarding residential childcare, including, but
           not limited to, provisions of the Utah child care licensing act, as set forth in Utah
           Code Annotated section 26-39-101 et seq., as amended, and the residential certificate
           childcare standards as set forth in the Utah administrative code section R430-50-1 et
           seq., as amended. In addition, cottage food production operations are regulated and
           inspected by the Utah department of agriculture. Any food related home occupation
           under their jurisdiction must comply with these regulations.

             - The applicants did not directly address this standard in their revised responses
             to DCMC 9-34-040 (exhibit P). This home business does not include childcare or
             food handling.

Criteria For Approval.
The criteria for review and potential approval of a conditional use permit request is found
in Section 9-5-080(E) of the DCMC. This section depicts the standard of review for such
requests as:

        E. Approval Standards: The standards of this subsection shall apply to the issuance of a
            conditional use permit:
         1. A conditional use permit may be issued for a use to be located within a zone where
            the particular conditional use is allowed by the use regulations of the zone.
         2. Reasonable conditions may be imposed as necessary to substantially mitigate
            reasonably anticipated detrimental effects of the proposed use. These conditions may
            include conditions concerning use, construction, character, location, landscaping,
            screening, parking, hours of operation, and other matters relating to the purposes
            and objectives of this section. Such conditions shall be expressly set forth in the
            motion authorizing the conditional use permit.
         3. If the reasonably anticipated detrimental effects of a proposed conditional use
            cannot be substantially mitigated by the imposition of reasonable conditions to
            achieve compliance with applicable standards, the conditional use may be denied.
         4. The following factors shall be reviewed and considered in determining whether a
            conditional use permit application should be approved, approved with conditions, or



Raining Hot Coupons, LLC                                          App. # 2023-4587-USE
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit          13
             denied because reasonable conditions cannot be imposed to achieve compliance with
             applicable standards:
              a. The harmony and compliance of the proposed use with the objectives and
                  requirements of the city's general plan and this title;
              b. The suitability of the specific property for the proposed use;
              c. Whether the proposed use or facility may be injurious to potential or existing
                  development in the vicinity;
              d. The economic impact of the proposed facility or use on the surrounding area;
              e. The aesthetic impact of the proposed facility or use on the surrounding area;
              f. The safeguards proposed or provided to ensure adequate utilities, transportation
                  access, drainage, parking, loading space, lighting, screening, landscaping, open
                  space, fire protection, and pedestrian and vehicular circulation;
              g. The safeguards provided or proposed to prevent noxious or offensive emissions
                  such as noise, glare, dust, pollutants and odor from the proposed facility or use;
                  and
              h. The impact of the proposed facility or use on the health, safety, and welfare of the
                  city, the area, and persons owning or leasing property in the area.
          5. The planning commission may request additional information as may be reasonably
             needed to determine whether the requirements of this subsection E can be met.



REVIEWS
Planning Division Review. The Draper City Planning Division has completed their review of
the Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit submission. Comments from this division, if
any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Engineering and Public Works Divisions Review. The Draper City Engineering and Public
Works Divisions have completed their reviews of the Home Occupation Conditional Use
Permit submission. Comments from these divisions, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Building Division Review. The Draper City Building Division has completed their review of the
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit submission. Comments from this division, if any,
can be found in Exhibit A.

Fire Division Review. The Draper City Fire Marshal has completed his review of the Home
Occupation Conditional Use Permit.

Noticing. Notice has been properly issued in the manner outlined in the City and State
Codes.



STAFF RECOMMENDATION
Based on the analysis above, staff recommends that the Planning Commission deny the



Raining Hot Coupons, LLC                                            App. # 2023-4587-USE
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit            14
request based on the findings listed below and the criteria for denial, as listed within the
staff report. The Planning Commission should also review the request, hear from the
applicant, and receive public comment prior to making a decision.

Should the Planning Commission, after reviewing the submitted documentation, find that
reasonable conditions for mitigating the detrimental effects of the business do exist and
decide to approve the request, staff recommends including the following as conditions of
approval in addition to other mitigation conditions identified by the Planning Commission
for mitigating the unmitigated detrimental effects identified in this staff report, or others
identified by the Planning Commission:

    1.       That all business requirements of the Draper City Engineering, Public Works
             Building, Business Licensing, Planning and Fire Divisions are satisfied throughout
             the operation of the business.
    2.       That a business license be obtained by the owner within 60 days from the date
             of approval by the Planning Commission, and that it be maintained for the life of
             the business.
    3.       That the hours of operation for the business remain within the typical business
             hours of 9:00 am – 7:00 pm, Monday through Friday.
    4.       That no customers or patrons are allowed to come to the property.
    5.       That the total number of non-resident employees of the business is limited to
             two (2).
    6.       That the required minimum of two (2) parking spaces located inside a garage for
             residential parking use be restored on the western portion of the garage, and be
             maintained for the life of the business. No business use or other storage may
             impede the use of the area required for the two (2) stalls. Stalls shall comply with
             the minimum size requirements for stalls located in a garage as listed in
             ordinance.
    7.       That employe parking shall be restricted to the locations designated on the
             submitted site plan and that the employee parking spaces may not be located in
             tandem with, or otherwise impede access to the minimum two (2) required
             parking spaces for use of residents located inside the garage.
    8.       That all business-related parking be maintained on-site.
    9.       That the area of business operations inside the dwelling be limited to the area
             indicated on the revised floor plan as the live room including the adjacent
             bathroom and storage room, not to exceed 177 square feet in total as indicated
             on the floor plan included as exhibit O in the staff report.
    10.      The total square footage of business operations shall not to exceed 885 sq. ft. as
             detailed on the floor plan included as Exhibit O in the staff report.
    11.      No additional expansion into other areas of the home or garage shall be
             permitted.




Raining Hot Coupons, LLC                                          App. # 2023-4587-USE
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit          15
    12.      That no nuisance may be caused through the use of tools, items, equipment, or
             activities conducted at the property which are offensive or noxious by reason of
             the emission of odor, smoke, gas, vibration, magnetic interference, or noise.
    13.      That all deliveries to the residence be made by typical small and light duty
             delivery vehicles that do not exceed FHWA class 2, except for deliveries made by
             the US Post Office, Amazon, Federal Express or UPS delivery vans typically used
             for residential deliveries that are class 3. Deliveries by any other vehicles FHWA
             class 3 or greater are prohibited,
    14.      That all deliveries be scheduled for weekdays, between the hours 11:00 am and
             2:00 pm to reduce noise and potential traffic impacts for other nearby
             residences.
    15.      That all shipments from the home be transported offsite for delivery to the
             shipping company at the shipping companies’ business location, by the owner
             utilizing their own vehicular transportation and cargo trailer as specified in the
             owner’s operational statement provided in exhibit P of the staff report.
    16.      No activities shall be carried on outside the dwelling in the yard for the benefit of
             the home occupation.
    17.      No outside storage of inventory related to the business shall be allowed. Outside
             storage of equipment shall be limited to the cargo trailer identified in the
             applicants’ statements in exhibit P of the staff report.
    18.      That all trash, refuse, and recycling generated by the business be transported
             off-site for disposal in the manner indicated in the applicant’s statements
             included as exhibit P of the staff report on at least a weekly basis at a landfill,
             recycling company, or other waste hauling operation in accordance with
             applicable law. Also, that the business retains receipts and other evidence
             indicating the amount disposed of and date. Dumping in other neighborhood,
             business, or community collection containers is not permitted. No dumpsters
             may be placed on site. Documentation of compliance will be subject to
             inspection by City staff upon request or complaint and must be provided within
             a reasonable time frame, not to exceed 72 hours.
    19.      That failure to complete all necessary steps to obtain a business license within
             the 60-day deadline shall result in the Planning Commission approval being null
             and void.
    20.      That violation of any of these conditions or other ordinances pertaining to the
             operation of the home-based business may result in the revocation of the
             Conditional Use Permits and business license as provided for in DCMC Sections
             6-1-040, 9-7-060 and 9-34-070.

MODEL MOTIONS AND FINDINGS
Sample Motion for Denial – I move that we deny the Raining Hot Coupons, LCC Home
Occupation Conditional Use Permit, as requested by Sarah Gibbons representing
application 2023-4587-USE based on the findings for denial as listed in the staff report
dated April 15, 2004.



Raining Hot Coupons, LLC                                          App. # 2023-4587-USE
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit           16
The findings for denial as are follows:
   1.     The proposal does not address all existing and anticipated detrimental effects of
          the business.
   2.     Impacts remain from the existing and anticipated detrimental effects of the
          business that are not able to be sufficiently mitigated through the imposition of
          reasonable mitigation measures.
   3.     The proposed use is not in harmony with the objectives and requirements of the
          city's general plan and will be detrimental to the health, safety, or general
          welfare of persons residing or working in the vicinity, or injurious to property or
          improvements in the vicinity.
   4.     The proposed use does not comply with applicable regulations and conditions
          specified in ordinance and does not comply with the intent of the City General
          Plan.
   5.     The nature and scope of the proposed business is industrially scaled, conflicting
          both with the defined intent of use type to not include mass production, and
          with the stated purposes of the RA2 zone to protect primary residential uses
          from commercial and industrial encroachment.
   6.     The specific property is not suitable for the magnitude of the proposed use.

Sample Motion for Approval– I move that we approve Raining Hot Coupons, LLC Home
Occupation Conditional Use Permit, as requested by Sarah Gibbons representing
application 2023-4587-USE subject to the following conditions and based on the following
findings:

Conditions:
   1.     The suggested conditions listed in the Staff Report dated April 15, 2024.
   2.     The following additional mitigating conditions… (list additional conditions)

Findings:
   1.     Impacts from the existing and anticipated detrimental effects of the business
          can be mitigated through the imposition of reasonable mitigation measures
          included in the stated conditions imposed by the Planning Commission.
   2.     List additional findings…




Raining Hot Coupons, LLC                                       App. # 2023-4587-USE
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit       17
                                       EXHIBIT A
                                  DEPARTMENT REVIEWS

REVIEWS ARE NOT MEANT TO BE AN ALL INCLUSIVE LIST OF POSSIBLE COMMENTS OR
CONDITIONS.

Planning Division Review.

    1. Staff comments and concerns have primarily been included in the body of the
       report. Statements and submittal documents provided to staff by the applicants are
       still inadequate to determine specifics as to the extend of current operations or the
       full extent of what is being requested. The limited assembly and repair use is by
       definition small scale production of items produced one at a time in small quantities
       or on a made to order basis and not for mass production. Staff is mainly concerned
       with the existing detrimental impacts to the neighborhood such as noise, increased
       business and delivery traffic, increased demands on utility services, and the like.
       These impacts are principally being created by the large magnitude of the business
       operations which magnitude conflicts with definition of the type of home
       occupation use being sought.

Engineering and Public Works Divisions Review.

   1. The present and future requirements for transportation, traffic, water, sewer, and other
      utilities for the subject site do not appear to be detrimentally impacted as described.
      Given the location and proposed use, the use is not anticipated to generate a significant
      impact to water, sewer, or other potential utilities.

   2. The number of trips generated by the home owner/employees will not have a
      detrimental impact to traffic in the area due the stated number of employees, two or
      three at any given time, and no customers visiting the residence where all the
      products are shipped based on internet sales. The applicant has indicated all services
      will be online while the products are packaged and shipped from the residence. With
      the applicant’s anticipation that there will be no more than two or three employees
      plus the applicant at a time at the residence and no customers, no significant impact
      to traffic is anticipated with the proposed use.

   3. The applicant has indicated that she has each employee park in the driveway but
      occasionally there may be a car parked in the public right-of-way. Stag Hill Circle, at the
      indicated address, is a cul-de-sac and is a public local street where on-street parking is
      currently permitted. Parking on Stag Hill Cir may impact traffic if it is during poor weather
      or if there are other cars parked on the opposite side or within the cul-de-sac. However,
      based on the information from the applicant, no significant impact to parking is
      anticipated with the proposed use.
   4. The proposed use does not appear detrimental to the health, safety, or general welfare
      of the persons residing or working in the vicinity, or injurious to the property or
      improvements in the vicinity.

   We appreciate the opportunity to review and provide comments related to the subject
   application. If you have any further questions, please call.

Building Division Review.

       1. No additional comments provided.

Fire Division Review.

       1. No additional comments provided.
  EXHIBIT B
VICINITY MAP
 EXHIBIT C
AERIAL MAP
  EXHIBIT D
LAND USE MAP
 EXHIBIT E
ZONING MAP
          EXHIBIT F
FLOOR PLAN (INITIAL SUBMITTAL)
               EXHIBIT G
APPLICANT STATEMENTS (INITIAL SUBMITTAL)
Narrative for Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit related to an online boutique. Here's a summary
of its contents:



Nature and Proposed Use: The business owner operates an online boutique offering curated fashion and
accessories. Key activities include managing the online interface, customer communications, inventory
management, and shipping orders. The digital nature of the business minimizes neighborhood
disturbances.



Parking and Hours of Operation: The business employs 2-3 people, working from 9:00 AM to 7:00 PM,
Monday to Friday. Parking for all employees is arranged in the driveway of the property, preventing on-
street parking issues and maintaining neighborhood aesthetics.



Expected Patrons and Employees: There are no in-person visits from patrons, as the business is entirely
online. The 2-3 employees are aware of the need to respect the residential environment's tranquility.



Proposed Site Improvements: No significant external site improvements are planned. The home's
exterior will remain unchanged. Internally, a room will be designated for inventory storage and order
packaging.



Anticipated Detrimental Effects and Mitigation:



Traffic: The presence of 2-3 employees may slightly increase traffic, but driveway parking is intended to
mitigate congestion or parking issues.

Noise: Occasional noise is expected during inventory deliveries or shipments. Deliveries will be
scheduled during mid-day to minimize disruptions.

In summary, the narrative outlines that the online boutique is designed to operate with a minimal
footprint in its residential setting. The business owner commits to maintaining harmony within the
environment, respecting city guidelines and neighborly peace.
From:                                                                                Tosh Hays <toshkhays@gmail.com>
Sent:                                                                                Wednesday, January 17, 2024 8:41 PM
To:                                                                                  Tevai Haunga
Subject:                                                                             Re: [EXT] Re: Conditional Use Permit additional info


[EXTERNAL SENDER! Only open attachments/links you know are safe.]

1. I'm writing to request permission to have two nonfamily or nonresident employees for my home-
based business. It's important to note that this will result in two additional vehicles at my residence, in
addition to our three personal vehicles. I assure you that I have a plan to manage this parking situation
effectively to prevent any disruption to our neighborhood's residential character. 2. I also want to
address the proposed expansion of our inventory and shipping area to 1,671 square feet. This expansion
includes not just the garage, which will be used for shipping intake and storage, but also an office space
inside my home. This layout is designed to support the operational needs of my business while
maintaining the residential nature of the property. 3. Regarding the occasional deliveries that will be
conducted outside the main residential structure, I will provide specifics on their frequency and scale.
My aim is to ensure that these activities do not lead to increased traffic or cause any disruption in the
neighborhood. 4. Finally, I am committed to adhering to Draper City’s Development Standards in all
aspects of my home-based business. This includes strict adherence to regulations concerning structural
modifications, signage, and utility demands. I am prepared to present a detailed plan to ensure full
compliance with these standards.



The link ed image cannot be display ed. The file may hav e been mov ed,
renamed, or deleted. Verify that the link points to the correct file and location.




On Wed, Jan 17, 2024 at 4:46 PM Tevai Haunga <Tevai.Haunga@draperutah.gov> wrote:

            Hi Tosh,



            I got the pics. Thank you. Can you tell me how many personal vehicles you have and how many
            employee vehicles come to the property during work hours? Also what is the square footage used for
            inventory and the home office. If I’m measuring a rough estimate of just the garage I have about 500-
            600 sq ft in inventory? Please confirm these numbers. Thank you!




            From: Tosh Hays <toshkhays@gmail.com>
            Sent: Wednesday, January 17, 2024 3:57 PM
            To: Tevai Haunga <Tevai.Haunga@draperutah.gov>
            Subject: Re: [EXT] Re: Conditional Use Permit additional info
            EXHIBIT H
INTERIOR PHOTOS (INITIAL SUBMITTAL)
    EXHIBIT I
PUBLIC COMMENTS
Tevai Haunga

From:                 David Werts <david.werts@comcast.net>
Sent:                 Wednesday, January 31, 2024 3:22 PM
To:                   Tevai Haunga
Subject:              [EXT] Planning Commission - CUP Application #2023-4587-USE


[EXTERNAL SENDER! Only open attachments/links you know are safe.]

I live across the street to the southeast of this property that is reques&ng the condi&onal use permit(my home is 1962 E
Stag Hill Circle). My wife and I oppose allowing this change in use. We already have a neighbor that has a salon in their
basement that brings lots of cars to the cul-de-sac and is not appropriate for a quiet residen&al street. This is why ci&es
have property Zoning, businesses that have employees and customers should lease or buy space in appropriately zoned
parts of Draper City or elsewhere. I am in commercial real estate, there are lots of vacant commercial spaces from very
small(much smaller than this house) to large, where these businesses can prosper and improve the economy. Allowing
commercial uses in residen&al areas is NOT THE ANSWER.

Thank you for your service to the city.

On a side note, I do not think this applicant even owns the property, they are only ren&ng the home temporarily. Either
way an excep&on should not be made, but if it was the home owner I would feel a li9le be9er considering they would
hopefully be more respec:ul of the neighbors and impact their business ac&vi&es would have on the neighborhood.

Sincerely,

David & Molly Werts

David C. Werts
Principal



801-996-8626 Office
360-566-5556 Cell




                                                             1
Tevai Haunga

From:              Amie Hammer <hammera99@yahoo.com>
Sent:              Wednesday, February 7, 2024 6:01 PM
To:                Tevai Haunga
Subject:           [EXT] Letter from Amie and John Delaney on Stag Ridge Drive re: Notice of Public Hearing for Sarah
                   Gibbons (keep names confidential)


[EXTERNAL SENDER! Only open attachments/links you know are safe.]

To: Draper City Hall Planning Commission/Community Development

Re: Sarah Gibbons/Raining Hot Coupons, Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit Request on February 8th,
2024
   property located at 1935 E. Stag Hill Circle

We have been homeowners in Draper for 15 years. We live in the Stag Hill Circle/Stag Ridge Drive area in
Draper and are writing this letter to the Draper City Council requesting the permit request by Sarah Gibbons for
an assembly and repair, limited home occupation be rejected. In this letter, we will provide our personal
perspective (namely, how it’s been a nuisance and has negatively impacted the nature of our neighborhood)
along with what appear to be several violations of Draper’s development standards.

Starting with our personal experience, Ms. Gibbons has been running her business “Raining Hot Coupons” out
of her rental home (1935 E. Stag Hill Circle) since she moved into our neighborhood last spring (2023). After
receiving a notice of public hearing from Draper City Hall (last week), it appears she must have been running
her business this whole time without a permit as well. Or, at the very least, she seems to have been operating
in violation of several permitted use codes, which we have listed below.

For starters, I’m surprised you would even consider granting Ms. Gibbons additional rights to disrupt our
neighborhood further when she is not the homeowner of that residence. And from our vantage, we don’t think
it’s a slippery slope to fear what should befall our neighborhood should further concessions from our existing
RA2 zoning be made. Based on our experience so far, it seems only logical that matters will get worse if more
employees are allowed to park on our street and circle, more customers allowed to visit their home, more
delivery trucks to drop off new product … and more garbage (packing materials, etc.) from her five
garbage/recycling bins which does, from time to time, tip over and blow into others’ yards.

As our street is steep and ends in a circle, it does not not allow for extra parking or easy maneuvering when
multiple vehicles are constantly parked all over the place. During the winter this can be especially troubling as
snow plows have had to navigate with caution and sometimes weren’t able to plow our road as effectively with
all of the extra vehicles parked on the street relating to Ms. Gibbon’s business. This may be due to the fact that
at least one of Ms. Gibbon’s garages is being used as a warehouse/ storage unit, so whatever vehicles don’t fit
on her driveway, are parked on the street, which can leave little room for other residents’ family and guest
vehicles.

To illustrate this point, we know the postman has not been able to deliver mail to one of her neighbors because
the vehicles from Ms. Gibbon’s employees and/or delivery trucks have parked directly in front of their mailbox
for weeks on end. How do we know that? Everyone could see all the cars that were always parked in front of
the Ereksons’ house and mailbox. They had to physically relocate their mailbox to start receiving mail again.
While that hasn’t been a problem for us yet, I’m nervous about what expanded business operations might look
like if more people need to park on our street to conduct business there. And, frankly speaking, we paid a lot of
money to buy a house in this neighborhood, so we wouldn’t have to worry about stuff like this.

In addition to our personal concerns, here are some of the codes we think are being violated:

                                                         1
9-34-040: DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS; PERMITTED USE: [Comments in Red]
The development standards set forth in this section shall apply to any home occupation allowed as a permitted
use:
A. Ownership: The home occupation shall be owned and operated by a person who resides in the dwelling
where the home occupation is located. Such person shall be the primary provider of the labor, work, or service
provided in the home occupation. [Since Sarah Gibbons is NOT the owner of this house, why is their request
even under consideration?]
C. Employees: Members of the family of the owner who reside in the dwelling may be employed in the home
occupation. Nonfamily or nonresident employees shall be limited to one person. [They clearly have more than
one employee physically working there who is not a resident of that house.]
E. Inventory: No stock in trade, inventory, or other merchandise to exceed two hundred fifty (250) square feet
shall be kept on the premises. No outside storage is allowed. (Ord. 909, 7-21-2009) [They really have to be
cutting it close on this one. I wouldn’t be surprised at all if this was in violation as well, given all the space being
used for storage already.]
G. Nuisance: Tools, items, equipment, or activities conducted within the dwelling which is offensive or noxious
by reason of the emission of odor, smoke, gas, vibration, magnetic interference, or noise shall be prohibited. A
lot of the trash from their business finds its way onto the yards of other Stag Hill Circle/Stag Ridge Drive
residents when the canyon wind tips over Ms. Gibbon’s garbage cans spilling out non-bagged trash/packing
material, etc.
J. Traffic, Parking, And Access: No home occupation use shall generate pedestrian, parking, or vehicular
traffic in excess of that customarily associated with the zone in which the use is located. All parking shall be
provided and maintained on site with adequate provision for drop off traffic. [Since their house is on a circle,
they have no strip in the front of their house for additional parking–resulting in their own vehicles along with
employees, customers, delivery trucks, etc. parking in front of other people’s property (oftentimes for extended
periods of time).]
M. Customers: No customers allowed. Children accessing a limited daycare or limited preschool facility shall
not be considered customers. [Customers do, in fact, visit there. In fact, right when they moved in, they had a
month-long+ garage sale.]




                                                           2
         I am writing in response to the request by the renter Sarah Gibbons at 1935 East Stag Hill Circle,
for a permit to allow her to expand her business use of the property and strongly request that the
permit is denied. I live in the joining property on the west side of the home she rents and was surprised
that as a renter she could request this kind of permit. Since moving in there have been multiple events
that have made it unpleasant and made it so I no longer like the street that I live on.

         Since Ms. Gibbons moved in, she moved in with at least 2 employees from day one even though
she had not a permit to do so. I have talked with and seen them come with regularity. Often they park
on the street in front of her home and in front of my own. Her employees would frequently park in front
of my mailbox which was next to our property line and so I would not get my mail because the mail
truck could not access my mail box. After the 3rd occasion when this happened I spoke with her
employee and told him as he was exiting his vehicle that was blocking my mailbox that I had again
missed the mail that day and that I would need him to move his vehicle. He said “ok” and went back in
to Ms. Gibbions rental home but never moved it. The very next day the cars of her employees were on
the street again and so I walked up to speak with Ms. Gibbions. Her employee answered the door and
she stood behind him. I told them politely that I had missed my mail 3 days last week and that I would
need then to move their vehicle before the mail delivery came. Ms. Gibbions would not engage in
conversation and walk away. The employee said “ok” but made no move to do anything until I insisted
that it needed to happen right then. After a couple of months of this inconvenience, my husband and I
finally paid to have a brick mason move our mailbox and place it so her cars could no longer block it.

        During this time we also began having to deal with Ms. Gibbions 3 German Sheppard’s which
she would leave out on her back deck who bark all day long except when they would come down to the
fence and bark at me or members of my family and it intensifies whenever we went outside into our
own yard. We are on a slope and so Ms. Gibbions deck looks down into our and her dogs could see
whenever we came out side. We have not been able to entertain friends or have a meal outside since
Ms. Gibbons moved into her rental. I had gone over to her home to speak with her on 4 different
occasion to talk about this and no one would answer the door so I left a note 2 times explaining my the
concern and asking her to call me and asking her to please be mindful of us. My husband became
disabled a few years ago and his health is declining and the constant barking all day has made it difficult
for him to rest at all. To this day she has never called or ever responded in any way to my overtures to
have a conversation. I include this because I think it shows her character. She has no interest in
developing positive relationships with her neighbors in any way.

          Additionally her business endeavors create additional traffic on our steep circle which is already
difficult to navigate. I am unsure where she thinks her employees can even park. My residence has 2
drivers that park on the street and the Needs and the Wert’s have drivers that live in their homes that
need to park on the street and Ms. Gibbons other neighbor already has a permit for customers to come
and go while she does hair. The first month Ms. Gibbons moved in she ran sales out of her property for a
month selling furniture and clothing from her business. While is to be expected thtat neighbors hold
garage sales occasionally this felt excessive and made it difficult to even turn into our driveway becsue
of the amount of people due to her online presence and traffic was great for this extended period of
time. Separately from this there are trucks that make deliveries and trucks that stop on our street on a
regular basis to move her merchandise. Additionally, because of her business she generates a
tremendous amount of trash. Her garbage cans are always out overflowing with the lids open. This
makes my yard a collection place for all sorts of shipping, garment bags, packing paper and various
debris with her name on it that blow into my yard which I have to pick up regularly. On the times when
it has been windy and her cans have blown over she has not once come to collect it from my front yard
even after I let it sit for a day even though she can see that it is hers.

         I have not included all of the grievances that I have with regard to Ms. Gibbons as I have tried to
focus most of my comments on the business aspects of my concern but to sum it up I have never lived
next to someone so inconsiderate of basic common courtesy’s that a neighbor should have. She has
shown she has no investment in our street and neighborhood. She does not care that her actions
adversely impact her neighbors and makes it so living on my street is unpleasant. This has been
especially hard on our family because it is stressful for my husband. She has consistently thumbed her
nose at the law which she has been well aware that she is breaking. I am concerned that if you give her
approval to expand her business privileges, what is the next level of laws that she will thumb her nose at
and apologize later about? I express this with some concern that there will be some form of retaliation
possible but feel this would negatively impact our neighborhood greatly. I would hope as an actual
homeowner in Draper City that pays taxes and is invested in our community that my voice would not
count little in your consideration for this permit and more than someone who is transient and renting.

Sincerely,

Carol Erekson

1921 East Stag Hill Cir, Draper
Tevai Haunga

From:                Carol erekson <carolerekson@hotmail.com>
Sent:                Thursday, February 8, 2024 1:34 PM
To:                  Tevai Haunga
Subject:             [EXT] applicant Sarah Gibbions


[EXTERNAL SENDER! Only open attachments/links you know are safe.]

Regarding: Sarah Gibbons raining Hot Coupons 1935 E Stag Hill Cir.

After reading the proposal and response from the applicant I think some additional details regarding parking should be
mentioned. The applicant indicates that the employees can park on her driveway but as mentioned the garage is used
for the business so the home owner and her cohabitant park outside and the applicant has children. The applicant parks
her vehicle on the driveway but her partner parks his truck and attached trailer on the street taking up almost the entire
space in front of the home she rents. When delivery’s come or delivery services come to load up the merchandise she is
sending out from her business they often back into her driveway in order to do so. This requires those parked on her
driveway to all end up on the street occupying’s a significant amount of the curb on our street and not limited to in front
of her residence. I do not feel it is an accurate representation to create the picture that vehicles can possibly be
contained to the space in front of the home she occupies and her driveway.




                                                             1
     EXHIBIT J
UPDATED FLOOR PLAN
            EXHIBIT K
ADDITIONAL APPLICANT STATEMENTS
       EXHIBIT L
UPDATED INTERIOR PHOTOS
       EXHIBIT M
ND
2    UPDATED SITE PLAN
                                                                                                                                                    GENERAL & KEYED NOTES

                                  S 89° 52' 43" E

                                        105.05'




                                                    N 0° 02' 27" E

                                                                     190.40'
N 0° 02' 27" E

                 190.43'




                                                                                                                                                 TIMPHAVEN
                                                                                                                                                   DESIGN




                                                                                                            NORTH
                                                                                                                                          291 E 950 S - Orem, UT 84058       C: 301.512.6859




                                                                               60                 40                   20    10   5   0
                                                                                                                                           Sarah
                                                                                                          SCALE                            Gibbons
                                                                                    SUBDIVISION INFORMATION                               Applicant: Tosh Hays

                                                                                                                                          Contractor shall verify all dimensions, conditions
                                                                                    City                            Draper                and measurements at the job prior to construction.
                                                                                                                                          These plans and documents are the property of
                           S 89° 53' 57" E                                          State                            Utah
                                                                                                                                          TimpHaven Design, and any reuse or further
                                                                                                                                          distribution thereof in part or in whole without the
                                                                                                                                          written permission of the designer is strictly
                                                                                                                                          prohibited. Designer is not an architect or engineer.
                              105.05'                                               Plat                                                   C Copyright 2024 TimpHaven Design




                                                                                                                                                                                                  SITE PLAN
                                                                                    Lot                        Lot 9                      12 x 18 (sheet size): 1"=20'-0"

                           STAG HILL CIRCLE                                         Subdivision        Hunter Ridge At Draper
                                                                                                                                          24 x 36 (sheet size): 1"=10'-0"
                                                                                                                                           Project: Hays
                                                                                    Address             1935 E. Stag Hill Cir.
                                                                                                                                           07 Feb. 2024                     C2.1
       EXHIBIT N
RD
3    UPDATED SITE PLAN
                                                                                                                                                    GENERAL & KEYED NOTES

                                  S 89° 52' 43" E

                                        105.05'




                                                    N 0° 02' 27" E

                                                                     190.40'
N 0° 02' 27" E

                 190.43'




                                                                                                                                                 TIMPHAVEN
                                                                                                                                                   DESIGN




                                                                                                            NORTH
                                                                                                                                          291 E 950 S - Orem, UT 84058       C: 301.512.6859




                                                                               60                 40                   20    10   5   0
                                                                                                                                           Sarah
                                                                                                          SCALE                            Gibbons
                                                                                    SUBDIVISION INFORMATION                               Applicant: Tosh Hays

                                                                                                                                          Contractor shall verify all dimensions, conditions
                                                                                    City                            Draper                and measurements at the job prior to construction.
                                                                                                                                          These plans and documents are the property of
                           S 89° 53' 57" E                                          State                            Utah
                                                                                                                                          TimpHaven Design, and any reuse or further
                                                                                                                                          distribution thereof in part or in whole without the
                                                                                                                                          written permission of the designer is strictly
                                                                                                                                          prohibited. Designer is not an architect or engineer.
                              105.05'                                               Plat                                                   C Copyright 2024 TimpHaven Design




                                                                                                                                                                                                  SITE PLAN
                                                                                    Lot                        Lot 9                      12 x 18 (sheet size): 1"=20'-0"

                           STAG HILL CIRCLE                                         Subdivision        Hunter Ridge At Draper
                                                                                                                                          24 x 36 (sheet size): 1"=10'-0"
                                                                                                                                           Project: Hays
                                                                                    Address             1935 E. Stag Hill Cir.
                                                                                                                                           07 Feb. 2024                     C2.1
        EXHIBIT O
RD
3    UPDATED FLOOR PLAN
              EXHIBIT P
RD
3    UPDATED APPLICANT STATEMENTS
Comprehensive Compliance and Opera onal Overview of Simply Obsessed/Raining Hot Coupons

Introduc on: We at Simply Obsessed/Raining Hot Coupons are dedicated to aligning our business
opera ons with the regulatory framework of Draper City and are commi ed to contribu ng posi vely to
our community's well-being. This document aims to elucidate our adherence to local ordinances,
emphasizing our ini a ves to mi gate any poten al impact on our neighborhood.

Designated Parking and Traﬃc: Our opera onal strategy includes two dedicated parking spots for our
employees, ensuring minimal impact on neighborhood parking. Our compact team size and organized
scheduling mean our business ac vi es do not signiﬁcantly aﬀect local traﬃc or parking.

No Street Parking for Employees: We commit to having zero employees park on the street. Our
opera onal plan includes designated parking spaces within our property boundaries to accommodate all
employees. This strategy ensures that our business opera ons do not contribute to parking conges on
within our neighborhood.

Garage Accessibility: In line with requests for maintaining residen al character and func onality, we
guarantee that our garage will remain accessible for residen al use. We have reorganized our
opera onal space to ensure that the garage, a cri cal component of our home's residen al appeal and
func onality, is not u lized for business opera ons beyond what is permissible. This adjustment further
signiﬁes our commitment to preserving the residen al integrity of our property and by extension, our
neighborhood.

Waste Management Prac ces: We are commi ed to maintaining our community's cleanliness and order.
We u lize a cargo trailer for storing and transpor ng large trash items away from community areas for
eﬃcient waste management. This strategy prevents any spillover of trash into public spaces, aligning
with the city's cleanliness eﬀorts.

Delivery and Shipment Procedures: Our conscien ous approach to inventory management includes
u lizing standard residen al delivery services. USPS and UPS handle our shipments and deliveries within
their regular schedules, using standard residen al trucks, minimizing traﬃc conges on and noise.
Deliveries occur 2-3 mes a week, ensuring they integrate smoothly into the neighborhood rou ne
without causing disrup ons.

Opera onal Noise Levels: Our opera ons are notably quiet, as we priori ze hand-packing methods that
produce minimal noise. This careful approach ensures we maintain the tranquil atmosphere of our
residen al neighborhood.

Compliance with Zoning Requirements: We strictly adhere to the zoning requirements, par cularly
concerning the allowable percentage of our home used for business purposes. This ensures our
residen al property retains its primary role as a home, with business ac vi es restricted to a permissible
area.

Fire Safety Compliance: We have recently hosted the Fire Marshal for an inspec on, during which we
met all required safety standards. This inspec on underscores our commitment to maintaining a safe
environment for our opera ons and community.
Visual Separa on in the Garage: We have applied a durable tape line across the ﬂoor of our garage,
clearly outlining the speciﬁc area designated for business opera ons. This physical boundary serves as
a constant visual reminder of the space limita ons set forth by the city’s zoning regula ons and our
commitment to adhere to them.



Documenta on and Transparency: This demarca on is accurately reﬂected in the scaled and
dimensioned plans submi ed as part of our applica on. Furthermore, we will maintain a photographic
record of the marked area within our garage. These photographs will be readily available for review,
serving as a straigh orward reference for city oﬃcials and inspectors to verify our compliance with the
designated space allowed for business use.



Commitment to Compliance: This measure is part of our broader commitment to transparency and
compliance with local zoning laws. We intend that by visually dis nguishing between the residen al
and business por ons of our garage, we can eﬀec vely manage our opera ons within the approved
parameters and alleviate any concerns regarding the poten al for business encroachment into
residen al spaces.



By implemen ng these measures, we aim to not only demonstrate our compliance with zoning
regula ons but also reinforce our dedica on to maintaining the residen al integrity of our
neighborhood. We believe that this visual approach to delinea ng business space will facilitate easier
veriﬁca on of compliance and underscore our proac ve eﬀorts to operate responsibly within our
community.

Community Engagement and Con nuous Compliance: We are proac ve in engaging with our
community and city oﬃcials, addressing any concerns, and remaining open to feedback. Our goal is to
con nuously align our opera ons with Draper City's regula ons and foster a harmonious rela onship
with our neighbors.

Conclusion: We are commi ed to upholding Draper City's standards and enhancing our community's
quality of life. Our opera onal strategies are designed to ensure our home-based business coexists
peacefully with residen al norms. We welcome further dialogue with the city and our neighbors to
ensure ongoing compliance and community harmony.

Thank you for considering our eﬀorts to maintain a responsible and compliant business opera on in our
beloved community.
Simply Obsessed DBA Raining Hot Coupons, LLC
Condi onal Use Permit Applica on Document

Applicant Informa on:

      Name: Sarah Gibbons

      Business Name: Simply Obsessed (DBA Raining Hot Coupons, LLC)

      Telephone Number: 801-960-6087

      Email Address: sarah@raininghotcoupons.com

Property Informa on:

      Address: 1935 Stag Hill Cir, Draper, UT 84020

      Current Zoning: RA2

      Present Use of Property: Residential, proposed for a home-based online clothing boutique.

Proposed Condi onal Use Descrip on:
Simply Obsessed, under Raining Hot Coupons, LLC, is an entirely online clothing boutique,
engaging in the purchase, and resale of clothing, and accessories, and o ering drop shipping
services. We operate within a digital marketplace, conducting sales without physical customer
interaction. Business hours are from 9 AM to 6 PM, Monday through Friday, emphasizing our
commitment to a structured, minimal-impact operation.

Opera onal Details and Compliance Measures:

   1. Business Opera on and Impact Analysis:

              As a fully online operation, we guarantee zero walk-in tra ic, eliminating any impact
               on local tra ic and parking. The operation supports the residential ambiance by
               ensuring business activities are invisible and inaudible from the neighborhood.

   2. Plot Plan and Site Details:

              Applicant's Name: Sarah Gibbons

              Site Address: 1935 Stag Hill Cir, Draper, UT 84020

              Property Boundaries and Dimensions: Detailed in the application ﬁle.

              Exis ng and Proposed Layout: Utilizes a small portion of the home for o ice space,
               strictly adhering to zoning regulations, ensuring the property remains primarily
               residential.

              Adjacent Property Lines and Uses: Fully residential, with our operation seamlessly
               blending without altering the neighborhood's character.

   3. Traﬃc Impact and Mi ga on:
              The digital nature of our boutique ensures our presence is non-disruptive, with
               employee tra ic limited to minimal, ensuring no disturbance to our neighborhood's
               peace and tranquility.

   4. Compliance and Mi ga on Statement:

              We are fully committed to upholding Draper City's zoning and operational standards
               for home occupations, designed to minimize impacts on the community and
               municipal services.

   5. Opera onal Use and Impact on Adjacent Proper es:

              Our operation's digital footprint means no noise, no increase in foot or vehicle
               tra ic, and no disruption to local waste management practices. Employee parking is
               contained within designated spots to ensure the residential nature is preserved.

We stand by our commitment to maintaining the standards and expectations set by Draper City for
home-based businesses. Our operation is thoughtfully aligned with community norms, ensuring a
harmonious presence within our neighborhood. We are open to further dialogue and welcome any
inquiries or suggestions from the city and our neighbors.
Response to DCMC Sec on 9-34-040 Criteria for Simply Obsessed DBA Raining Hot Coupons, LLC

Ownership (A):
Sarah Gibbons, residing at the dwelling located at 1935 Stag Hill Cir, Draper, UT 84020, is the
primary owner and operator of Simply Obsessed, a DBA of Raining Hot Coupons, LLC. This
business is owned and operated from the home, ensuring full compliance with the home
occupation ownership requirement.

Business License (B):
We acknowledge the requirement for obtaining and maintaining a business license with Draper
City. Upon approval of our conditional use permit, we are prepared to promptly comply with this
standard, ensuring our business is fully licensed for operation at this location.

Employees (C):
Our application requests approval for up to three (2) non-resident employees, in addition to the
resident business owners. We understand the parking concerns and are committed to ensuring all
vehicles associated with the business are accommodated on-site, without infringing on
neighborhood parking or violating city ordinances. We propose a detailed parking plan to manage
employee parking e iciently, ensuring compliance with residential parking requirements.

Inspec on (D):
Simply Obsessed/Raining Hot Coupons, LLC welcomes and will comply with all required
inspections by city o icials to assure adherence to ﬁre, building, plumbing, electrical, and all other
applicable codes. We understand these inspections are crucial for ensuring the safety and
compliance of our home-based business operations.

Inventory (E):
Our business operation includes managing inventory within the premises. We have revised our
storage and inventory practices to ensure we do not exceed the allowed 250 square feet of
inventory storage space on the premises and to comply with the restrictions against outside
storage. E icient inventory management practices have been implemented to minimize
neighborhood disruption and maintain the dwelling's primary residential use.

Modiﬁca on Of Structures Or Yards (F):
The operation of Simply Obsessed/Raining Hot Coupons, LLC is conﬁned to the interior of the
dwelling and attached garage, with no modiﬁcations made to the exterior of the home or yard that
would alter its residential appearance. We are committed to preserving the external residential
character of the property.

Nuisance (G):
We strictly prohibit the use of tools, items, equipment, or activities within the dwelling that could
cause o ensive or noxious emissions such as odor, smoke, gas, vibration, magnetic interference, or
noise, ensuring compliance with this standard.

Secondary Use (H):
The business operations of Simply Obsessed/Raining Hot Coupons, LLC are designed to be
incidental and secondary to the primary use of the dwelling for residential purposes. We have taken
measures to ensure our business does not disrupt the normal residential character of the
neighborhood, including limiting the business use area within the dwelling to comply with the
maximum twenty-ﬁve percent (25%) use limitation.

We believe our revised plans and commitments address the criteria outlined in DCMC Section 9-
34-040 and demonstrate our dedication to operating in harmony with the standards set forth by
Draper City for home occupations. We remain open to further dialogue and adjustments as
required to meet the city’s expectations and regulations.
Simply Obsessed DBA Raining Hot Coupons, LLC could respond to each of the 19 sta concerns:

   1. Ownership: Sarah Gibbons, the business owner, lives in the home from which the business
      operates, ensuring personal involvement and oversight.

   2. Business License: We are committed to obtaining and maintaining a business license from
      Draper City as required for legal operation.

   3. Employees: We propose to adjust our request to comply with city regulations, seeking
      permission for two non-resident employees with a plan to manage parking e iciently.

   4. Inspec on: We welcome and will facilitate any necessary inspections by city o icials to
      ensure compliance with all relevant codes.

   5. Inventory: Our inventory storage has been reorganized to not exceed the permitted space
      within our home and no outside storage will be used.

   6. Home Look and Use: The business operations are discreet, with no impact on the home's
      appearance or primary use as a residence.

   7. Nuisance: We operate with minimal noise and no emissions, ensuring no nuisance to our
      neighbors.

   8. Residen al Character: Our business activities are designed to be secondary to our home’s
      primary use, preserving the residential character of the neighborhood.

   9. Parking: We have designated parking for employees within our property to prevent any
      inconvenience to our neighbors.

   10. Traﬃc and Deliveries: Our business model minimizes tra ic and delivery impacts, with
       schedules aligned to avoid peak neighborhood activity times.

   11. Building Use: A deﬁned portion of our home is used for the business, strictly adhering to the
       city’s regulations on home-based business operations.

   12. Visible Changes: There are no visible signs from the exterior that a business operates within
       our home.

   13. Outside Ac vi es: All business activities are conﬁned to the interior of our home; the yard
       remains for personal use only.

   14. Noise Control: Our operations do not involve noisy equipment, ensuring peace and
       tranquility within the neighborhood.

   15. Space for Living: The majority of our home is dedicated to personal living space, with a
       small, compliant portion used for business operations.

   16. Parking Space Requirements: We've adjusted our storage to ensure two parking spaces in the
       garage are available for personal vehicle use, as per city regulations.

   17. Parking Plan Needed: A detailed parking plan has been developed to ensure all parking
       needs are met on-site, aligning with city standards.
18. Delivery Size and Parking: Deliveries are managed to ensure only small, light-duty vehicles
    are used, minimizing neighborhood disruption.

19. Trash Management: Our waste management strategy ensures that the business does not
    excessively contribute to local waste services, with separate disposal arrangements for
    business-generated waste.
           EXHIBIT Q
COUNTY ASSESSOR DATA AND SKETCH
SLCo ---> Assessor ---> Parcel Search ---> Valuation Summary ---> Printable Version
Parcel                             28-33-226-047-0000                 Value History
Owner              INGLE, MOLLY; JT INGLE, ABHIJIT; JT
                                                                             Record   Land Value    Building Value      Market Value    Tax Rate
Address                         1935 E STAG HILL CIR
Total Acreage                                      0.46               2023             $ 438,400       $ 1,057,600      $ 1,496,000
Above Ground sqft.                                2138
Property Type                       111 - SNGL FAM RES                2022   1         $ 429,800          $ 935,900     $ 1,365,700 .0099270
Tax District                                         55               2021   1         $ 358,200          $ 535,800       $ 894,000 .0116210
                                                                      2020   1         $ 355,600          $ 476,200       $ 831,800 .0122590
                                                                      2019   1         $ 353,100          $ 530,800       $ 883,900 .0125460
                                                                      2018   1         $ 312,500          $ 537,200       $ 849,700 .0122760




Land Record                                                                                                                    28-33-226-047-0000
Record ID 1                         Influence Effect                   Lot Shape            REGULAR        Traffic                     LIGHT
Lot Use            RESIDENTIAL      Assmt. Class     RES-PRIMARY       Lot Location        APPROACH        Traffic Influence        TYPICAL
Lot Type           PRIMARY-LOT      Lot Depth                          Neighborhood                2       Street type           CUL-DE-SAC
Land Class                          Acres                    0.46      Nbhd Type              STATIC       Street Finish              PAVED
Income Flag                         Zone                     1122      Nbhd Effect           TYPICAL       Curb Gutter                     Y
Seasonal use                   N    Sewer                 PUBLIC       Topography            ROLLING       Sidewalk                        Y
Influence Type                      Number Lots                 1

Residence Record                                                                                                         28-33-226-047-0000
Building Style              RN      Full Baths                    4    Interior Condition   EXCELLENT     Main Floor Area          2138
Assessment Classification     P     3/4 Baths                     1    Exterior Condition VERY-GOOD       Upper Floor Area
Exterior Wall Type     STUCCO       Half Baths                         Overall Condition VERY-GOOD        Finished Attic Area
Roofing          ASPHALT-SHNG       Number of Kitchens            1    Visual Appeal          AVERAGE     Above Ground Area        2138
Central AC         YES-FA DUCT      Finished Fire places          2    Maintenance             MINIMUM    Basement Area            2414
Heating           PRIMRY-CNTRL      Year Built                 2005    Conformity         EQUAL-IMPRVD    Finished Basement Area 2400
Owner Occupied                      Effective Year Built       2019    Livability             AVERAGE     Finished Basement Grade     G
Number of Stories           1.0     Interior Grade       VERY-GOOD     Primary Kitchen QualityMODERN      Carport Surface Area
Total Rooms                  13     Exterior Grade       VERY-GOOD     Primary Bath Quality MODERN        Attached Garage S. Area 1593
Bedrooms                      5     Overall Grade        VERY-GOOD     Percent Complete             100   Builtin Garage S. Area
                                                                                                          Basement Garage S. Area
                                                                                                   Above Grade Area + Basement Area: 4552

Legal Description                                                                                                        28-33-226-047-0000
 LOT 9, HUNTER RIDGE AT DRAPER. 9124-7184 9282-1022 9312-71309813-5928 9817-7563 9974-2441 10045-7128 10124-
 5861,5863 10147-5829 10818-1949 10891-5399
Click here for Classic Parcel Details Page Search Again?
This page shows the assessor's CAMA data, as it was, on May 22, 2023.
