MEMO
To: Planning Commission
From: Maryann Pickering, AICP
Date: 2024-11-21
Re: Public Hearing: 13081 S. Minuteman Drive Site Plan Amendment and Conditional Use
Permit Requests (Administrative Action)


Comments:


This application is a request for approval of a Site Plan Amendment and Conditional Use
Permit for approximately 2.93 acres located on the east side of Minuteman Drive, at
approximately 13081 S. Minuteman Drive. The property is currently zoned CR (Regional
Commercial). The applicant is requesting to modify the site layout, build a new office
building and obtain a conditional use permit for an outdoor storage yard.


Conditional Use
Findings for Approval:
  1. The proposal complies with the standards for approval found in DCMC Section 9-5-
     080(E) and potential negative impacts are mitigated through the imposition of
     reasonable conditions.

Findings for Denial:
  1. The proposal does not comply with all standards for approval found in DCMC
     Section 9-5-080(E) and potential negative impacts are not able to be sufficiently
     mitigated through the imposition of reasonable conditions.

Site Plan
Findings for approval:
  1. The site plan reflects the full development of the property.
  2. The site plan, with approval of the conditional use permit request, conforms to
      applicable standards set forth in ordinance, including but not limited to, building
      heights, setbacks, access points, parking, landscaping, and building materials.
  3. The proposed development plans meet the intent, goals, and objectives of the
      general plan and the purpose of the CR zoning district in which the site is located.
  4. The public facilities and services in the area are adequate to support the subject
      development, as required by engineering standards and specifications.
  5. The proposed development plans will comply with the engineering standards found
      in Titles 7, 8, 11, 12, 16, and 18 of the DCMC, including traffic, storm water drainage,
     and utilities concerns.

Findings for denial:
  1. The site plan does not conform to applicable standards set forth in ordinance,
     including but not limited to, building heights, setbacks, access points, parking,
     landscaping, and building materials.
  2. The proposed development plans do not meet the intent, goals, and objectives of
     the general plan or the purpose of the CR zoning district in which the site is located.
  3. The proposed development plans do not comply with one or more of the
     engineering standards found in Titles 7, 8, 11, 12, 16, and 18 of the DCMC.


ATTACHMENTS:

11-21-2024 PC Staff Report (13081 S MM) - Finalized.pdf
