MEMO
To: Planning Commission
From: Todd A. Draper
Date: 2024-12-12
Re: Action Item: Radnet Corporate Office Building Site Plan and building design deviations
Approval Extension Request (Administrative Action)


Comments:

The applicant is requesting approval of a 6-month extension of the December 7, 2023
approval of the Draper City Planning Commission for the Radnet Corporate Office
Building Site Plan and deviations from building design standards request.

The request letter from the applicant dated November 25, 2024, the staff report from
November 17, 2023, and the initial approval letter are also attached to this Memo. If
approved, approval of the Site Plan and Deviations to the building design would expire on
June 7, 2025.

Criteria for Approval: DCMC 9-5-090(J):
Expiration: Failure to obtain a land disturbance permit within one year of approval of any site
plan shall void the prior site plan approval. Prior to the expiration of the one-year period, an
applicant may submit a written request to the community development department for a site
plan extension of up to six (6) months. Approval of this extension may only be granted by the
zoning administrator or planning commission, whichever is the approval authority outlined in
this section, provided the applicant can meet the requirements for extension under section 9-5-
030 and demonstrate substantial action toward obtaining a land disturbance permit. If a site
plan expires, and an applicant wishes to continue with development of the site a new
application shall be required. If there have been no changes to applicable codes which would
necessitate updates to the previously approved plans, the applicant will be charged a new
application fee of fifty percent (50%) of the current fee outlined in the consolidated fee
schedule and the application shall be approved by the zoning administrator or planning
commission, whichever is the approval authority outlined in this section, in a public meeting as
an action item. If changes to the site plan are made by the applicant or are required due to
changes in applicable codes, the site plan shall be processed as a new application and is
subject to a new application fee at one hundred percent (100%) of the current fee established
in the consolidated fee schedule.

DCMC 9-5-030(J):
J. Extensions Of Time: Unless otherwise prohibited, upon written request and for good cause
shown, any decision making body or official having authority to grant approval of an
application may, without any notice or hearing, grant extensions of any time limit imposed by
this title on such application, its approval, or the applicant, provided a written request for such
extension has been received by the community development department prior to the date of
expiration, or provided the city staff or planning commission has initiated an extension prior to
the date of expiration. The total period of time granted by any such extension or extensions
shall not exceed half the length of the original time period.



Model Motions:
Sample Motion for Approval – I move that we approve the request for an Extension of
Approval for the Radnet Corporate Office Building Site Plan and Building Design
Deviations Request, as requested by Brent Harris, representing Harris Architecture,
Wendel and Trudy Gibby, and Radnet Properties, LLC, for application SPR-59-2021, based
on the following finding for approval:

Finding for Approval:
1. Good cause has been shown for the extension of the Planning Commission Approval.



Sample Motion for Denial – I move that we deny the request for an Extension of Approval
for the Radnet Corporate Office Building Site Plan and Building Design Deviations
Request, as requested by Brent Harris, representing Harris Architecture, Wendel and
Trudy Gibby, and Radnet Properties, LLC, for application SPR-59-2021, based on the
following finding for denial:

Finding for Denial:
1. Good cause has not been shown for the extension of the Planning Commission
Approval.


ATTACHMENTS:

Radnet_EXTENSION REQUEST.pdf
ATTACHMENTS:

SPR-59-2021 -Staff Report - Finalized.pdf
