MEMO
To: Planning Commission
From: Jennifer Jastremsky, AICP
Date: 2024-03-14
Re: Public Hearing: Windsor Mill Townhomes Site Plan and Deviation Request
(Administrative Action)


Comments:


This application is a request for approval of a Site Plan and Deviation for approximately 3.77 acres
located on the west side of 820 West, at approximately 11450 South 820 West. The property is
currently zoned RM2. The applicant is requesting that a Site Plan and Deviation be approved to
allow for the development of the currently vacant site with 30 townhomes.



This development has been approved twice before by the Planning Commission, once on February
21, 2019 and on December 17, 2020. The applicant failed to obtain a Land Disturbance Permit
before the applications expired due to health reasons. Both former applications were for the same
townhome layout being proposed with this application, but also included an office building to the
east of the townhomes. The current applicant is now requesting to phase the project and obtain
approval for the office building at a later date.



The applicant is also proposing to subdivide the property so that the townhomes and the office
phase are on two separate lots. The individual townhome units will be plated for individual
ownership. The Zoning Administrator will be the approval authority for the plat.




The findings are as follows:

For approval:




  1. The entire site shall be developed at one time unless a phased development plan is approved.
     This project Includes a phase 2 for an office building.
  2. A site plan shall conform to applicable standards set forth in this title, including but not
     limited to, building heights, setbacks, access points, parking, landscaping, and building
     materials.
  3. The proposed development plans meet the intent, goals, and objectives of the general plan
     and the purpose of the zone district in which the site is located.
  4. The public facilities and services in the area are adequate to support the subject
     development, as required by engineering standards and specifications.
  5. The proposed development plans comply with the engineering standards found in Titles 7, 8,
     11, 12, 16, and 18 of this code, including traffic, storm water drainage, and utilities concerns.
  6. The proposed architectural materials represents a predominant building materials that exists
      in the project vicinity and the use of the materials will uphold the existing character and style
      of the given neighborhood.



For denial:




  1. The proposed architectural materials do not represent predominant building materials that
      exists in the project vicinity and the use of the materials will not uphold the existing character
      and style of the given neighborhood.



ATTACHMENTS:

Windsor Mill TH Site and Deviation Staff Report -PC 3-14-24 Combined.pdf
