U.S. Department                              REGION VIII               1961 Stout Street
                                             Colorado, Montana,        Suite 13301
of Transportation                            North Dakota,             Denver, Colorado 80294
Federal Transit                              South Dakota,             (303) 362-2400 (voice)
                                             Utah and Wyoming
Administration


September 6, 2024

Chris Merritt, PhD                                Chris Hansen
State Historic Preservation Officer (SHPO)        Deputy SHPO – Compliance Preservation
Utah Division of State History                    Utah Division of State History
3760 S. Highland Dr.                              3760 S. Highland Dr.
Salt Lake City, Utah 84106                        Salt Lake City, Utah 84106

Re:     Point of the Mountain Transit Project – Case No. 23-1631
        Section 106 Consultation – Determination of Eligibility and Finding of Effects and Section
        4(f) Findings

Dear Dr. Merritt and Mr. Hansen:

The Federal Transit Administration (FTA), in coordination with the Utah Department of Transportation
(UDOT) and the Utah Transit Authority (UTA), notified your office on July 20, 2023, of our initiation of
studies for the Point of the Mountain Transit (POM) Project and consulted with you regarding the area of
potential effects (APE) for the project. As explained in the initial consultation (July 20, 2023), the POM
Project is a proposed high-capacity transit line through the Point of the Mountain area, spanning Salt Lake
and Utah Counties.

Because federal funding is anticipated, the POM Project is required to comply with the National
Environmental Policy Act (NEPA), and a NEPA evaluation is being conducted. In addition, the proposed
project constitutes an undertaking and is subject to review under Section 106 of the National Historic
Preservation Act (NHPA) of 1966 as amended. The undertaking is also subject to Section 4(f) of the
Department of Transportation Act of 1966, 23 United States Code (USC) § 138 (as amended), and 49
USC § 303 (as amended) (hereafter referred to as Section 4(f)).

UDOT and UTA have selected Light Rail (LRT) as the Preferred Alternative. FTA requests your review
and concurrence with the eligibility and effects for the POM Project Preferred Alternative, described
further below.

In addition to consultation with your office, consultation has occurred with federally recognized Native
American tribes of the state of Utah. One Tribe, the Paiute Indian Tribe of Utah, requested further
consultation regarding the project. Other historic consulting parties that have been notified of the project
include Preservation Utah, Utah Professional Archaeological Council, and the Cities of Draper, Bluffdale
and Lehi.

Description of the Proposed Undertaking
The POM Project is a proposed 10-mile-long, high-capacity transit line extending between the cities of
Draper and Lehi, with up to 11 stations and other supporting facilities, including an operations and
maintenance facility. The Preferred Alternative is shown on Figure 1, attached.

                                                     1
The Preferred Alternative would begin at the FrontRunner Draper Station, with a new station platform
located adjacent to the existing transit center. Traveling south, a double track would parallel the existing
FrontRunner tracks in exclusive transitway before crossing into the center of Vista Station Boulevard and
under the existing FrontRunner and Union Pacific tracks. Vista Station Boulevard would be rebuilt and
widened to accommodate the center-running alignment, with a general-purpose traffic lane in each
direction. The Preferred Alternative would continue south on Vista Station Boulevard in proposed transit-
only, center running lanes; continuing south through the intersection at 13490 South and 600 West; and
serving a potential future Vista Boulevard Station. After crossing through the existing parking lot, the
alignment would enter an exclusive transitway to cross over Bangerter Highway on a new, grade-
separated transit-only structure.

After crossing Bangerter Highway, the Preferred Alternative would touch down in the future The Point
development. The alignment in The Point would be refined in coordination with development plans at
The Point. The Preferred Alternative would travel through The Point in a proposed double track in a side-
running or exclusive transitway configuration with limited vehicular access points, serving two proposed
stations within The Point before crossing Interstate 15 (I-15) on a new grade-separated, transit-only
structure.

After crossing to the east side of I-15, the Preferred Alternative would enter the separated UTA-owned
corridor and travel south to serve the Highline and Gravel Pit stations in Draper and the North Lehi, Lehi
(Traverse Mountain), and South Triumph stations in Lehi. Along the UTA-owned corridor, the alignment
would cross over Highland Drive, Marion Vista Drive, Traverse Mountain Boulevard, Adobe Way, State
Route 92, and South Triumph Boulevard on grade-separated transit-only structures. Highland Drive,
Marion Vista Drive, and Adobe Way have existing grade-separated railroad bridges spanning the existing
roadways, which would be utilized by the new alignment. At Highland Drive, the Preferred Alternative
would travel over an existing grade-separated structure that is currently used for the Porter Rockwell
Trail, which would be relocated to a new grade-separated structure (potentially constructed separately
from this Project). From the I-15 grade-separated crossing to South Triumph Station, the alignment would
travel within proposed exclusive, double-tracked transitway, with at-grade intersection crossings at three
driveways as well as Air Park Road. These crossings are assumed to be gated, and roadway widening to
accommodate the truck turning movements has been included in the project.

The Preferred Alternative would terminate at the proposed South Triumph Station, and a local bus
connection would be made to FrontRunner Lehi Station serving a potential station at Ashton Boulevard
via an exclusive bus lane. Triumph Boulevard would be widened to include outside running business
access and transit-only lanes west of I-15. Ashton Boulevard would retain the same public right-of-way
width, and the center turn lane plus parking/bike facilities would be relocated to accommodate the center
running transit-only lanes.

For the Preferred Alternative, a full-service operations and maintenance facility (OMF) would be located
on a 10.75-acre, UTA-owned parcel in Draper, between Minuteman Drive and Marion Vista Boulevard
and adjacent to the existing rail corridor. Access to the site would be from Marion Vista Boulevard
(referred to as the Marion Vista facility). The site layout includes the necessary trackwork to access the
OMF site, sufficient capacity for train layover of the full fleet outside of the facility, and 45 parking stalls
for employees. The services provided would include light service and inspection, such as cleaning and
sanding; a preventative maintenance program; and corrective maintenance, such as repairs and wheel
truing. Adding a new full-service facility in the study area in Draper would duplicate existing UTA Light
Rail Service Centers in Midvale and Jordan River, avoiding span of service constraints that preclude late
night and early morning service on the UTA North-South Trunk Line. In addition, the site would require
relocation of the existing Porter Rockwell trail, due to a conflict with the track connections to the new

                                                       2
LRT OMF site. In addition to vehicle maintenance, this facility would provide vehicle layover/storage,
dispatch, employee welfare, and maintenance-of-way support facilities.

Identification of Historic Properties and Determination of Eligibility
The APE shown in Figure 2, attached, was surveyed by Certus Environmental Solutions (Certus) in
September 2022 (A Cultural Resource Assessment for the Utah Transit Authority’s Point of the Mountain
Transit Study, Salt Lake and Utah Counties, Utah, Certus Environmental Solutions 2023 – attached),
through a combination of intensive-level and reconnaissance-level survey methods to identify
archaeological resources in the APE. The intensive-level survey methods included transect spacing no
greater than 15 meters (50 feet). The reconnaissance-level methods involved a combination of wider
transect spacing, “windshield” review, and file search review on lands not fully accessible for physical
inspection. This survey occurred prior to formal concurrence on the APE, but no additional survey was
required because the APE that was surveyed was ultimately approved.

No historical structures (buildings, bridges, or other non-archeological sites 45-years old or older) were
identified in the APE. Ten historical archaeological sites, which include canals and railroads, were
identified within the APE. Five of the historical archaeological sites are eligible for listing on the NRHP
under Criterion A for their association with events that have made a significant contribution to the broad
patterns of our history. All the sites identified in the APE have been previously recorded, whether in part
or in whole. The historic and cultural resources within the APE and FTA’s associated eligibility
determination for each are identified in Table 1 and shown on Figures 3 and 4, attached.

                  Table 1. Summary of Historic and Cultural Resources Within the APE*

    Site
   Number                                  Name/Description                         Eligibility Determination
  42SL214           Jordan and Salt Lake City Canal                           Eligible (contributing segments) under
                                                                              Criterion A
  42SL290           East Jordan Canal                                         Eligible (contributing segments) under
                                                                              Criterion A
  42SL293           Denver and Rio Grande Western Railroad                    Eligible (contributing segments) under
                                                                              Criterion A
  42SL344           Union Pacific/Utah Southern Railroad                      Eligible under Criterion A
  42UT1029
  42SL350           Draper Irrigation Canal                                   Not Eligible
  42UT946           Utah Lake Distributing Canal                              Not Eligible
  42UT947           Provo Reservoir Canal/Murdoch Ditch                       Eligible (noncontributing segments)
                                                                              under Criterion A
  42UT973           Bull River Ditch                                          Not Eligible
  42UT974           Fox Ditch                                                 Not Eligible
  42UT1583          Historical road (Point of the Mountain Road)              Not Eligible
 *For more detail on properties, see attached cultural resource assessment.

In addition to the sites listed above, the historical Utah State Prison site is also located within the APE but
was not accessible for survey. However, the historical resources on the property have been addressed by
the Utah SHPO as part of the state’s demolition and planned redevelopment of the facility. The POM
Project and any associated ground disturbance would occur within the new transit-only right-of-way
planned as part of the redevelopment of that property and would not be directly responsible for impacts to
any of the cultural resources associated with that facility, since demolition of the site already occurred and

                                                                  3
the one remaining historical feature of the prison property (a chapel) is located outside the APE.
Therefore, the prison site is not included as a resource requiring consultation for the POM Project and is
not discussed further.

Assessment of Effect and Section 4(f) Use
FTA has evaluated the anticipated impacts of the POM Project on the historic archaeological resources
identified within the APE. The findings of effect are discussed in more detail below.

A summary of the effects findings is included in Table 2.


                                          Table 2. Summary of Effects

   Site               Name/Description                                      Finding of Effect
  Number
 42SL214         Jordan & Salt Lake City Canal       No Adverse Effect:

                                                     Up to 100 feet of original open canal channel altered to
                                                     accommodate new elevated structure (e.g., bridge) or extended box
                                                     culvert. This length is an extremely small portion of the overall 28-
                                                     mile-long canal channel and would not impinge upon the eligibility
                                                     of the site.
 42SL290         East Jordan Canal                   No Adverse Effect:

                                                     A new elevated crossing would extend over the canal but would not
                                                     alter the channel or otherwise physically impact the canal. The
                                                     project would introduce new visual elements, but would not
                                                     diminish the canal’s integrity, impact any contributing features, or
                                                     impair the characteristics of the 16-mile-long site that render it
                                                     eligible for the National Register.
 42SL293          Denver and Rio Grande              No Historic Properties Affected:
                  Western Railroad
                                                     LRT would run below previously altered tracks that are located on
                                                     an existing elevated structure.
 42SL344         Union Pacific/Utah Southern         Adverse Effect.
 42UT1029        Railroad
                                                     Historical grade would be altered through grading and fill,
                                                     placement of structures, and removal of existing historical features
                                                     (e.g., tracks) to accommodate new LRT track and station locations.
 42UT947         Provo Reservoir                     No Adverse Effect:
                 Canal/Murdock Ditch
                                                     Canal alignment would be spanned by new track, but the canal
                                                     segment is noncontributing due to having been piped underground
                                                     in the modern era.


No Adverse Effect & No Historic Properties Affected

The POM Project will not result in adverse effects to Site 42SL214, Jordan & SLC Canal, and Site
42SL290, East Jordan Canal, which are both historic archaeological resources. For the East Jordan Canal,
the project would travel over the canal on a free-standing crossing and would not alter the channel or
otherwise physically impact the canal. The POM Project would introduce new visual elements, but would


                                                       4
not diminish the canal’s integrity, impact any contributing features, or impair the characteristics of the 16-
mile-long site that render it eligible for the National Register.

For the Jordan & SLC Canal, the POM Project would require the alteration of approximately 100 feet of
the original open canal channel to accommodate a new elevated structure or extended box culvert.
Approximately 11.4 miles of the 28-30 mile long canal has been piped underground and most, if not all,
of the remaining 18.6 miles that remain open are lined with concrete. Approximately 2.1 miles of the
canal has been realigned, including the portion of the site immediately east of the proposed POM crossing
just east of 600 W and 13800 S. The site has suffered some decline in integrity of design due to the
replacement of historical features along with piping and realigning. Where the canal channel has been
heavily piped, the site essentially lacks integrity of all elements. The integrity of setting and feeling has
decreased along the entire canal due to non-agricultural land development. The scale and integrity of the
canal as a whole is discussed further in the attached Jordan & Salt Lake City Canal – Desktop Review
(Certus Environmental Solutions, 2024).

The POM Project will not affect Site 42SL293, Denver and Rio Grande Western Railroad, because the
Preferred Alternative would not physically change the resource or affect the setting; the Preferred
Alternative would run within the existing right-of-way, below previously altered tracks that are located on
an existing elevated structure. Last, the project would also not adversely affect the historic archaeological
resources Site 42UT947, Provo Reservoir/Murdock Ditch, which would be spanned by new track over a
noncontributing canal segment that has been piped underground. The Preferred Alternative would pierce
the canal site boundary but would not alter the character defining features.

Based on the assessment of effects under Section 106 described above, corresponding findings of use
have been made under Section 4(f). FTA finds that the POM Project would result in a use with de
minimis impact under Section 4(f) of sites 42SL214, 42SL290, and 42UT947 based on the findings of no
adverse effect as discussed above. In addition, based on the finding of no historic properties affected
under Section 106 for site 42SL293, FTA finds there would be no use of this property.

Adverse Effect and Section 4(f) Exemption

FTA has determined that the POM Project would result in an adverse effect on one NRHP-eligible
archaeological resource: Site 42SL344/42UT1029, Union Pacific/Utah Southern Railroad. The resource is
a historic railroad corridor that was formerly in operation but is now partially used as a multiuse trail.
Portions of the Union Pacific/Utah Southern Railroad resource are illustrated on Figure 5, Figure 6, and
Figure 7.




                                                      5
Figure 5:                                                   Figure 6:




 42UT1029; Overview of segment near north                   42UT1029; intact tracks in cut area of rail
 end (Point of the Mountain); looking                       corridor; looking south
 southeast


Figure 7:




42UT1029; Intact and demolished track
segments near Cabelas; looking south

The Union Pacific/Utah Southern Railroad is eligible for the NRHP based on Criterion A, association
with events that have made a significant contribution to the broad patterns of our history The Preferred
Alternative would require grading and fill, placement of structures, and the removal of existing historical
features (e.g., tracks) along a substantial portion of the historic railroad corridor, which FTA has
determined to be an adverse effect.

FTA finds that the Union Pacific/Utah Southern Railroad resource is an exception to the requirements for
Section 4(f) approval under Section 11502 of the Fixing America’s Surface Transportation Act (23 U.S.C.
138(f) and 49 U.S.C. 303(h)), as implemented through 23 CFR §774.13(a), which exempts railroad and
rail transit lines that are in use or that were historically used for transportation of goods or passengers
from Section 4(f) review regardless of whether the railroad or rail transit line is listed on or is eligible for
listing on the NRHP.




                                                       6
Summary of Findings
In conclusion, FTA finds that the POM Project would have an adverse effect under Section 106 on Site
42SL344/42UT1029, Union Pacific/Utah Southern Railroad, which is a historic archaeological resource.
In addition, the POM Project would have a Section 4(f) de minimis use of three historic archaeological
resources (42SL214, 42SL290, and 42UT947) because there are no adverse effects to these historic
properties under Section 106; and no use of site 42SL293 under Section 4(f) as the historic property will
not be affected under Section 106.

FTA is considering mitigation to resolve the adverse effect and would like to further discuss the following
mitigation option with your office, consulting parties and Tribes who are interested in further consultation
on the project:
        •   On-site plaque with onsite QR code, directing the reader to a story map conveying
            information regarding the Union Pacific/Utah Southern Railroad (Site 42SL344/42UT1029)

FTA requests SHPO review and concurrence with the above determinations of eligibility and findings of
effect. Please provide your concurrence via email to robyn.kullas@dot.gov. We look forward to
discussing mitigation options with your office and other interested consulting parties for development of a
Memorandum of Agreement (MOA). If you have any questions or would like more information, please
contact Robyn Kullas in my office at 303-362-2389.


Sincerely
             Digitally signed by
DAVID L   DAVID L BECKHOUSE
BECKHOUSE Date: 2024.09.06
          14:52:18 -06'00'

Cindy Terwilliger
Regional Administrator

Enclosures:
   Figure 1 Preferred Alternative (LRT)
   Figure 2 Area of Potential Effect
   Figures 3 and 4 Historic and Cultural Resources Within the APE
   A Cultural Resource Assessment for the Utah Transit Authority’s Point of the Mountain Transit
   Study, Salt Lake and Utah Counties, Utah, Certus Environmental Solutions 2023
   Jordan & Salt Lake City Canal – Desktop Review, Certus Environmental Solutions 2024

    cc: Patti Garver, Utah Transit Authority




                                                     7
