MEMO
To: City Council
From: Travis DeJong
Date: 2024-08-20
Re: Public Hearing: Providing Local Consent for a Bar Establishment License for
BTDR LLC dba Bout Time Pub & Grub Draper.


Comments:

BTDR LLC dba Bout Time Pub & Grub Draper located at 1194 E Draper Pkwy is seeking
Local Consent for a Bar Establishment license. They have provided the following:

- Liquor liability insurance.
- Bond payable to the Department of Alcoholic Beverage Services.
- Floor map showing where alcohol is to be served, stored, and consumed.
- Sales tax license.
- A background check conducted by the Bureau of Criminal Identification.

BTDR LLC dba Bout Time Pub & Grub Draper has applied for a commercial business
license numbered CBL-1495-2024 and plans on opening October 1, 2024.

The findings for Local Consent approval are as follows:

DCMC 6-4-040 requires that a bar establishment be at least six hundred feet (600') away
from any community location (schools, churches, public libraries, public playgrounds, and
public parks) measured by the shortest pedestrian route taken from the nearest patron
entrance of the outlet to the property boundary of the community location.

BTDR LLC dba Bout Time Pub & Grub Draper has met this requirement.

DCMC 6-4-040 requires that a beer establishment be at least two hundred feet (200')
away from any community location (schools, churches, public libraries, public
playgrounds, and public parks) measured in a straight line from the nearest patron
entrance of the outlet to the property boundary of the community location.

The property that will be occupied by BTDR LLC dba Bout Time Pub & Grub Draper, as
currently constructed, does not meet this requirement. BTDR LLC dba Bout Time Pub &
Grub Draper has a pending building permit with Draper City (numbered REMD-1263-
2024) which details plans to move the patron entrance to the east side of the building
from its current location on the northwest corner. Once the door is moved, BTDR LLC dba
Bout Time Pub & Grub Draper will meet the 200 feet straight line measurement
requirement.

Staff is recommending a condition of approval on this license as follows:
1. The applicant shall obtain the requested building permit to relocate the front door,
construct the entryway modification, and obtain the occupancy permit for the
modifications before selling any alcohol.

DCMC 6-4-050 states that the total number of bar establishment licenses granted by the
city shall not exceed eight (8), one of which must be located within a full service hotel.
Draper City currently has six (6) bar establishments. Granting Local Consent to BTDR LLC
dba Bout Time Pub & Grub Draper would bring the total number of bar establishments in
Draper City to seven (7). Currently, none of these bar establishments sit within a full
service hotel.




ATTACHMENTS:

Bond.pdf
ATTACHMENTS:

Certificate of Insurance.pdf
ATTACHMENTS:

Floor Plan.pdf
ATTACHMENTS:

Sales Tax License.pdf
ATTACHMENTS:

BTDR_LLC_Local_Consent_PP.pptx
