MEMO
To: Planning Commission
From: Tevai Haunga
Date: 2024-02-08
Re: Public Hearing: Raining Hot Coupons, LLC Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit
(Administrative Action)


Comments:


This application is a request for approval of a Home Occupation for approximately 0.46
acres located at approximately 1935 E. Stag Hill Circle (Exhibit B & C). The property is
zoned RA2. The applicants are requesting that a Home Occupation Conditional Use
Permit be approved to allow for a limited assembly and repair home based business with
online sales and three (3) non-residential, non- family employees.



The findings for approval as are follows:



  1. Reasonable mitigation measures can be placed on the conditional use, through the
     included conditions, to alleviate anticipated detrimental effects, including parking.
  2. The proposed use with the imposition of the included conditions, will not, under the
     circumstances of the particular case, be detrimental to the health, safety, or general
     welfare of persons residing or working in the vicinity, or injurious to property or
     improvements in the vicinity.
  3. The proposed use, with the imposition of the included conditions, will comply with
     applicable regulations and conditions specified in ordinance and will comply with
     the intent of the City General Plan.



The findings for denial as are follows:



  1. The existing and anticipated detrimental effects of the business have not been
     sufficiently addressed by the proposal and are not able to be mitigated through the
     imposition of mitigation measures that are reasonable.
  2. The proposed use is not in harmony with the objectives and requirements of the
     city's general plan and will be detrimental to the health, safety, or general welfare of
     persons residing or working in the vicinity, or injurious to property or improvements
     in the vicinity.
  3. The proposed use does not comply with applicable regulations and conditions
     specified in ordinance or does not comply with the intent of the City General Plan.
  4. The specific property is not suitable for the magnitude of the proposed use.


ATTACHMENTS:

Raining Hot Coupons Final PEAK.pdf
