    CANYONS SCHOOL DISTRICT AND DRAPER CITY SCHOOL RESOURCE OFFICER
                 INTERLOCAL COOPERATION AGREEMENT

       THIS INTERLOCAL COOPERATION AGREEMENT (the “Agreement”) is made and
entered into on ___ August, 2024, by and between the BOARD OF EDUCATION OF CANYONS
SCHOOL DISTRICT (the "School District"), a political subdivision of the State of Utah, 9361 S.
300 E., Sandy, Utah, 84070, and DRAPER CITY (the "City") a political subdivision of the State of
Utah, 1020 East Pioneer Road, Draper, Utah, 84020.

                                       WITNESSETH

       WHEREAS, pursuant to the provisions of the Utah Interlocal Cooperation Act, Utah Code
Annotated, Section 11-13-101, et seq., as amended, public agencies, including political
subdivisions of the State of Utah as defined therein, are authorized to enter into mutually
advantageous agreements for joint or cooperative action;

        WHEREAS, the School District and City (collectively referred to as “Parties”), through their
respective governing bodies, have voluntarily determined that the interests and welfare of the
public within their respective jurisdictions will best be served by this Agreement to provide for joint
and cooperative action in regards to having a School Resource Officer (“SRO”) serve at Corner
Canyon High School and Draper Park Middle School, as well as in elementary schools, including
Draper Elementary School, Oak Hollow Elementary School, and Willow Springs Elementary
School, in Draper, Utah;

         WHEREAS, the Parties intend to cooperate to provide for the health, safety and welfare
of School District students, personnel, volunteers, and authorized visitors; maintain a safe and
secure environment in School District facilities and at School District programs by the Parties
acting swiftly and cooperatively when responding to major disruptions and criminal offenses at
school; report serious crimes that occur on campus to ensure cooperation with law enforcement
officials in their investigation; and to foster educational programs and activities that will increase
student knowledge of and respect for the rule of law and the function of law enforcement agencies;
to improve school climate; and encourage SROs to attend extra-curricular activities held at
schools, when possible, such as athletic events, PTA meetings, plays, and concerts.

        WHEREAS, the governing bodies of the School District and the City have by resolution or
motion agreed to adopt this Agreement to provide for the joint and cooperative action contained
herein; and

       WHEREAS, this Agreement shall replace and supersede any agreements or memoranda
of understanding approved and executed previously by the School District and the City regarding
SROs.

       NOW, THEREFORE, be it mutually covenanted and agreed as follows, each of the parties
accepting as consideration for this Agreement the mutual promises and agreements of the other:

                                       SECTION ONE
                               EFFECTIVE DATE AND DURATION

       This Interlocal Cooperation Agreement shall be effective as of 1 July 2024, and shall
continue for a period of up to five (5) July 1 – June 30 fiscal years thereafter, terminating on 30
June 2029 unless sooner terminated as provided herein. However, should either party encounter
                                             Page 1 of 14
budgetary constraints that make the continuation of this agreement impractical, then either party
may cancel this agreement upon sixty (60) days notice to the other. Following the initial five-year
term, this agreement shall be automatically renewed for successive one-year periods unless
either party requests termination or modification of this agreement. This request will be made in
writing.

                                       SECTION TWO
                                   ADMINISTRATIVE ENTITY

        The City and the School District do not contemplate nor intend to establish a separate
legal entity under their terms of this Agreement.

                                        SECTION THREE
                                          PURPOSE

       This Agreement is established for the purpose of jointly providing for two (2) SROs to
serve at Corner Canyon High School and Draper Park Middle School, as well as elementary
schools in Draper, Utah (“SRO Partnership”).

                                       SECTION FOUR
                                    MANNER OF FINANCING

        This Agreement and the matters contemplated herein shall not receive separate financing,
nor shall a separate budget be required. Each party shall be responsible for its own obligations
under this Agreement. The City shall budget and be responsible for all payments related to the
employment of the SRO. The City shall be responsible for all other costs and matters associated
with employing and maintaining the SROs, including, but not limited to, salaries, payroll taxes,
workers compensation insurance, benefits, automobile, uniforms, training, equipment, etc. The
City shall send an invoice to the School District on an annual basis following the completion of
the school year for payment of the services of the SROs as agreed to in writing between the
School District and City, which total cost to the School District is seventy five thousand dollars
($75,000.00) per SRO for the first and second years of this agreement; seventy seven thousand
five hundred dollars ($77,500.00) per SRO for the third year of this agreement; and eighty
thousand dollars ($80,000.00) per SRO for the remaining two years of this agreement. The
invoice shall be paid within thirty (30) days of receipt by the School District. If this Agreement is
terminated during the budget year, the City and the School District agree to divide the costs
associated with the payment of the services of the SROs as on a pro-rata basis depending upon
the length of the year remaining.

                                         SECTION FIVE
                                        ADMINISTRATOR

        Pursuant to Utah Code Annotated, Section 11-13-101, et seq., the parties agree that City
shall act as administrator responsible for this Agreement. This Agreement does not anticipate
nor provide for any organizational changes in the City or the School District.

                                         SECTION SIX
                                    FILING OF AGREEMENT




                                            Page 2 of 14
       A copy of this Agreement shall be placed on file in the Office of the City Recorder of the
City and with the Business Administrator of the School District and shall remain on file for public
inspection during the term of this Agreement.

                                     SECTION SEVEN
                              DESCRIPTION OF ARRANGEMENT

      I.   Police Department Obligations and Responsibilities:
              a. The SROs shall be employees of the City’s Police Department and shall be
                  subject to the administration, supervision and control of the Police Department.
              b. The City will pay the costs for the police officers to support the SRO partnership
                  after the School District has contributed its budgeted funds for SRO services,
                  subject to annual appropriation by the City. The City will furnish any equipment
                  that state law requires for the operation of the SRO Partnership or that the
                  Parties jointly agree is necessary for the success of the SRO Partnership.
              c. Scheduling, deployment, and supervision of SROs will be the responsibility of
                  the Police Department, taking into account the school year calendar of the
                  school where each SRO is assigned. The hours of SRO availability will be
                  during normal school hours while the school of assignment is in session.
              d. The SROs shall be subject to all personnel policies and practices of the City’s
                  Police Department except as such policies or practices may be modified by the
                  terms and conditions of this Agreement.
              e. The City’s Police Department, in its sole discretion, shall have the power and
                  authority to hire, remove/reassign, discipline, and discharge the SROs.
              f. As employees of the City’s Police Department, SROs will be subject to the
                  chain of command of the Police Department.
              g. If a principal determines an assigned SRO fails to meet agreed upon standards
                  of conduct, that principal should contact the District’s designated administrator,
                  currently Charisse Hilton, Student Engagement Program Administrator. The
                  District’s point of contact will arrange a meeting with the principal, the SRO’s
                  Supervisor, and the District’s designated administrator. The meeting will
                  provide an opportunity to discuss concerns and allow a reasonable amount of
                  time for the SRO’s Supervisor to remediate the issue. If the issues are not
                  resolved to the satisfaction of the District, the Superintendent or designee may
                  make a request to the Chief of Police to assign a different officer as the SRO
                  for that school. The Chief of Police shall make every reasonable effort to
                  expeditiously assign a new SRO for that school. The City reserves the right to
                  remove/re-assign any SRO along with notification given to the School District.
              h. Whenever possible, required training of SROs will occur during non-school
                  hours or on days when school is not in session.
              i. The City’s Chief of Police and the Superintendent, or their designees, shall
                  determine the working hours of the SROs supporting the SRO Partnership,
                  taking into account the school year calendar of the school where each SRO is
                  assigned. The hours of SRO availability will be during normal school hours
                  while the school of assignment is in session. Adjustments outside of these
                  regular hours shall be by mutual agreement in writing between the school
                  administration and the Police Department designee.
              j. Although SROs remain employees of the Police Department, SROs are
                  required to be on the campus of the school(s) they are assigned to unless
                  performing duties directly related to the Police Department. In such absences,

                                           Page 3 of 14
            the SRO shall attempt to inform the principal of such absence from the school
            prior to the event requiring them to be away from the school, but, if prior notice
            is not possible, then the SRO shall report and explain the absence as soon as
            possible afterwards to the principal.
         k. The Police Department will ensure that the SROs’ supervisor maintains
            communication with the schools’ administrators throughout the school year to
            evaluate the performance of services provided by the SROs.
         l. The Police Department will provide the School District with a “point of contact”
            to facilitate SRO Partnership communications. The Police Department’s point
            of contact for the schools shall be: ________________________________ .

II.   School District Obligations and Responsibilities:
         a. If a principal determines an assigned SRO fails to meet agreed upon standards
            of conduct, that principal should contact the District’s designated administrator,
            currently Charisse Hilton, Student Engagement Program Administrator. The
            District’s point of contact will arrange a meeting with the principal, the SRO’s
            Supervisor, and the District’s designated administrator. The meeting will
            provide an opportunity to discuss concerns and allow a reasonable amount of
            time for the SRO’s Supervisor to remediate the issue. If the issues are not
            resolved to the satisfaction of the District, the Superintendent or designee may
            make a request to the Chief of Police to assign a different officer as the SRO
            for that school. The Chief of Police shall make every reasonable effort to
            expeditiously assign a new SRO for that school. The City reserves the right to
            remove/re-assign any SRO along with notification given to the School District.
         b. In the unlikely event that a situation arises wherein the School District believes
            that a particular SRO’s presence at a School District facility or event constitutes
            a direct and immediate threat to the safety and well-being of the School District
            community, the School District may direct the SRO to leave the premises and
            not return until the School District has resolved the issue with either the Police
            Department or the particular SRO.
         c. The School District shall:
                   i. Provide the Police Department with a “point of contact” to facilitate SRO
                      Partnership communications. The School District’s current point of
                      contact for the schools shall be: Charisse Hilton, Program
                      Administrator;      phone       number        801-826-5140;          email:
                      Charisse.Hilton@canyonsdistrict.org
                  ii. Provide an office/storage or work space for the SRO’s materials and
                      personal effects.
                 iii. Provide students, classroom, equipment and supplies for classes
                      taught by SROs.
                iv. Provide time for school principals or designees and the assigned SROs
                      to attend SRO training.
                  v. Differentiate between disciplinary issues and criminal problems and
                      respond appropriately. School administrators will handle routine
                      administrative and school discipline (code of conduct) issues within the
                      school without involving the SRO in an enforcement capacity unless the
                      administrator determines that SRO involvement is necessary to
                      address a threat to the safety of students, staff and/or patrons. School
                      administrators are solely responsible for handling routine administrative
                      and school discipline (code of conduct) issues.

                                       Page 4 of 14
                vi. Document in Skyward or CSD’s Data Dashboard any tickets, citations,
                     or arrests that SROs have reported. When appropriate, discuss with
                     the SRO whether the underlying actions have any school-based
                     ramifications.
                vii. Arrange meetings with the SRO as needed by school administration.
               viii. Include SRO in school-wide trainings regarding school code of conduct
                     and discipline, de-escalation, Positive Behavioral Interventions and
                     Support (“PBIS”), and restorative justice provided to faculty.
                ix. Request SRO assistance immediately to address the criminal conduct
                     of persons other than students.
                 x. Assist with any SRO-initiated investigation and actions as needed.
                xi. Provide ongoing feedback to the Police Department designee for SRO
                     evaluation purposes.
                xii. Notify responding SRO if any student involved in an investigation or
                     incident requiring the assistance of the SRO has a disability and/or an
                     Individualized Education Program (“IEP”), and who therefore may
                     require special treatment or accommodations.
          d. School principals shall provide SROs or law enforcement with immediate
             access to students when the law enforcement officer or DCFS officer is
             investigating allegations of child abuse.

III.   Mutual Obligations and Responsibilities:
          a. The City’s Police Department and School District recognize the importance of
             ensuring that the SRO works collaboratively with school and district
             administrators. Therefore, selection of the SRO for each school will be made
             through a collaborative process involving the Police Department and School
             District. To be assigned an SRO, a police officer must meet the following
             requirements:
                   i. The SRO must be a commissioned officer and should have two or more
                      years of law enforcement experience;
                  ii. The SRO must possess an even temperament and be able to set a
                      good example for students; and
                 iii. The SRO must possess effective communications skills that will enable
                      the officer to function effectively within the school.
          b. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Police Department shall make the final
             decision as to the placement of each SRO.
          c. The City’s Police Department and School District are jointly responsible for
             ensuring that the training required under Utah Code Ann. §53G-8-703(g) is
             provided and completed by the SRO and principal, or designee, before the
             beginning of each academic year. The training should include:
                   i. Childhood and adolescent development and techniques for working
                      with youth;
                  ii. Responding age-appropriately to students;
                 iii. Working with disabled students;
                 iv. Techniques to de-escalate and resolve conflict;
                  v. Cultural awareness;
                 vi. Restorative justice practices;
                vii. Identifying a student exposed to violence or trauma and referring the
                      student to appropriate resources;
                viii. Student privacy rights;

                                     Page 5 of 14
                ix. Negative consequences and stigmatization associated with youth
                    involvement in the juvenile and criminal justice systems;
                 x. Strategies to reduce juvenile justice involvement; The role and
                    distinctions between an SRO and other school staff who help to keep a
                    school secure.
                xi. The standard response protocol and drills described in Section 53G-8-
                    803;
               xii. An overview of the agreement;
              xiii. Developing and supporting successful relationships with students; and
              xiv. Legal parameters of searching and questioning students on school
                    property
         d. Should additional training be required by law, ordinances, court orders or other
            contractual agreements, the Police Department and School District shall jointly
            ensure that such training is provided and occurs.
         e. The Parties’ point of contact shall meet twice each school year to discuss how
            the SRO Partnership is functioning in the various schools and any specific
            needs or concerns of the schools and SROs.

IV.   Duties of SROs
         a. One SRO will be assigned to the Corner Canyon High School to provide for
             and maintain a safe, healthy and productive learning environment, act as a
             positive role model to students, build partnerships, enhance community-
             policing activities, identify problems within the schools, develop problem
             solving strategies with school administrators and staff, and collaboratively
             develop a comprehensive school safety plan with school administrators, staff,
             and the District’s Risk Management, and work to create a cooperative,
             proactive, and problem-solving partnerships between law enforcement and the
             school.
         b. The high school’s SRO will teach a vocational law enforcement course each
             semester at the high school, if requested by the School District.
         c. One SRO will be assigned at Draper Park Middle School to provide for and
             maintain a safe, healthy and productive learning environment, act as a positive
             role model to students, build partnerships, enhance community-policing
             activities, identify problems within the schools, develop problem solving
             strategies with school administrators and staff, and collaboratively develop a
             comprehensive school safety plan with school administrators, staff, and the
             District’s Risk Management, work to create a cooperative, proactive, and
             problem-solving partnerships between law enforcement and the school, and
             respond to the needs of the elementary schools in Draper.
             The middle school SRO will provide and teach a curriculum, jointly selected by
             the Police Department and School District, at the district’s elementary schools
             in Draper: Draper, Willow Springs, and Oak Hollow Elementary schools. The
             SRO will teach classes at the middle school and elementary schools on a
             schedule determined by the school pursuant to guidelines developed by the
             School District.
         d. SROs are expected to be present at their designated school during school
             hours, on school calendar days, when students are in session at the school
             (See, Utah Code 53G-8-703 (e)(i)(B).
         e. The point of contact for the SRO at the school is the principal (See, Utah Code
             53G-8-703(e)(i)(C)).

                                     Page 6 of 14
f. SROs may provide additional presentations to the schools in safety and crime
   prevention, bullying, and may provide additional services to the School
   District’s Draper schools if available.
g. SRO shall notify the SRO’s immediate supervisor and the school principal or
   designee when absent from work due to illness, training, vacation or an agency
   emergency.
h. The SROs will report to the Detective Sergeant of the City’s Police Department.
   The Detective Sergeant will oversee the COPS Program. The SROs and
   Detective Sergeant will meet regularly to identify and problem solve issues at
   the schools. The Detective Sergeant will report to the Deputy Chief, who will
   report to the Chief of Police.
i. The City’s Police Department and SROs will work closely with the School
   District and the Community Prevention Advisory Team to improve the social
   and behavioral skills of students in order to maximize their ability to achieve
   academically and become successful, contributing citizens. Issues to be
   addressed include substance abuse, violence reduction, social skills and other
   areas of district and community concern.
j. The City’s Police Department and School District understand that the SRO may
   use any measures to secure school property as followed through established
   protocols of the City’s Police Department in the event of an emergency
   situation that requires lock-down.
k. The SRO Program will provide outreach to school administrators, parents,
   students, businesses and the community for stakeholder involvement in
   problem solving and solutions. It will enable the City’s Police Department and
   School District to form valuable partnerships and promote ongoing continued
   relationships that will benefit the community. The result of this collective effort
   will help the City’s Police Department to provide the best public safety services
   to better protect our citizens and support our officers in their law enforcement
   work.
l. The SRO shall initiate positive interactions with students in the classrooms and
   general areas of the school to promote the profession of police officers and be
   a positive role model, de-escalating incidents whenever possible.
m. The SRO will be responsible for enforcing the law, and is not responsible for
   handling routine school discipline issues. Infractions of school rules should be
   handled at the school level. SROs should be available to the school for advice,
   assistance and consultation. Absent a threat to an individual or public safety,
   student conduct that occurs on school property involving public order offenses
   including disorderly conduct, disturbance/disruption of schools or school
   activities; trespass; loitering; profanity; and fighting that does not involve
   physical injury or a weapon (as defined in Utah Code § 76-1-601(5)), shall be
   considered school discipline issues to be handled by school administrators. As
   to school policy and code violations, the SRO will take the student to the
   principal’s office for discipline to be taken by the school officials.
n. SRO shall confer with principal or designated school administrator to resolve
   issues related to offenses that are a minor violation of the law, and would not
   violate the law if the offense was committed by an adult. Such offenses may
   include use or possession of tobacco or alcohol.
o. The SRO will be involved in school discipline when it pertains to preventing a
   disruption that would, if ignored, place students, faculty, and staff at risk of
   harm, so the SRO will resolve the problem to preserve the safe school climate.

                            Page 7 of 14
p. The SRO will share information with the school’s administrator about persons
     and conditions pertaining to campus safety concerns.
q.   SRO shall notify parents and school administration as soon as possible upon
     removing a student from campus.
r.   If a student arrest is warranted at school, in a school vehicle, or at a school
     event, the SRO shall use the least disruptive and the least obtrusive manner
     reasonably available to conduct the arrest of the student. The SRO will be
     accompanied by a school principal or vice principal when arresting a student
     unless emergency circumstances require otherwise for the safety of the
     student, SRO, and/or others.
          i. An arrest of a student may occur on school property or at school
              sponsored activities when:
                 1. the SRO has probable cause to believe that the student has
                     been or is engaged in a crime that:
                         a. poses a real or immediate threat of injury to an individual
                             or the public;
                         b. constitutes property damage;
                         c. involves the possession or use of drugs, alcohol, or
                             weapons; or
                 2. the arrest is necessary to execute a warrant that cannot be
                     effectively executed outside of school hours.
s.   The SRO shall notify parents and the applicable school administrator as soon
     as possible when students are arrested or ticketed.
t.   The SRO shall question students in a manner and a time when it has the least
     impact on the student’s schooling so long as the delay in questioning does not
     interfere with the effectiveness of an investigation.
u.   School administrators shall make every effort possible to handle routine
     discipline (tardiness, loitering, use of profanity, dress code violations, and
     disruptive or disrespectful behaviors) within the school without involving the
     SRO in an enforcement capacity (issuing citations) unless it absolutely
     necessary or required by law.

v. The SRO will emphasize the use of restorative approaches to address negative
   student behavior.
w. An SRO may conduct investigatory stops or detentions of students on school
   property or at school sponsored events when the officer has reasonable
   suspicion to believe that the student has been, is, or is about to be engaged in
   the commission of a crime.
x. In any instance in which it becomes necessary for an SRO and/or a City’s
   Police Department Officer to detain, question or search a minor student on
   school property or at a school sponsored activity, the SRO and/or the City’s
   Police Department Officer will make reasonable efforts to ensure that an adult
   guardian or parent or school administrator is present, except in the case of
   emergency circumstances or investigations into allegations of child abuse.
y. School principals shall provide SROs or law enforcement with immediate
   access to students when the law enforcement officer or DCFS officer is
   investigating allegations of child abuse.
z. An SRO or the City’s Police Department officers may conduct an immediate,
   warrantless search or seizure under emergency conditions if there is probable
   cause to believe that delay in getting a warrant would result in the loss of

                              Page 8 of 14
    evidence, escape of the suspect, or harm to the police or public. Whenever
    practicable, SROs are encouraged to contact a supervisor to resolve questions
    regarding search and seizure issues prior to electing to take a course of action.
aa. The City’s Police Department officers are allowed to enter a District school,
    property or activity when a suspect retreats into the school, property, or activity
    and there is reasonable fear of escape, destruction of evidence, or injury to the
    police or public. Entry may also be made where a person’s health, welfare, or
    safety is concerned.
bb. If an SRO and/or the City’s police officers want to interview/question a student
    at school during school hours, and the purpose of the interview is criminal
    investigation and prosecution, the SRO and/or City’s police officers and
    principal, or designee, shall meet to identify or confirm the student sought to
    be interviewed, and identify or confirm the reason(s) for the interview. The
    principal shall provide immediate access for such an interview if the SRO/police
    officer:
          i. presents a warrant, subpoena, or legal order that cannot be effectively
             executed outside of school hours;
         ii. is investigating allegations of child abuse;
        iii. any person is in serious imminent danger;
        iv. there is a reasonable belief that evidence is about to be destroyed;
         v. SRO/officer needs to act promptly to prevent flight by a person
             suspected of serious criminal activity; or
        vi. SRO/officer is in pursuit of a suspect on school property.
cc. In the absence of any of the circumstances listed in (4)(aa), a principal may
    use his or her discretion to decide if such an interview should proceed,
    considering relevant factors, including, but not limited to:
          i. The age and maturity of the student. Absent compelling circumstances,
             the District presumes that students under the age of 14 should not be
             interviewed without the consent of their parents or guardians;
         ii. The extent of disruption to the student’s school day;
        iii. The nature of the proposed interview, i.e., whether the student is a non-
             suspect witness or a suspect.
                  1. Interviews of students by law enforcement personnel about
                     matters unrelated to school should generally be conducted
                     away from school during non-school hours.
dd. If the principal determines that such an interview should go forward, the
    principal should attempt to notify the parents or guardians of the request for an
    interview, and document, in writing, that attempt.
ee. The principal and the SRO should work together to determine when such
    questioning should take place in order to ensure the least amount of disruption
    to the student’s learning and the educational environment.
ff. Each SRO will provide a biannual report (in January and June) to their
    respective high school principal or middle school principal that documents each
    of the following incidents of “law enforcement activity,” as defined by Utah Code
    § 53E-3-516, that involved the SRO and a student (including the identity of the
    student in the report):
          i. arrests, including the reason the student was arrested;
         ii. search and seizure;
        iii. issuance of a criminal citation;
        iv. issuance of a ticket or summons;

                             Page 9 of 14
                  v. filing a delinquency petition; or
                  vi. referral to a probation officer.

 V.    Access to Education Records
          a. School officials shall allow SROs to inspect and copy any public records,
             including directory information, maintained by the school to the extent allowed
             by law. Access to student records is governed by the Family Educational Rights
             and Privacy Act (FERPA), 20 U.S.C. §1232g et seq., 34 CFR Part 99, and
             Utah’s Student Privacy and Data Protection Act (SPDPA), Utah Code § 53E-
             9-101 et seq.
          b. The School District will designate SROs as “school officials” in accordance with
             FERPA and SPDPA in order to ensure that SROs have lawful access to
             students’ schedules, daily attendance, as well as directory information.
          c. If additional information in a student’s record is needed in an emergency to
             protect the health or safety of the student or other individuals, school officials
             shall disclose to the SROs only that information that is needed to respond to
             the emergency situation based on the seriousness of the threat to someone’s
             health or safety; the need of the information to meet the emergency situation;
             and the extent to which time is of the essence.
          d. If an SRO needs confidential student record information, but no emergency
             situation exists, the information may be released only as allowed by law.
          e. Notwithstanding any of the above, if an SRO or the City’s Police Department’s
             law enforcement officer presents a warrant, subpoena, or court order for
             special educational records or video recordings, those items shall be provided
             as soon as possible.
VI.    Law Enforcement Units
          a. The School District will designate the District’s Risk Management as the
             District’s Law Enforcement Unit and SROs as the School’s Law Enforcement
             Unit as provided under FERPA (Family Education Rights Privacy Act),
             pursuant to 20 U.S.C. 1232g(a)(4)(ii) and 34 C.F.R. 99.8. Parents shall be
             notified annually of these designations. All school security equipment shall
             be the responsibility of the District’s law enforcement unit. All school security
             records, including but not limited to, school security campus videotapes or
             school bus videotapes, are created and maintained by the District’s law
             enforcement unit. These records are not deemed to be student records or
             educational records [20 U.S.C. 1232g(a)(4)(ii)]. In addition, records created
             by the School’s Law Enforcement Unit are not deemed to be student records
             or educational records [20 U.S.C. 1232g(a)(4)(ii)]. If the District’s law
             enforcement unit or School’s law enforcement unit provides these records to
             the School’s officials for student disciplinary purposes, the records
             maintained by the School officials may become student records or
             educational records.

VII.   Respect for Student Rights
          a. An SRO may conduct or participate in a search of a student’s person,
             possessions, or locker where there is probable cause to believe that the
             search will turn up evidence that the student has committed or is committing
             a criminal offense.
          b. The SRO shall not ask school administrators or other school employees to
             interview or search a student’s person, possessions or locker in an effort to

                                      Page 10 of 14
                   circumvent these protections.
               c. A school administrator may conduct a search of a student’s person,
                  possession or locker where there is a reasonable suspicion to believe that the
                  search will turn evidence that the student has violated or is violating the law
                  or rules of the school, and the search is justified in scope given the nature of
                  the suspicion.
               d. Absent a real and immediate threat to an individual or public safety, a school
                  administrator should not ask an SRO to be present or participate in a search
                  conducted by a school administrator.
               e. No provision in this agreement is intended to prohibit a student from
                  voluntarily speaking with law enforcement. Other conversations between
                  SROs and students will be on the premise of building relationships to help
                  develop a healthy learning environment and promote prosocial behaviors.
               f. School administrators and SROs are prohibited from conducting strip
                  searches of students.
               g. An SRO shall not use physical restraints on a student, including handcuffs,
                  mace, or other physical or chemical restraints, unless the student’s actions
                  pose an imminent threat or the student is subject to arrest.

                                     SECTION EIGHT
                         NOTICE OF DEFAULT; CORRECTIVE ACTION

        The failure of either party to comply with each and every term and condition of this
Agreement shall constitute a breach of this Agreement. Either party shall have thirty (30) days
after receipt of written notice from the other of any breach to correct the conditions specified in
the notice, or if the corrections cannot be made within the thirty (30) day period, within a
reasonable time if corrective action is commenced within ten (10) days after receipt of the notice.

                                         SECTION NINE
                                     RIGHTS AND REMEDIES

        In the event of any breach hereunder and after the lapse of the cure period as per Section
Eight above, the non-breaching party shall have all the rights and remedies available under the
laws of the State of Utah in effect. The rights and remedies of the parties hereto shall not be
mutually exclusive, but shall be cumulative in all respects. The respective rights and obligations
of the parties hereunder shall be enforceable in equity as well as at law or otherwise. In addition,
in the event the School District breaches this Agreement and fails to make corrections as set forth
in Section Eight above, the City may terminate this Agreement and cease providing an SRO to
Corner Canyon High School and Draper Park Middle School.

                                   SECTION TEN
                       GOVERNING LAW, JURISDICTION, AND VENUE

        All questions with respect to the construction of this Agreement and all right and liability of
the parties hereto shall be governed by the laws of the State of Utah. Jurisdiction and venue for
the enforcement of this Agreement shall be found in the courts of Salt Lake County, State of Utah.

                                      SECTION ELEVEN
                                   COSTS OF ENFORCEMENT


                                            Page 11 of 14
        In the event of a breach of this Agreement, the non-breaching party shall be entitled to
recover from the breaching party all of the non-breaching party’s costs (including, but not limited
to, courts fees and expert witness costs) and attorneys’ fees associated with the enforcement of
this Agreement.

                                       SECTION TWELVE
                                           NOTICE

        Any written notice which must or may be given relating to this Agreement shall be sufficient
if mailed postage prepaid, registered or certified mail, in the United States mail addressed to a
party at the address given above. In the case of the School District, notice shall be mailed to the
attention of the Business Administrator at the above address. In the case of the City, notice shall
be mailed to the attention of the City Manager at the above address. Either party may notify the
other to designate a different address for mailing.

                                      SECTION THIRTEEN
                                        TERMINATION

       Either party may terminate this Agreement for any or no reason and at any time by giving
the other party at least sixty (60) days prior written notice of the same.

                                    SECTION FOURTEEN
                                 APPROPRIATION OF FUNDS

        The Parties’ obligations under this Agreement are expressly subject to the appropriation
of funds by the City Council and/or the School District’s Board of Education. Further, in the
event that funds are not appropriated in whole or in part sufficient for performance of the
obligations under this Agreement, the Parties may terminate this Agreement.

                                       SECTION FIFTEEN
                                       INDEMNIFICATION

       Both parties are governmental entities under the Governmental Immunity Act of
Utah (the “Immunity Act”), Utah Code Ann. §§ 63G-7-101 to -904 (2011), as amended.
Consistent with the terms of the Immunity Act, it is mutually agreed that each party is
responsible and liable for its own wrongful or negligent acts, which it commits or which
are committed, by its agents, officials, or employees. Neither Party waives any defenses
otherwise available under the Immunity Act nor does any party waive any limits of liability now
or hereafter provided by law.

                                      SECTION SIXTEEN
                                    GENERAL PROVISIONS

       A.      Severability. In the event that any condition, covenant, or other provision herein
contained is held to be invalid or void by any court of competent jurisdiction, the same shall be
deemed severable from the remainder of this Agreement and shall in no way affect any other
covenant or condition herein contained. If such condition, covenant, or other provision shall be
deemed invalid due to its scope or breadth, such provision shall be deemed valid to the extent of
the scope or breadth permitted by law.



                                           Page 12 of 14
        B.      Entire Agreement. This Agreement contains the entire agreement between the
parties. No promise, representation, warranty, or covenant not included in this Agreement has
been or is relied upon by the parties. All prior understandings, negotiations, or agreements are
merged herein and superseded hereby.

        C.      Amendments. This Agreement may be modified only by a writing signed by each
of the parties hereto.

        D.     Covenants and Conditions. Each provision of this Agreement performable by
the City and the School District shall be deemed to be both a covenant and a condition.

       E.     Not Assignable. This Agreement is specific to the parties hereto and is therefore
not assignable.

      F.     Binding Effect.       This Agreement shall bind the parties and their respective
successors and assigns.

       G.       Captions. The captions to the various Sections of this Agreement are for
convenience and ease of reference only and do not define, limit, augment, or describe the scope,
content, or intent of this Agreement or any part or parts of this Agreement.

      H.       Time. Time is of the essence of each term, provision, and covenant of this
Agreement.

       I.     Counterparts. This Agreement may be executed in two or more counterparts,
each of which shall be deemed an original, but all of which shall constitute one and the same
instrument.

       J.      Gender and Number. The singular number includes the plural whenever the
context so indicates. The neuter gender includes the feminine and masculine, the masculine
includes the feminine and neuter, and the feminine includes the masculine and neuter, and each
includes corporation, limited liability company, partnership, or other legal entity when the context
so requires. The word "person" means person or persons or other entity or entities or any
combination of persons and entities.

       K.      Waiver or Forbearance. No delay or omission in the exercise of any right or
remedy by any party hereto shall impair such right or remedy or be construed as a waiver. Any
waiver of any breach must be in writing and shall not be a waiver of any other breach concerning
the same or any other provision of this Agreement.

        L.      No Partnership, Joint Venture, or Third-Party Rights. Except as specifically
set forth herein, nothing in this Agreement shall be construed as creating any partnership, joint
venture, or business arrangement among the parties hereto, nor any rights or benefits to third-
parties.




                                           Page 13 of 14
