MEMO
To: Planning Commission
From: Tevai Haunga
Date: 2024-03-14
Re: Public Hearing: Raining Hot Coupons, LLC Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit
(Administrative Action)


Comments:

This application is a request for approval of a Home Occupation for approximately 0.46
acres located at approximately 1935 E. Stag Hill Circle. The property is zoned RA2
(Residential Agricultural 20,000 sq. ft. minimum lot size) zone. The applicants are
requesting that a Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit be approved to allow for a
limited assembly and repair home based business with online sales and three (3) non-
residential, non-family employees.

This application was continued to the March 14, 2024 meeting to give the applicant time
to submit accurate scaled and dimensioned floor plans, and to propose mitigating
conditions in regards to the current non-compliance with required residential parking,
fire code violations and displacement of the primary residential use by the overall scale of
the operation. The applicants have not provided all of the requested information prior to
the writing of this report. The applicants did meet with the Fire Marshall for a fire
inspection. Staff has recommended the application be denied.


The findings for denial as are follows:


  1. The applicant has not submitted all necessary documentation and information as
     requested.
  2. The proposal does not address all existing and anticipated detrimental effects of the
     business, and these impacts are not able to be mitigated through the imposition of
     reasonable mitigation measures.
  3. The proposed use is not in harmony with the objectives and requirements of the
     city's general plan and will be detrimental to the health, safety, or general welfare of
     persons residing or working in the vicinity, or injurious to property or improvements
     in the vicinity.
  4. The proposed use does not comply with applicable regulations and conditions
     specified in ordinance or does not comply with the intent of the City General Plan.
  5. The specific property is not suitable for the magnitude of the proposed use.
The findings for approval are as follows:


  1. Reasonable mitigation measures can be placed on the conditional use, through the
     included conditions, to alleviate anticipated detrimental effects, including parking.
  2. The proposed use with the imposition of the included conditions, will not, under the
     circumstances of the particular case, be detrimental to the health, safety, or general
     welfare of persons residing or working in the vicinity, or injurious to property or
     improvements in the vicinity.
  3. The proposed use, with the imposition of the included conditions, will comply with
     applicable regulations and conditions specified in ordinance and will comply with
     the intent of the City General Plan.


ATTACHMENTS:

Raining Hot Coupons Revised 3-12-24 - FINAL.pdf
