               REQUEST FOR COUNCIL ACTION

To:                          Mayor & City Council
From:                        Rhett Ogden,
                             Parks and Recreation Director
Date:                        February 20, 2024
Subject:                     Approving Mayor Walker to sign an interlocal agreement with Lehi City
                             for Lehi City to construct and maintain trails on Draper City property
Applicant Presentation:      n/a

Staff Presentation:          Rhett Ogden

RECOMMENDATION:
Staff recommends approving Resolution #24-13 regarding an interlocal agreement with Lehi City for
Lehi City to construct and maintain trails on Draper City property.


BACKGROUND AND FINDINGS:
Draper City has been working with Lehi City for several years to work out agreements and permissions in the
area where these trails will be built. Both city mayors have worked together and directed each city staff to find
an agreement. The “Mayors Trail” will be built on Draper City property, but close in proximity to Lehi City.
The trail and all construction costs as well as future maintenance will be the responsibility of Lehi City and
because of this it was desired by Draper City to have an agreement set forth for Lehi City to follow.


PREVIOUS LEGISLATIVE ACTION:


FISCAL IMPACT: Funding for construction and on-going maintenance will be the responsibility of
Lehi City.
SUPPORTING DOCUMENTS:
   • Agreement attached
                                    RESOLUTION #23-77

A RESOLUTION OF THE DRAPER CITY COUNCIL APPROVING AN INTERLOCAL
AGREEMENT WITH LEHI CITY FOR LEHI CITY TO CONSTRUCT AND MAINTAIN
                 TRAILS ON DRAPER CITY PROPERTY

      WHEREAS, Draper City has a large trail system that is now adjacent to Lehi City’s trail
system; and

       WHEREAS, Draper City has a common interest to connect Draper City’s trail system
with Lehi City’s trail system for the benefit and enjoyment of both cities’ residents; and

      WHEREAS, the proposed trails to be constructed are located on Draper City owned
property; and

       WHEREAS, because Lehi City will be responsible for all the costs associated with the
construction, management and maintenance of the proposed trails, an interlocal
agreement is desired for implementation and standards.

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF DRAPER CITY, STATE OF
UTAH, AS FOLLOWS:

       1. Approval. The Draper City Council approves the – “INTERLOCAL COOPERATION
       AGREEMENT BETWEEN DRAPER CITY AND LEHI CITY” attached hereto as Exhibit 1
       and authorizes Mayor Troy Walker to sign the interlocal agreement

       2. Effective Date. This Resolution shall become effective immediately upon its
       passage.

PASSED AND ADOPTED BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF DRAPER CITY, STATE OF UTAH, ON THE
__________ DAY OF___________________, 2024.

                                                  DRAPER CITY



                                                  ___________________________
                                                  Mayor Troy K. Walker

ATTEST:



_________________________________
Laura Oscarson, CMC, City Recorder
                          YES   NO

VOTE TAKEN:

Councilmember Green

Councilmember Johnson

Councilmember T. Lowery

Councilmember F. Lowry

Councilmember Roberts

Mayor Walker
                                            EXHIBIT 1
                           INTERLOCAL COOPERATION AGREEMENT BETWEEN
                                     DRAPER CITY AND LEHI CITY

        This Interlocal Cooperation Agreement (hereafter “Agreement”) is made and entered into
and effective as of the date the last party signs below (“Effective Date”) by and between Draper
City, Utah (hereinafter “Draper”) and Lehi City, Utah (hereinafter “Lehi”) (collectively “Parties”)
regarding the construction and maintenance of the Traverse Mountain Trails System and is being
entered into pursuant to the Utah Interlocal Cooperation Act, UTAH CODE ANN. § 11-13-101, et seq.

                                                  WITNESSETH:

WHEREAS, Lehi and Draper are developing adjacent trail and open space systems; and

WHEREAS, Lehi desires to build trails adjacent and connecting to Draper; and

WHEREAS, the property where Lehi desires to build trails is on Draper owned property within Utah County
and is directly adjacent to Lehi open space property as shows on the attached Exhibit A; and

WHEREAS, the Parties desire to work together, according to the terms and provisions of this Agreement,
to construct, and maintain the trail for the benefit of the citizens of Draper and Lehi; and

WHEREAS, Utah Code Ann. § 11-13-1 et seq. (the “Interlocal Cooperation Act”), authorizes public agencies
to enter into joint agreements for the promotion of parks and recreation facilities; and

WHEREAS, the Parties are public agencies as defined by the Interlocal Cooperation Act; and

WHEREAS, Utah Code Ann. § 11-2-1 authorizes the Parties to designate and acquire recreational
facilities including trails; and

WHEREAS, this Agreement does not create an interlocal entity, but only represents an Interlocal
Agreement.

NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the mutual covenants contained herein, and other good and
valuable consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of which are hereby acknowledged, the Parties
hereby agree as follows:

                •   Duration of Agreement. The term of this Agreement shall begin on the date set forth
                    above and shall continue until terminated by one of the parties as described herein or for
                    fifty (50) years, whichever is sooner.

           2.       Termination. This Agreement may be terminated by mutual written agreement of the
Parties.

       3.        Draper Obligations. Draper grants Lehi a non-exclusive right to access, construct and
maintain trails on approximately 300 acres of Draper owned property directly north of Lehi open space
and south of the Utah County boundary line as shown on Exhibit A (“Property”).

           4.       Lehi Obligations. As is it able to do so and has the funds for, Lehi City agrees to
construct the trails shown on Exhibit A. Once built, Lehi will be responsible to maintain the trails. Lehi
also recognizes and hereby agrees to construct and maintain the trails in accordance with the terms of
Draper’s conservation easement on the Property.
        Lehi City agrees to construct any trails on Draper City property according to the following:
             ▪ All proposed trail alignment and work shall be reviewed and approved by Draper City,
                 prior to any construction. Route flagging may take place if a digital alignment has been
                 approved.
             ▪ All trail design and construction shall follow Draper City trail building standards, at a
                 minimum.
             ▪ Signage shall be provided on all new trails and approved by Draper City prior to
                 placement.
             ▪ Draper City shall have the right, but no obligation, to inspect the progress of any work.
        Lehi City agrees to maintain and manage any trails on Draper City property according to the
        following:
             ▪ Lehi City shall maintain its trails annually and have a plan to do so, which plan Lehi shall
                 send to Draper City.
             ▪ Maintenance shall include trash removal, drainage/erosion control, signage maintenance,
                 vegetation maintenance, and trail tread maintenance.
             ▪ Maintenance shall also include immediate emergency repairs or closures caused by
                 unanticipated intentional or elemental damage.
             ▪ Draper City shall have the right, but no obligation, to inspect the ongoing maintenance
                 of the trails.
             ▪ Lehi City shall be responsible for any temporary closures of the trails due to trail
                 conditions or to protect the public.

        5.     Insurance. The Lehi City, its contractors and subcontractors shall acquire and maintain
during the term of the Agreement insurance in the amount specified in Exhibit B attached hereto and
incorporated herein.

        6..      Liability and Indemnification. Both Parties are governmental entities under the Utah
Governmental Immunity Act, Title 63, Chapter 30, Utah Code Ann., 1953, as amended. Consistent with
the terms of this Act, it is mutually agreed that each party is responsible and liable for its own wrongful or
negligent acts which it commits, or which are committed by its agents, officials, or employees. Neither
party waives any defenses otherwise available under the Governmental Immunity Act.

        7.      Notice.

                7.1     If any notice is required to be provided pursuant to the terms and conditions of
                this Agreement, said notice must be provided as follows:

                          To Lehi:                                 To Draper:
                          Lehi City Corporation                           Draper City Corporation
                          Attn:                                           Attn: City Manager
                          [address]                                       1020 East Pioneer Rd.
                          Lehi, Utah 84043                                Draper, Utah 84020

                7.2     If notice is sent via regular mail, commercial courier, and the like, receipt
                thereof shall be presumed on the third Calendar Day thereafter.
         8.      Attorneys’ Fees and Costs. Each party shall bear its own attorneys’ fees and costs
incurred in connection with the drafting, execution, and performance of this Agreement. However, if
any action at law or in equity is necessary to enforce or interpret the terms of this Agreement, the
prevailing party in such action shall be entitled to recover reasonable attorneys’ fees, legal costs, and
other collection fees and costs incurred by the prevailing party in connection with the suit, both before
and after the judgment, in addition to any other relief to which such party may be entitled.

        9.      Non-Waiver. No failure to exercise and no delay in exercising any right, remedy, or
power under this Agreement shall operate as a waiver thereof, nor shall any single or partial exercise of
any right, remedy, or power under this Agreement preclude any other or further exercise thereof, or the
exercise of any other right, remedy or power provided herein or by law or in equity.

       10.       Binding Effect. This Agreement is binding upon the Parties and their proper and
allowable heirs, legatees, representatives, successors, and assignees.

         11.      Assignment. Neither party may assign this Agreement nor delegate any responsibilities
under this Agreement without prior written consent. Any purported assignment or delegation in
violation of this Section without prior written consent from the non-assigning party, shall be void and
will be considered a material breach of this Agreement.

        12.    Amendments. This Agreement may not be modified, amended, or terminated, except
by an instrument in writing.

        13.     Time. Time is of the essence with this Agreement, as well as every term, covenant, and
condition contained herein.

        14.     Force Majeure. Neither party shall be liable for any failure or delay in performing an
obligation under this Agreement that is due to causes beyond its reasonable control, such as natural
catastrophes, governmental acts or omissions, laws or regulations, labor strikes or difficulties,
pandemics, transportation stoppages or slowdowns or the inability to procure parts or materials. If any
of these causes continue to prevent or delay performance for more than 180 days, the non-delaying
party may terminate this Agreement, effective immediately upon notice to the delaying party.

         15.    Severability. If any provision of this Agreement is determined to be invalid or
unenforceable, the remaining provisions of this Agreement shall, nevertheless, be construed,
performed, and enforced as if the invalidated or unenforceable provision had not been included in the
text of the Agreement.

        16.    Governing Law. This Agreement shall be construed in accordance with the laws of the
State of Utah.

        17.    No Agency Created. It is mutually agreed and understood by and between said Parties
that: agents, employees, or representatives of each party shall not be deemed to be the agents,
employees or representatives of the other.

        18.      Entire Agreement. All agreements, covenants, representations and warranties, express
or implied, oral or written, of the Parties concerning the subject matter hereof are contained solely in this
Agreement, subject to any implied warranties and conditions imposed upon the Parties by Utah law. No
other agreements, covenants, representations, or warranties have been made by any party to any other
party concerning the subject matter hereof. All prior and contemporaneous conversations, negotiations,
possible and alleged agreements, representations, covenants, and warranties concerning the subject
matter hereof are merged herein. This is an integrated agreement.

        19.      Compliance with the Interlocal Cooperation Act. In satisfaction of the requirements of
the Interlocal Cooperation Act in connection with this Agreement, the Parties agree as follows:

          (i) This Agreement shall be authorized as provided in Section 11-13-202.5 of
          the Interlocal Cooperation Act.

          (ii) This Agreement shall be reviewed as to proper form and compliance with applicable law by a
          duly authorized attorney in behalf of each Party pursuant to and in accordance with Section 11-
          13-202.5 of the Interlocal Cooperation Act.

          (iii) A duly executed original counterpart of this Agreement shall be filed immediately with the
          keeper of records of each Party pursuant to Section 11-13-209 of the Interlocal Cooperation Act.

          (v) Except as otherwise specifically provided herein, each Party shall be responsible for its own
          costs of any action done pursuant to this Agreement, and for any financing of such costs.

          (vi) No separate legal entity is created by the terms of this Agreement and no facility, property or
          improvement will be jointly acquired, jointly owned, or jointly operated by the Parties under this
          Agreement.

          (vii) Pursuant to Section 11-13-207 of the Interlocal Cooperation Act, the Draper Mayor or
          designee and the Lehi Mayor or designee are hereby designated as the joint administrative board
          for all purposes of the Interlocal Cooperation Act.

        WHEREFORE, Lehi and Draper voluntarily enter into this Agreement, as evidenced by affixing their
respective signatures below.

Lehi City:                                                 Draper City:



Lehi City                                                  Draper City
By: Mark Johnson                                           By: Troy Walker
Its: Mayor                                                 Its: Mayor

Dated:                                                     Dated:


Attest:                                                    Attest:



Teisha Wilson, City Recorder                               Laura Oscarson, City Recorder

Dated:                                                     Dated:
Reviewed and approved as to   Reviewed and approved as to
proper form and compliance    proper form and compliance
with applicable law:                  with applicable law:



Ryan Wood, City Attorney             Mike Barker, City Attorney
                                                               "Exhibit A"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ¯
     Legend
Proposed Multiuse Trail
Proposed Directional Trail
Proposed Foot Trail
Existing Multi Use Trails
Existing Paved Trails
                                                                                tum
                                                                               men
                                                                              Mo-
                                                               Traverse T
                             Project Location
                                                                   verse ra




                                                                                                                       Lolo
                                                        rail
                                                   sei T
                                                  Sen




                                                                                                         d
                                                                                                     an
                                                                                                    db
                                                                                                    oa
                                                                                                  Br
                                                                                                  County of Salt Lake, County of Utah, Bureau of Land Management, Utah AGRC, Esri, HERE, Garmin, INCREMENT P, USGS, EPA, USDA
                                                                                             Up
                                                                                      Dial
                                                                                                                                                                                     0       0.1       0.2                0.4 Miles
                                                TMTA 2023 PROPOSED TRAILS                                                                                                                  1 inch equals 0.2 miles
                                         Exhibit B
                                  Insurance Requirements

Lehi City shall procure and maintain for the duration of the contract insurance against claims for
injuries to persons or damages to property, which may arise from or in connection with the
performance of the work hereunder, and the results of that work by Lehi City, its agents,
representatives, employees or subcontractors.


MINIMUM SCOPE AND LIMIT OF INSURANCE
Coverage shall be at least as broad as:
   1. Commercial General Liability (CGL): Comprehensible General Liability Insurance on
      an “occurrence” basis, including products and completed operations, property damage,
      bodily injury and personal & advertising injury with limits no less than $2,000,000 per
      occurrence. If a general aggregate limit applies, either the general aggregate limit shall
      apply separately to this project/location or the general aggregate limit shall be twice the
      required occurrence limit.
   2. Automobile Liability: Auto Liability insurance covering any auto, or if Lehi City has no
      owned autos, hired, and non-owned autos, with limit no less than $1,000,000 per accident
      for bodily injury and property damage.
   3. Workers’ Compensation: Workers’ Compensation insurance with statutory limits as
      required by the Workers’ Compensation Act of the State of Utah unless a waiver of
      coverage is allowed and acquired pursuant to Utah law and Employer’s Liability Insurance
      with limit of no less than $1,000,000 per accident for bodily injury or disease. This
      requirement does not apply to individuals not employed with a company or other
      commercial entity.
       If Lehi City maintains broader coverage and/or higher limits than the minimums shown
       above, Draper City requires and shall be entitled to the broader coverage and/or the higher
       limits maintained by Lehi City. Any available insurance proceeds in excess of the specified
       minimum limits of insurance and coverage shall be available to Draper City.
Other Insurance Provisions
The insurance policies are to contain, or be endorsed to contain, the following provisions:
Additional Insured Status
Draper City, its officers, officials, employees, and volunteers are to be covered as additional
insureds on the CGL policy with respect to liability arising out of work or operations performed
by or on behalf of Lehi City including materials, parts, or equipment furnished in connection with
such work or operations. General liability coverage shall be provided in the form of an
endorsement.
Primary Coverage
For any claims related to this contract, Lehi City’s insurance coverage shall be primary coverage
as respects Draper City, its officers, officials, employees, and volunteers. Any insurance or self-
insurance maintained by Draper city, its officers, officials, employees, or volunteers shall be excess
of Lehi City’s insurance and shall not contribute with it.
Notice of Cancellation
Each insurance policy required above shall provide that coverage shall not be canceled, except
with notice to Draper City.
Waiver of Subrogation
Lehi City hereby grants to Draper City a waiver of any right to subrogation, which any insurer of
said Lehi City may acquire against Draper City by virtue of the payment of any loss under such
insurance. Lehi City agrees to obtain any endorsement that may be necessary to affect this waiver
of subrogation, but this provision applies regardless of whether or not Draper City has received a
waiver of subrogation endorsement from the insurer.
Self-Insured Retentions
Self-insured retentions exceeding $750,000 must be declared to and approved by Draper City.
Draper City may require Lehi City to purchase coverage with a lower retention or provide proof
of ability to pay losses and related investigations, claim administration, and defense expenses
within the retention. The policy language shall provide, or be endorsed to provide, that the self-
insured retention may be satisfied by either the named insured or Entity.
Acceptability of Insurers
Insurance is to be placed with insurers authorized to conduct business in the state with a current
A.M. Best’s rating of no less than A:VII, unless otherwise acceptable to Draper City.
Claims Made Policies
If any of the required policies provide claims-made coverage:
      1. The Retroactive Date must be shown, and must be before the date of the contract or the
         beginning of contract work.
      2. Insurance must be maintained and evidence of insurance must be provided for at least
         five (5) years after completion of the contract of work.
      3. If coverage is canceled or non-renewed, and not replaced with another claims-made
         policy form with a Retroactive Date prior to the contract effective date, Lehi City must
         purchase “extended reporting” coverage for a minimum of five (5) years after
         completion of work.
Verification of Coverage
Lehi City shall furnish Draper City with original Certificates of Insurance including all required
amendatory endorsements (or copies of the applicable policy language effecting coverage required
by this clause) and a copy of the Declarations and Endorsement Page of the CGL policy listing all
policy endorsements to Draper City before work begins. However, failure to obtain the required
documents prior to the work beginning shall not waive Lehi City’s obligation to provide them.
Draper City reserves the right to require complete, certified copies of all required insurance
policies, including endorsements required by these specifications, at any time.
Special Risks or Circumstances
Draper City reserves the right to modify these requirements, including limits, based on the nature
of the risk, prior experience, insurer, coverage, or other special circumstances.
Notice of Incident or Accident
Lehi City shall agree to disclose to Draper City, all incidents or occurrences of accident, injury,
and/or property damage covered by the insurance policy or policies.
