MEMO
To: Planning Commission
From: Todd A. Draper, AICP
Date: 2024-04-25
Re: Public Meeting: Raining Hot Coupons, LLC Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit Request
(Administrative Action)



Comments:


This application is a request for approval of a Home Occupation for approximately 0.46 acres
located at approximately 1935 E. Stag Hill Circle. The property is zoned RA2. The applicants are
requesting that a Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit be approved to allow for a limited
assembly and repair home-based business with online sales and up to three (3) non-residential,
non- family employees.


This application was first presented to the Planning Commission on February 8, 2024, and was
continued to the March 14, 2024 meeting. At the March 14, 2024 Planning Commission meeting the
application was again continued to the April 25th meeting after the public hearing was concluded.

Planning Staff Has recommended denial of the application.


The findings for denial as are follows:

   1. The proposal does not address all existing and anticipated detrimental effects of the
      business.
   2. Impacts remain from the existing and anticipated detrimental effects of the business that are
      not able to be sufficiently mitigated through the imposition of reasonable mitigation
      measures.
   3. The proposed use is not in harmony with the objectives and requirements of the city's
      general plan and will be detrimental to the health, safety, or general welfare of persons
      residing or working in the vicinity, or injurious to property or improvements in the vicinity.
   4. The proposed use does not comply with applicable regulations and conditions specified in
      ordinance and does not comply with the intent of the City General Plan.
   5. The nature and scope of the proposed business is industrially scaled, conflicting both with the
      defined intent of use type to not include mass production, and with the stated purposes of
      the RA2 zone to protect primary residential uses from commercial and industrial
      encroachment.
   6. The specific property is not suitable for the magnitude of the proposed use.
ATTACHMENTS:

Raining Hot Coupons Staff Report V3
