                                 Development Review Committee
                                         1020 East Pioneer Road
                                           Draper, UT 84020
                                             March 7, 2024

To:              Draper City Planning Commission
                 Business Date: March 14, 2024

From:            Development Review Committee

Prepared By: Tevai Haunga, Planner I
             Planning Division
             Community Development Department
             801-576-6522, tevai.haunga@draperutah.gov

Re:     Raining Hot Coupons, LLC - Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit Request
        Application No.: 2023-4587-USE
        Applicant:        Sarah Gibbons
        Project Location: 1935 E. Stag Hill Circle
        Current Zoning: RA2 (Single Family 20,000 sq. ft. minimum lot size)
        Acreage:          0.46 Acres (Approximately 20,038 square feet)
        Request:          Request for approval of a Home Occupation in the RA2 zone for a
                          limited assembly and repair home occupation.

BACKGROUND AND SUMMARY
This application is a request for approval of a Home Occupation for approximately 0.46
acres located at approximately 1935 E. Stag Hill Circle (Exhibit B & C). The property is zoned
RA2. The applicants are requesting that a Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit be
approved to allow for a limited assembly and repair home based business with online sales
and three (3) non-residential, non- family employees.

The property is part of the Hunter Ridge At Draper subdivision and the home was built in
2005. This home based business application was originally filed in June of 2023 as the
result of City code enforcement actions, where the applicant was cited for operating
without a business license. Resolution of the citation regarding the lack of a business
license is currently pending in a separate court case in which the applicant has reportedly
not appeared at the previous two court dates. The business is operating outside of the
permitted use standards for home occupations, and may not receive a business license in
order to continue operating without first obtaining a conditional use permit.




Raining Hot Coupons, LLC                                          App. # 2023-4587-USE
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit             1
This application was first presented to the Planning Commission on February 8, 2024 and
was continued to the March 14, 2024 meeting. The applicant was given this time to submit
accurate scaled and dimensioned floor plans, and to propose mitigating conditions in
regards to the current non-compliance with required residential parking, fire code
violations and displacement of the primary residential use by the overall scale of the
operation. The applicants were emailed a list of the documents needed for re-submission
but did not provide the requested information prior to the writing of this report. The
applicants did meet with the Fire Marshall for a fire inspection to resolve fire concerns.

General Plan and Zoning.

 Table 1                   General Plan and Zoning Designations                       Exhibit
 Existing Land Use         Residential Low-Medium Density                             Exhibit D
 Current Zoning            RA2                                                        Exhibit E
 Proposed Use
 Adjacent Zoning
    East                   RA2
    West                   RA2
    North                  RA2
    South                  RA2

The Residential Low-Medium Density land use designation is characterized as follows:




Raining Hot Coupons, LLC                                       App. # 2023-4587-USE
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit         2
According DCMC Section 9-8-020 the purpose of the RA2 zone is to “foster low density
development with little impact on its surroundings and municipal services; to generally preserve
the character of the city's semirural areas; and to promote and preserve conditions favorable to
large lot family life, including the keeping of limited numbers of animals and fowl. The
predominant use in these zones is intended to be detached single-family dwellings, protected
from encroachment by commercial and industrial uses.”

Home Occupation.
According to DCMC Section 9-5-080, an application for a conditional use permit for a home
occupation is required at minimum to submit the following:




Raining Hot Coupons, LLC                                         App. # 2023-4587-USE
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit          3
    a. The name, address and telephone number of the applicant and the applicant's agent, if
        any.
    b. The address and parcel identification of the subject property.
    c. The zone, zone boundaries and present use of the subject property.
    d. A complete description of the proposed conditional use.
    e. A plot plan showing the following:
        (1) Applicant's name;
        (2) Site address;
        (3) Property boundaries and dimensions;
        (4) Layout of existing and proposed buildings, parking, landscaping, and utilities; and
        (5) Adjoining property lines and uses within one hundred feet (100') of the subject
            property.
    f. Traffic impact analysis, if required by the city engineer or the planning commission.
    g. A statement by the applicant demonstrating how the conditional use permit request
        meets the approval standards of subsection E of this section.
    h. A statement indicating whether the applicant will require a variance in connection with
        the proposed conditional use.
    i. Such other and further information or documentation as the zoning administrator may
        deem necessary for a full and proper consideration and disposition of a particular
        application.

Furthermore the application checklist requests from the applicant a statement by the
applicant demonstrating how the home occupation conditional use permit request meets
the standards of DCMC 9-5-080(E), and a separate written narrative describing the nature
of the home occupation conditional use including information about the proposed use
(describing the proposed use, including information such as required parking, hours of
operation, expected patrons and/or employees, proposed site improvements, etc.). Also,
the statement was to include details of reasonably anticipated detrimental effects to
adjacent properties and the neighborhood (such as traffic or noise), and any mitigation
measures being proposed to alleviate those effects.

The applicant has only submitted the documentation provided in exhibits F, G, and H as
part of their initial application submittal and in response to staff’s initial requests for
additional information. Staff and the Planning Commission have both requested additional
information from the applicants. Staff has received additional drawings, photos, and
statements included in exhibits J, K, L and M. Staff still has not received the following
necessary documents and documentation: a scaled and dimensioned site plan or floor plan
for the home and business, a scaled and dimensioned parking plan, specifics on the
frequency and scale of deliveries or shipments, and a comprehensive statement from the
applicant on how the standards of DCMC Subsection 9-5-080(E) will be met. The new
photos do not show compliance with minimum residential parking requirements and no
floor plan detailing compliance with minimum parking stall size requirements has been
provided.



Raining Hot Coupons, LLC                                         App. # 2023-4587-USE
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit          4
The applicant has identified the anticipated detrimental effects as:
   • Traffic from two (2) to three (3) non-resident employees coming to the residence
   • Noise from inventory deliveries or shipments.

The applicant is running a limited assembly and repair home based business. The business
repackages bulk and wholesale shipments of clothing and other articles they receive into
individual packages for sale and shipment to online customers. The applicants state there
are occasional deliveries to the home and shipments being picked up from the home, but
did not provide more specific details of the size or frequency of the deliveries or shipments
or the type of delivery vehicles that are making the deliveries to the home or picking up
shipments from the home. The applicants have proposed to limit deliveries and shipments
to mid-day to minimize noise disruptions to the neighborhood. The applicants have made
multiple conflicting statements as to the typical number of shipments received each day
and week. Staff is left to assume that in practice these are near daily deliveries and
shipments. The listed hours of operation are Monday – Friday 9:00 am – 7:00 pm. The
applicants have stated they have a home office in the home and that they store inventory
in the garage and the home. The applicants have declined planning staffs repeated
requests to provide dimensioned or scaled floor plans for the home but instead have
continued to provided general sketches and statements (Exhibits F and G). The
documentation submitted does not provide verification of compliance with applicable
standards for home based businesses, nor does it provide sufficient detail to verify
compliance with the requested or potentially applicable modifications to those standards.

The following are additional existing and anticipated negative impacts to adjacent
properties and the neighborhood that are created by the existing and proposed business
operation as identified by staff:
   • Increases in traffic and parking due to the presence of non-resident employees.
   • Noise from frequent and routine inventory deliveries and shipments from the
       home.
   • Impacts to the neighborhood if deliveries are made by large commercial vehicles
       such as box trucks or semi-trucks.
   • Non-compliance with required residential parking inside the garage and
       displacement of vehicles onto the driveway or street.
   • Overall magnitude of the operation overtaking and displacing the primary
       residential use of the home.
   • Potential nuisances created by the operation of packaging equipment.
   • The additional trash and recycling generated by shipping and receiving business and
       the increased burden placed on utility pick up services and potential for overflow to
       spill into yard areas, required on-site parking areas, or the street.

Staff has recommended denial of the conditional use permit as there are detrimental
impacts to the neighborhood are not able to be mitigated through the imposition of



Raining Hot Coupons, LLC                                       App. # 2023-4587-USE
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit        5
reasonable conditions, but has included several suggested conditions in the recommended
conditions section of this report.

The Planning Commission will need to determine if these conditions as proposed, as
modified, or with additional conditions will effectively mitigate the negative impacts
identified by staff, or other negative impacts identified by the Planning Commission. If
negative impacts are not able to be mitigated through the imposition of reasonable
conditions, the conditional use should be denied.

The DCMC Section 9-34-040 outlines development standards applicable to all home
occupations. Those criteria, along with additional information specific to the subject
request, are as follows:

        A. Ownership: The home occupation shall be owned and operated by a person who
           resides in the dwelling where the home occupation is located. Such person shall be
           the primary provider of the labor, work, or service provided in the home occupation.

             - The applicants did not address this standard in their submitted responses
             (Exhibit J, K, L and M). Staff is of the understanding that the business owners rent
             the home and live in a portion of it.

        B. Business License: A business license for the home occupation shall be obtained from
           and continually maintained with the city pursuant to title 6, chapter 11 of this code.

             - If approved the business owners will be required to comply with this standard
             and obtain and maintain a business license for the business while in operation
             at this location as a home-based business.

        C. Employees: Members of the family of the owner who reside in the dwelling may be
           employed in the home occupation. Nonfamily or nonresident employees shall be
           limited to one person.

             -The applicants have requested to be allowed up to three (3) non-residents
             employees. This is in addition to the two (2) resident employees (inclusive of the
             business owners). Staff is concerned with the number of vehicles this represents
             and the ability to park all vehicles associated with the residence and the
             business on the subject property in conformance with other parking
             requirements in ordinance. Staff suggests that in conjunction with the suggested
             limitations to the area utilized by the home business as detailed in criteria E and
             H below, that likewise, non-resident employees be limited to two (2) to coincide
             with limits placed on the scale of business operations taking place within the
             attached garage and the home.




Raining Hot Coupons, LLC                                          App. # 2023-4587-USE
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit           6
        D. Inspection: All facilities shall comply with fire, building, plumbing, electrical and all
           other city, county, state and federal codes. Inspections during reasonable hours by
           city officials may occur as necessary to assure compliance with regulations.

             -The applicants did not address this standard in their responses (Exhibit K).
             Inspections will be required as part of the business license review process.

        E. Inventory: No stock in trade, inventory, or other merchandise to exceed two hundred
           fifty (250) square feet shall be kept on the premises. No outside storage is allowed.

             -The applicants have stated that they will utilize an area greater than 25% of the
             size of the residential dwelling for the business, especially during peak sale
             seasons. The applicants have proposed an overall area for business use of 1671
             sq. ft. which includes the entire attached garage for shipping and receiving, but
             also office space and other processing areas inside the home. The applicants
             have stated that they will be efficiently managing inventory to minimize
             disruption to the neighborhood and to ensure the dwelling remains primarily for
             residential use. No further details on what the plan to manage inventory, or how
             it would minimize neighborhood disruptions were provided.

             Staff is concerned that the amount and location of area utilized for inventory
             and storage will continue to negatively affect the residential character of the
             dwelling and the neighborhood. As scaled and dimensioned floor plans for all
             floors have not been provided as requested, staff is unable to verify the accuracy
             of the applicant’s statements. Pictures submitted with the application (Exhibit H
             and Exhibit L) show the entire garage used for the business. Cars are unable to
             park in the garage, which has contributed to the overflow of cars on the
             driveway and into the street. Use of the entire garage area violates the minimum
             parking standards for residential dwellings found in DCMC Section 9-25-050(F)(4)
             which require a minimum of two parking spaces located inside of a garage. Staff
             has included conditions for potential approval in the staff report that the
             minimum two (2) parking spaces inside the garage be restored to use for the
             parking of personal vehicles owned and operated by the residents of the
             dwelling, including keeping the tandem parking behind these spaces on the
             driveway for the residential use also. Restoring the minimum required parking
             should also include at a minimum, a 400 sq. ft. reduction from the area utilized
             by the business inside the garage, which is also addressed in criterion H below.

        F. Modification Of Structures Or Yards: There shall be no visible evidence from the
           exterior of a dwelling that it is being used for any other purpose than that of a
           dwelling. No activities shall be carried on outside the dwelling in the yard for the
           benefit of or incidental to the home occupation. No front yard area shall be altered to
           provide parking required for a home occupation.



Raining Hot Coupons, LLC                                              App. # 2023-4587-USE
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit             7
             -The home occupation is proposed to be located entirely within the home and
             attached garage. No alteration of the exterior of the home or yard areas is
             proposed.

        G. Nuisance: Tools, items, equipment, or activities conducted within the dwelling which is
           offensive or noxious by reason of the emission of odor, smoke, gas, vibration,
           magnetic interference, or noise shall be prohibited.

             -The applicants have indicated that they will comply with this standard.

        H. Secondary Use: The home occupation shall be clearly incidental and secondary to the
           primary use of the dwelling for residential purposes. The home occupation shall not
           disrupt the normal residential character of the neighborhood in which the residence
           is located. Not more than twenty five percent (25%) of the dwelling unit shall be used
           for the home occupation.

             - The applicants have stated that their expansion beyond the twenty five percent
             (25%) limit is necessary to support the operational needs of their business while
             maintaining the residential nature of the property.

             The applicants submitted an updated drawing (Exhibit J), but it still is not the
             reasonably accurate and dimensioned floor plans that were requested, and
             where use of the entire garage would violate other applicable ordinances, staff is
             of the opinion that the applicants have not met their burden of proof that the
             use of additional floor area beyond the otherwise allowable twenty five percent
             (25%) of the dwelling square footage is warranted.

             The Salt Lake County Assessors office lists the square footage for the home (not
             including the garage) at 4,552 sq. ft. Staff has included a condition that the area
             for business use be limited to no more than 1,138 square feet, which is equal to
             25% of the square footage of the dwelling unit. This reduction from the
             requested usage of 1671 sq. ft. would also account for the reduction necessary
             to accommodate the required vehicular parking inside of the garage addressed
             in Criterion E above. The applicants have included an updated conceptual layout
             and statements (Exhibits J and K) that the business use has been reduced to 725
             sq. ft., however the new plans are still not scaled or dimensioned and
             compliance with these claims can not be verified by staff. Updated Photos in
             exhibit L appear to contradict this claim also.

        I.   Signs: All signage in a residential area must comply with chapter 26, "Signs", of this
             title.




Raining Hot Coupons, LLC                                             App. # 2023-4587-USE
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit             8
             -The applicants have indicated that they have no signs on the property related to
             the business and have indicated that they do not intend to put up any signage.

        J.   Traffic, Parking, And Access: No home occupation use shall generate pedestrian,
             parking, or vehicular traffic in excess of that customarily associated with the zone in
             which the use is located. All parking shall be provided and maintained on site with
             adequate provision for drop off traffic.

             -The applicants have submitted updated responses (Exhibits J and K) stating they
             have reduced business inventory in the garage, making it possible to park 3 cars
             in the garage. The new photos submitted (Exhibit L) still show storage and
             business use in the areas near the garage doors. The photos and revised
             conceptual drawing do not support the claims that the required parking spaces
             meeting the minimum size requirements of ordinance are available in the
             garage, or that the square footage reduction to 725 ft² of area used for the
             business is accurate.

             The applicants have stated they will have up to three (3) non-resident employees
             working from the home. The applicants have stated they have (3) personal
             vehicles in operation from the residence. There is a potential for (3) employee
             vehicles also being parked on-site, bringing this to a potential total of six (6)
             vehicles on property at any time. If the number of non-resident employees is
             limited to two (2) as suggested by staff in the response to criterion C, the total
             number of parking spaces needed would reduce to five (5). The applicants state
             that all parking will be provided on site on the driveway. A proposed parking
             plan was not submitted with the application, or in response to staff’s requests
             for additional information. The existing driveway only accommodates potentially
             four (4) to five (5) vehicles. As outlined above in criterion E, the required parking
             stalls inside of the garage will need to be removed from business use and be
             restored for residential parking use to comply with the parking ordinance. The
             restoration of this required parking inside the garage would enable the property
             to provide the necessary parking for both the residence and business use.
             Customers do not come to the home but occasional deliveries to the home do
             occur. The applicants have indicated that the deliveries and shipments from the
             home will be frequently monitored and scaled by the applicants, but have not
             provided reliable details on what delivery scale or frequency they will adhere to,
             or where the delivery and pick up vehicles might park. In the absence of specific
             details, staff has included a condition that all deliveries to the residence be made
             by typical small and light duty delivery vehicles that do not exceed Federal
             Highway Administration (FHWA) class 2, with an allowance for typical commercial
             delivery vans used for residential deliveries that are class 3. To preserve the
             residential character of the neighborhood, business deliveries by other vehicles
             FHWA class 3 or greater should be prohibited.



Raining Hot Coupons, LLC                                             App. # 2023-4587-USE
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit             9
        K. Vehicles: Other than the business owner's personal transportation, there shall be no
           vehicles or equipment on the property associated with the home occupation which
           would not normally be found at a residence. No signage for the home occupation
           shall be allowed on vehicles.

             - All six (6) vehicles associated with the property are passenger type vehicles that
             would be normally found at a residence. There is no signage on the work
             vehicles. During a site visit staff noticed an enclosed utility trailer is parked on
             the east side of the home behind the front wall plane of the adjacent garage. The
             applicants have not indicated that the trailer is equipment associated with the
             business, and accordingly it is not included in the analysis of business impacts.
             As a personal trailer, business use of the trailer for business shipments or
             deliveries would not be permitted.

        L. Yards: Yards surrounding the dwelling and accessory buildings shall not be used for
           any activities or storage of any materials associated with the home occupation.

             -The applicants did not address this standard in their responses (exhibit G). The
             applicants have not proposed to use yard areas for activities or storage of
             equipment associated with the business.

        M. Customers: No customers allowed. Children accessing a limited daycare or limited
           preschool facility shall not be considered customers.

             -The applicants will not have any customers coming to the home.

        N. Utility Demand: The home occupation shall not cause a demand for public utilities in
           excess of that necessarily and customarily provided for residential uses.

            -The home occupation creates an additional demand for trash removal services.
            This was not addressed by the applicants in their submittal documents (exhibit
            G). Staff has included a condition that this be remedied through contracting for
            additional removal services.

        O. Main Structure: The home occupations shall be conducted, located, and contained
           within the primary structure on the property.

             -Office work is done in a spare bedroom in the home with majority of shipping
             and inventory work being done in the garage. The site plan provided by the
             applicant (exhibit F) does not dimension or detail the size of the spare bedroom,
             or the garage. See staff responses to criteria E and H for recommended



Raining Hot Coupons, LLC                                          App. # 2023-4587-USE
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit          10
             conditions to limit the square footage utilized by business operations within the
             home and the garage.

        P. Single-Family And Multiple-Family Dwellings: Home occupations listed as permitted or
           conditional within this title may be permitted in a single-family or a multiple-family
           dwelling, subject to the standards found within this section and section 9-34-060 of
           this chapter. Businesses within multiple-family dwellings shall provide an approval
           letter from the respective homeowners' association, or management company in the
           case of apartments, if the business proposes any employees, customers or business
           vehicles.

             -The home occupation is located within a single-family dwelling. The limited
             assembly and repair use is listed as a conditional use in DCMC chapter 9-34.

        Q. Licensure: Any home occupation involving childcare shall comply with all applicable
           state and local laws and regulations regarding residential childcare, including, but
           not limited to, provisions of the Utah child care licensing act, as set forth in Utah
           Code Annotated section 26-39-101 et seq., as amended, and the residential certificate
           childcare standards as set forth in the Utah administrative code section R430-50-1 et
           seq., as amended. In addition, cottage food production operations are regulated and
           inspected by the Utah department of agriculture. Any food related home occupation
           under their jurisdiction must comply with these regulations.

             -This home business does not include childcare or food handling.

Criteria For Approval.
The criteria for review and potential approval of a conditional use permit request is found
in Section 9-5-080(E) of the DCMC. This section depicts the standard of review for such
requests as:

        E. Approval Standards: The standards of this subsection shall apply to the issuance of a
            conditional use permit:
         1. A conditional use permit may be issued for a use to be located within a zone where
            the particular conditional use is allowed by the use regulations of the zone.
         2. Reasonable conditions may be imposed as necessary to substantially mitigate
            reasonably anticipated detrimental effects of the proposed use. These conditions may
            include conditions concerning use, construction, character, location, landscaping,
            screening, parking, hours of operation, and other matters relating to the purposes
            and objectives of this section. Such conditions shall be expressly set forth in the
            motion authorizing the conditional use permit.
         3. If the reasonably anticipated detrimental effects of a proposed conditional use
            cannot be substantially mitigated by the imposition of reasonable conditions to
            achieve compliance with applicable standards, the conditional use may be denied.



Raining Hot Coupons, LLC                                         App. # 2023-4587-USE
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit         11
          4. The following factors shall be reviewed and considered in determining whether a
             conditional use permit application should be approved, approved with conditions, or
             denied because reasonable conditions cannot be imposed to achieve compliance with
             applicable standards:
              a. The harmony and compliance of the proposed use with the objectives and
                  requirements of the city's general plan and this title;
              b. The suitability of the specific property for the proposed use;
              c. Whether the proposed use or facility may be injurious to potential or existing
                  development in the vicinity;
              d. The economic impact of the proposed facility or use on the surrounding area;
              e. The aesthetic impact of the proposed facility or use on the surrounding area;
              f. The safeguards proposed or provided to ensure adequate utilities, transportation
                  access, drainage, parking, loading space, lighting, screening, landscaping, open
                  space, fire protection, and pedestrian and vehicular circulation;
              g. The safeguards provided or proposed to prevent noxious or offensive emissions
                  such as noise, glare, dust, pollutants and odor from the proposed facility or use;
                  and
              h. The impact of the proposed facility or use on the health, safety, and welfare of the
                  city, the area, and persons owning or leasing property in the area.
          5. The planning commission may request additional information as may be reasonably
             needed to determine whether the requirements of this subsection E can be met.



REVIEWS
Planning Division Review. The Draper City Planning Division has completed their review of
the Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit submission. Comments from this division, if
any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Engineering and Public Works Divisions Review. The Draper City Engineering and Public
Works Divisions have completed their reviews of the Home Occupation Conditional Use
Permit submission. Comments from these divisions, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Building Division Review. The Draper City Building Division has completed their review of the
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit submission. Comments from this division, if any,
can be found in Exhibit A.

Fire Division Review. The Draper City Fire Marshal has completed his review of the Home
Occupation Conditional Use Permit.

Noticing. Notice has been properly issued in the manner outlined in the City and State
Codes.




Raining Hot Coupons, LLC                                            App. # 2023-4587-USE
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit            12
STAFF RECOMMENDATION
Based on the analysis above, staff recommends that the Planning Commission deny the
request based on the findings listed below and the criteria for denial, as listed within the
staff report. The Planning Commission should also review the request, hear from the
applicant, and receive public comment prior to making a decision.

If the Planning Commission decides to approve the request, staff recommends they include
the following as conditions of approval:

    1.       That all business requirements of the Draper City Engineering, Public Works
             Building, Business Licensing, Planning and Fire Divisions are satisfied throughout
             the operation of the business.
    2.       A business license shall be obtained by the owner within 60 days from the date
             of approval by the Planning Commission, and shall be maintained for the life of
             the business.
    3.       No customers or patrons are allowed to come to the property.
    4.       That the hours of operation for the business remain within the typical business
             hours of 9:00 am – 7:00 pm, Monday through Friday.
    5.       That the number of non-resident employees not exceed two (2).
    6.       That within 30 days from the date of Planning Commission approval a scaled
             and dimensioned site plan be provided to planning staff designating the
             locations where parking for personal vehicles and employee vehicles will occur
             on the site.
    7.       That a minimum of two (2) on-site parking spaces be designated and available
             for parking of employee’s personal vehicles. The employee parking spaces may
             not be located in tandem with, or otherwise impede access to the minimum two
             (2) required parking spaces for use of residents located inside the garage.
    8.       That all business-related parking be maintained on-site, including employee and
             delivery vehicles.
    9.       That the use of the minimum two (2) required parking spaces for residents of the
             dwelling located inside a garage be restored and be maintained for the life of the
             business. These spaces must meet the minimum size requirements of the
             zoning ordinance, and must be clearly delineated by striping or other physical
             means so that it is clear that they are not a part of the business area.
    10.      That the area of business operations inside the structure be limited to the one
             bedroom located inside the dwelling currently dedicated to office use per the
             submitted diagram, and additional area for inventory and processing located
             inside the attached garage, not including the required parking stalls for
             residential use. The total square footage of business operations not to exceed
             1,138 sq. ft. No additional expansion into other areas of the home or garage
             shall be permitted.
    11.      That within 30 days from the date of the Planning Commission approval that the
             applicant provides planning staff with a scaled and dimensioned floor plan for all



Raining Hot Coupons, LLC                                        App. # 2023-4587-USE
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit         13
             floors of the dwelling, including the attached garage depicting the location,
             dimensions, and areas utilized for the business. The floor plan shall show how
             compliance with ordinance requirements and the other imposed conditions of
             the home occupation Conditional Use is achieved.
    12.      That no nuisance may be caused through the use of tools, items, equipment, or
             activities conducted at the property which are offensive or noxious by reason of
             the emission of odor, smoke, gas, vibration, magnetic interference, or noise.
    13.      That all deliveries to the residence and shipments from the residence be made
             by typical small and light duty delivery vehicles that do not exceed FHWA class 2.
             Deliveries by other vehicles FHWA class 3 or greater are prohibited, with the
             exception of deliveries made by class 3 delivery vans typically used for
             residential deliveries by the US Post Office, and similar courier services.
    14.      That all deliveries and shipments shall be scheduled on weekdays only, for mid-
             day between the hours 11:00 am and 2:00 pm to reduce noise and potential
             traffic impacts for other nearby residences.
    15.      No activities shall be carried on outside the dwelling in the yard for the benefit of
             the home occupation.
    16.      No outside storage of inventory or equipment related to the business shall be
             allowed.
    17.      That trash, refuse, and recycling generated by the business be collected and
             disposed of in separate containers from the residential trash and recycling. The
             containers for business use shall resemble the containers for the residential use.
             No dumpsters may be placed on site.
    18.      That failure to provide planning staff with site plan or floor plans within the 30
             day deadline that are acceptable to planning staff, or failure to complete all
             necessary steps to obtain a business license within the 60 day deadline shall
             result in the Planning Commission approval being null and void.
    19.      That violation of any of these conditions or other ordinances pertaining to the
             home-based business may result in the revocation of the Conditional Use
             Permits and business license as provided for in DCMC Sections 6-1-040, 9-7-060
             and 9-34-070.

The findings for approval as are follows:

    1.       Reasonable mitigation measures can be placed on the conditional use, through
             the included conditions, to alleviate anticipated detrimental effects, including
             parking.
    2.       The proposed use with the imposition of the included conditions, will not, under
             the circumstances of the particular case, be detrimental to the health, safety, or
             general welfare of persons residing or working in the vicinity, or injurious to
             property or improvements in the vicinity.
    3.       The proposed use, with the imposition of the included conditions, will comply
             with applicable regulations and conditions specified in ordinance and will comply



Raining Hot Coupons, LLC                                          App. # 2023-4587-USE
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit           14
             with the intent of the City General Plan.

The findings for denial as are follows:

    1.       The applicant has not submitted all necessary documentation and information
             as requested.
    2.       The proposal does not address all existing and anticipated detrimental effects of
             the business, and these impacts are not able to be mitigated through the
             imposition of reasonable mitigation measures.
    3.       The proposed use is not in harmony with the objectives and requirements of the
             city's general plan and will be detrimental to the health, safety, or general
             welfare of persons residing or working in the vicinity, or injurious to property or
             improvements in the vicinity.
    4.       The proposed use does not comply with applicable regulations and conditions
             specified in ordinance or does not comply with the intent of the City General
             Plan.
    5.       The specific property is not suitable for the magnitude of the proposed use.



MODEL MOTIONS
Sample Motion for Denial – I move that we deny the Raining Hot Coupons, LCC Home
Occupation Conditional Use Permit, as requested by Sarah Gibbons representing
application 2023-4587-USE based on the findings and subject to the conditions listed in the
Staff Report dated March 7, 2024.

Sample Motion for Approval – I move that we approve Raining Hot Coupons, LLC Home
Occupation Conditional Use Permit, as requested by Sarah Gibbons representing
application 2023-4587-USE based on the findings and subject to the conditions listed in the
Staff Report dated March 7, 2024.

Sample Motion for Modified Approval– I move that we approve Raining Hot Coupons, LLC
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit, as requested by Sarah Gibbons representing
application 2023-4587-USE based on the findings and subject to the conditions listed in the
Staff Report dated March 7, 2024 and as modified by the findings and conditions below:

         1. List any additional findings and conditions…




Raining Hot Coupons, LLC                                         App. # 2023-4587-USE
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit          15
                                       EXHIBIT A
                                  DEPARTMENT REVIEWS

REVIEWS ARE NOT MEANT TO BE AN ALL INCLUSIVE LIST OF POSSIBLE COMMENTS OR
CONDITIONS.

Planning Division Review.

    1. Staff comments and concerns have primarily been included in the body of the
       report. Statements and submittal documents provided to staff by the applicants are
       very inadequate to determine specifics as to the extend of current operations or the
       full extent of what is being requested. The limited assembly and repair use is
       intended to be for small scale production of items produced one at a time in small
       quantities or on a made to order basis and not for mass production. Staff is mainly
       concerned with the existing detrimental impacts to the neighborhood such as noise,
       increased business and delivery traffic, increased demands on utility services, and
       the like. These impacts are principally being created by the large magnitude of the
       business operations which magnitude conflicts with definition of the type of home
       occupational use that is allowed.

Engineering and Public Works Divisions Review.

   1. The present and future requirements for transportation, traffic, water, sewer, and other
      utilities for the subject site do not appear to be detrimentally impacted as described.
      Given the location and proposed use, the use is not anticipated to generate a significant
      impact to water, sewer, or other potential utilities.

   2. The number of trips generated by the home owner/employees will not have a
      detrimental impact to traffic in the area due the stated number of employees, two or
      three at any given time, and no customers visiting the residence where all the
      products are shipped based on internet sales. The applicant has indicated all services
      will be online while the products are packaged and shipped from the residence. With
      the applicant’s anticipation that there will be no more than two or three employees
      plus the applicant at a time at the residence and no customers, no significant impact
      to traffic is anticipated with the proposed use.

   3. The applicant has indicated that she has each employee park in the driveway but
      occasionally there may be a car parked in the public right-of-way. Stag Hill Circle, at the
      indicated address, is a cul-de-sac and is a public local street where on-street parking is
      currently permitted. Parking on Stag Hill Cir may impact traffic if it is during poor weather
      or if there are other cars parked on the opposite side or within the cul-de-sac. However,
      based on the information from the applicant, no significant impact to parking is
      anticipated with the proposed use.
   4. The proposed use does not appear detrimental to the health, safety, or general welfare
      of the persons residing or working in the vicinity, or injurious to the property or
      improvements in the vicinity.

   We appreciate the opportunity to review and provide comments related to the subject
   application. If you have any further questions, please call.

Building Division Review.

       1. No additional comments provided.

Fire Division Review.

       1. No additional comments provided.
  EXHIBIT B
VICINITY MAP
 EXHIBIT C
AERIAL MAP
  EXHIBIT D
LAND USE MAP
 EXHIBIT E
ZONING MAP
          EXHIBIT F
FLOOR PLAN (INITIAL SUBMITTAL)
               EXHIBIT G
APPLICANT STATEMENTS (INITIAL SUBMITTAL)
Narrative for Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit related to an online boutique. Here's a summary
of its contents:



Nature and Proposed Use: The business owner operates an online boutique offering curated fashion and
accessories. Key activities include managing the online interface, customer communications, inventory
management, and shipping orders. The digital nature of the business minimizes neighborhood
disturbances.



Parking and Hours of Operation: The business employs 2-3 people, working from 9:00 AM to 7:00 PM,
Monday to Friday. Parking for all employees is arranged in the driveway of the property, preventing on-
street parking issues and maintaining neighborhood aesthetics.



Expected Patrons and Employees: There are no in-person visits from patrons, as the business is entirely
online. The 2-3 employees are aware of the need to respect the residential environment's tranquility.



Proposed Site Improvements: No significant external site improvements are planned. The home's
exterior will remain unchanged. Internally, a room will be designated for inventory storage and order
packaging.



Anticipated Detrimental Effects and Mitigation:



Traffic: The presence of 2-3 employees may slightly increase traffic, but driveway parking is intended to
mitigate congestion or parking issues.

Noise: Occasional noise is expected during inventory deliveries or shipments. Deliveries will be
scheduled during mid-day to minimize disruptions.

In summary, the narrative outlines that the online boutique is designed to operate with a minimal
footprint in its residential setting. The business owner commits to maintaining harmony within the
environment, respecting city guidelines and neighborly peace.
From:                                                                                Tosh Hays <toshkhays@gmail.com>
Sent:                                                                                Wednesday, January 17, 2024 8:41 PM
To:                                                                                  Tevai Haunga
Subject:                                                                             Re: [EXT] Re: Conditional Use Permit additional info


[EXTERNAL SENDER! Only open attachments/links you know are safe.]

1. I'm writing to request permission to have two nonfamily or nonresident employees for my home-
based business. It's important to note that this will result in two additional vehicles at my residence, in
addition to our three personal vehicles. I assure you that I have a plan to manage this parking situation
effectively to prevent any disruption to our neighborhood's residential character. 2. I also want to
address the proposed expansion of our inventory and shipping area to 1,671 square feet. This expansion
includes not just the garage, which will be used for shipping intake and storage, but also an office space
inside my home. This layout is designed to support the operational needs of my business while
maintaining the residential nature of the property. 3. Regarding the occasional deliveries that will be
conducted outside the main residential structure, I will provide specifics on their frequency and scale.
My aim is to ensure that these activities do not lead to increased traffic or cause any disruption in the
neighborhood. 4. Finally, I am committed to adhering to Draper City’s Development Standards in all
aspects of my home-based business. This includes strict adherence to regulations concerning structural
modifications, signage, and utility demands. I am prepared to present a detailed plan to ensure full
compliance with these standards.



The link ed image cannot be display ed. The file may hav e been mov ed,
renamed, or deleted. Verify that the link points to the correct file and location.




On Wed, Jan 17, 2024 at 4:46 PM Tevai Haunga <Tevai.Haunga@draperutah.gov> wrote:

            Hi Tosh,



            I got the pics. Thank you. Can you tell me how many personal vehicles you have and how many
            employee vehicles come to the property during work hours? Also what is the square footage used for
            inventory and the home office. If I’m measuring a rough estimate of just the garage I have about 500-
            600 sq ft in inventory? Please confirm these numbers. Thank you!




            From: Tosh Hays <toshkhays@gmail.com>
            Sent: Wednesday, January 17, 2024 3:57 PM
            To: Tevai Haunga <Tevai.Haunga@draperutah.gov>
            Subject: Re: [EXT] Re: Conditional Use Permit additional info
            EXHIBIT H
INTERIOR PHOTOS (INITIAL SUBMITTAL)
    EXHIBIT I
PUBLIC COMMENTS
Tevai Haunga

From:                 David Werts <david.werts@comcast.net>
Sent:                 Wednesday, January 31, 2024 3:22 PM
To:                   Tevai Haunga
Subject:              [EXT] Planning Commission - CUP Application #2023-4587-USE


[EXTERNAL SENDER! Only open attachments/links you know are safe.]

I live across the street to the southeast of this property that is reques&ng the condi&onal use permit(my home is 1962 E
Stag Hill Circle). My wife and I oppose allowing this change in use. We already have a neighbor that has a salon in their
basement that brings lots of cars to the cul-de-sac and is not appropriate for a quiet residen&al street. This is why ci&es
have property Zoning, businesses that have employees and customers should lease or buy space in appropriately zoned
parts of Draper City or elsewhere. I am in commercial real estate, there are lots of vacant commercial spaces from very
small(much smaller than this house) to large, where these businesses can prosper and improve the economy. Allowing
commercial uses in residen&al areas is NOT THE ANSWER.

Thank you for your service to the city.

On a side note, I do not think this applicant even owns the property, they are only ren&ng the home temporarily. Either
way an excep&on should not be made, but if it was the home owner I would feel a li9le be9er considering they would
hopefully be more respec:ul of the neighbors and impact their business ac&vi&es would have on the neighborhood.

Sincerely,

David & Molly Werts

David C. Werts
Principal



801-996-8626 Office
360-566-5556 Cell




                                                             1
Tevai Haunga

From:              Amie Hammer <hammera99@yahoo.com>
Sent:              Wednesday, February 7, 2024 6:01 PM
To:                Tevai Haunga
Subject:           [EXT] Letter from Amie and John Delaney on Stag Ridge Drive re: Notice of Public Hearing for Sarah
                   Gibbons (keep names confidential)


[EXTERNAL SENDER! Only open attachments/links you know are safe.]

To: Draper City Hall Planning Commission/Community Development

Re: Sarah Gibbons/Raining Hot Coupons, Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit Request on February 8th,
2024
   property located at 1935 E. Stag Hill Circle

We have been homeowners in Draper for 15 years. We live in the Stag Hill Circle/Stag Ridge Drive area in
Draper and are writing this letter to the Draper City Council requesting the permit request by Sarah Gibbons for
an assembly and repair, limited home occupation be rejected. In this letter, we will provide our personal
perspective (namely, how it’s been a nuisance and has negatively impacted the nature of our neighborhood)
along with what appear to be several violations of Draper’s development standards.

Starting with our personal experience, Ms. Gibbons has been running her business “Raining Hot Coupons” out
of her rental home (1935 E. Stag Hill Circle) since she moved into our neighborhood last spring (2023). After
receiving a notice of public hearing from Draper City Hall (last week), it appears she must have been running
her business this whole time without a permit as well. Or, at the very least, she seems to have been operating
in violation of several permitted use codes, which we have listed below.

For starters, I’m surprised you would even consider granting Ms. Gibbons additional rights to disrupt our
neighborhood further when she is not the homeowner of that residence. And from our vantage, we don’t think
it’s a slippery slope to fear what should befall our neighborhood should further concessions from our existing
RA2 zoning be made. Based on our experience so far, it seems only logical that matters will get worse if more
employees are allowed to park on our street and circle, more customers allowed to visit their home, more
delivery trucks to drop off new product … and more garbage (packing materials, etc.) from her five
garbage/recycling bins which does, from time to time, tip over and blow into others’ yards.

As our street is steep and ends in a circle, it does not not allow for extra parking or easy maneuvering when
multiple vehicles are constantly parked all over the place. During the winter this can be especially troubling as
snow plows have had to navigate with caution and sometimes weren’t able to plow our road as effectively with
all of the extra vehicles parked on the street relating to Ms. Gibbon’s business. This may be due to the fact that
at least one of Ms. Gibbon’s garages is being used as a warehouse/ storage unit, so whatever vehicles don’t fit
on her driveway, are parked on the street, which can leave little room for other residents’ family and guest
vehicles.

To illustrate this point, we know the postman has not been able to deliver mail to one of her neighbors because
the vehicles from Ms. Gibbon’s employees and/or delivery trucks have parked directly in front of their mailbox
for weeks on end. How do we know that? Everyone could see all the cars that were always parked in front of
the Ereksons’ house and mailbox. They had to physically relocate their mailbox to start receiving mail again.
While that hasn’t been a problem for us yet, I’m nervous about what expanded business operations might look
like if more people need to park on our street to conduct business there. And, frankly speaking, we paid a lot of
money to buy a house in this neighborhood, so we wouldn’t have to worry about stuff like this.

In addition to our personal concerns, here are some of the codes we think are being violated:

                                                         1
9-34-040: DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS; PERMITTED USE: [Comments in Red]
The development standards set forth in this section shall apply to any home occupation allowed as a permitted
use:
A. Ownership: The home occupation shall be owned and operated by a person who resides in the dwelling
where the home occupation is located. Such person shall be the primary provider of the labor, work, or service
provided in the home occupation. [Since Sarah Gibbons is NOT the owner of this house, why is their request
even under consideration?]
C. Employees: Members of the family of the owner who reside in the dwelling may be employed in the home
occupation. Nonfamily or nonresident employees shall be limited to one person. [They clearly have more than
one employee physically working there who is not a resident of that house.]
E. Inventory: No stock in trade, inventory, or other merchandise to exceed two hundred fifty (250) square feet
shall be kept on the premises. No outside storage is allowed. (Ord. 909, 7-21-2009) [They really have to be
cutting it close on this one. I wouldn’t be surprised at all if this was in violation as well, given all the space being
used for storage already.]
G. Nuisance: Tools, items, equipment, or activities conducted within the dwelling which is offensive or noxious
by reason of the emission of odor, smoke, gas, vibration, magnetic interference, or noise shall be prohibited. A
lot of the trash from their business finds its way onto the yards of other Stag Hill Circle/Stag Ridge Drive
residents when the canyon wind tips over Ms. Gibbon’s garbage cans spilling out non-bagged trash/packing
material, etc.
J. Traffic, Parking, And Access: No home occupation use shall generate pedestrian, parking, or vehicular
traffic in excess of that customarily associated with the zone in which the use is located. All parking shall be
provided and maintained on site with adequate provision for drop off traffic. [Since their house is on a circle,
they have no strip in the front of their house for additional parking–resulting in their own vehicles along with
employees, customers, delivery trucks, etc. parking in front of other people’s property (oftentimes for extended
periods of time).]
M. Customers: No customers allowed. Children accessing a limited daycare or limited preschool facility shall
not be considered customers. [Customers do, in fact, visit there. In fact, right when they moved in, they had a
month-long+ garage sale.]




                                                           2
         I am writing in response to the request by the renter Sarah Gibbons at 1935 East Stag Hill Circle,
for a permit to allow her to expand her business use of the property and strongly request that the
permit is denied. I live in the joining property on the west side of the home she rents and was surprised
that as a renter she could request this kind of permit. Since moving in there have been multiple events
that have made it unpleasant and made it so I no longer like the street that I live on.

         Since Ms. Gibbons moved in, she moved in with at least 2 employees from day one even though
she had not a permit to do so. I have talked with and seen them come with regularity. Often they park
on the street in front of her home and in front of my own. Her employees would frequently park in front
of my mailbox which was next to our property line and so I would not get my mail because the mail
truck could not access my mail box. After the 3rd occasion when this happened I spoke with her
employee and told him as he was exiting his vehicle that was blocking my mailbox that I had again
missed the mail that day and that I would need him to move his vehicle. He said “ok” and went back in
to Ms. Gibbions rental home but never moved it. The very next day the cars of her employees were on
the street again and so I walked up to speak with Ms. Gibbions. Her employee answered the door and
she stood behind him. I told them politely that I had missed my mail 3 days last week and that I would
need then to move their vehicle before the mail delivery came. Ms. Gibbions would not engage in
conversation and walk away. The employee said “ok” but made no move to do anything until I insisted
that it needed to happen right then. After a couple of months of this inconvenience, my husband and I
finally paid to have a brick mason move our mailbox and place it so her cars could no longer block it.

        During this time we also began having to deal with Ms. Gibbions 3 German Sheppard’s which
she would leave out on her back deck who bark all day long except when they would come down to the
fence and bark at me or members of my family and it intensifies whenever we went outside into our
own yard. We are on a slope and so Ms. Gibbions deck looks down into our and her dogs could see
whenever we came out side. We have not been able to entertain friends or have a meal outside since
Ms. Gibbons moved into her rental. I had gone over to her home to speak with her on 4 different
occasion to talk about this and no one would answer the door so I left a note 2 times explaining my the
concern and asking her to call me and asking her to please be mindful of us. My husband became
disabled a few years ago and his health is declining and the constant barking all day has made it difficult
for him to rest at all. To this day she has never called or ever responded in any way to my overtures to
have a conversation. I include this because I think it shows her character. She has no interest in
developing positive relationships with her neighbors in any way.

          Additionally her business endeavors create additional traffic on our steep circle which is already
difficult to navigate. I am unsure where she thinks her employees can even park. My residence has 2
drivers that park on the street and the Needs and the Wert’s have drivers that live in their homes that
need to park on the street and Ms. Gibbons other neighbor already has a permit for customers to come
and go while she does hair. The first month Ms. Gibbons moved in she ran sales out of her property for a
month selling furniture and clothing from her business. While is to be expected thtat neighbors hold
garage sales occasionally this felt excessive and made it difficult to even turn into our driveway becsue
of the amount of people due to her online presence and traffic was great for this extended period of
time. Separately from this there are trucks that make deliveries and trucks that stop on our street on a
regular basis to move her merchandise. Additionally, because of her business she generates a
tremendous amount of trash. Her garbage cans are always out overflowing with the lids open. This
makes my yard a collection place for all sorts of shipping, garment bags, packing paper and various
debris with her name on it that blow into my yard which I have to pick up regularly. On the times when
it has been windy and her cans have blown over she has not once come to collect it from my front yard
even after I let it sit for a day even though she can see that it is hers.

         I have not included all of the grievances that I have with regard to Ms. Gibbons as I have tried to
focus most of my comments on the business aspects of my concern but to sum it up I have never lived
next to someone so inconsiderate of basic common courtesy’s that a neighbor should have. She has
shown she has no investment in our street and neighborhood. She does not care that her actions
adversely impact her neighbors and makes it so living on my street is unpleasant. This has been
especially hard on our family because it is stressful for my husband. She has consistently thumbed her
nose at the law which she has been well aware that she is breaking. I am concerned that if you give her
approval to expand her business privileges, what is the next level of laws that she will thumb her nose at
and apologize later about? I express this with some concern that there will be some form of retaliation
possible but feel this would negatively impact our neighborhood greatly. I would hope as an actual
homeowner in Draper City that pays taxes and is invested in our community that my voice would not
count little in your consideration for this permit and more than someone who is transient and renting.

Sincerely,

Carol Erekson

1921 East Stag Hill Cir, Draper
Tevai Haunga

From:                Carol erekson <carolerekson@hotmail.com>
Sent:                Thursday, February 8, 2024 1:34 PM
To:                  Tevai Haunga
Subject:             [EXT] applicant Sarah Gibbions


[EXTERNAL SENDER! Only open attachments/links you know are safe.]

Regarding: Sarah Gibbons raining Hot Coupons 1935 E Stag Hill Cir.

After reading the proposal and response from the applicant I think some additional details regarding parking should be
mentioned. The applicant indicates that the employees can park on her driveway but as mentioned the garage is used
for the business so the home owner and her cohabitant park outside and the applicant has children. The applicant parks
her vehicle on the driveway but her partner parks his truck and attached trailer on the street taking up almost the entire
space in front of the home she rents. When delivery’s come or delivery services come to load up the merchandise she is
sending out from her business they often back into her driveway in order to do so. This requires those parked on her
driveway to all end up on the street occupying’s a significant amount of the curb on our street and not limited to in front
of her residence. I do not feel it is an accurate representation to create the picture that vehicles can possibly be
contained to the space in front of the home she occupies and her driveway.




                                                             1
     EXHIBIT J
UPDATED FLOOR PLAN
            EXHIBIT K
ADDITIONAL APPLICANT STATEMENTS
       EXHIBIT L
UPDATED INTERIOR PHOTOS
   EXHIBIT M
UPDATED SITE PLAN
                                                                                                                                                    GENERAL & KEYED NOTES

                                  S 89° 52' 43" E

                                        105.05'




                                                    N 0° 02' 27" E

                                                                     190.40'
N 0° 02' 27" E

                 190.43'




                                                                                                                                                 TIMPHAVEN
                                                                                                                                                   DESIGN




                                                                                                            NORTH
                                                                                                                                          291 E 950 S - Orem, UT 84058       C: 301.512.6859




                                                                               60                 40                   20    10   5   0
                                                                                                                                           Sarah
                                                                                                          SCALE                            Gibbons
                                                                                    SUBDIVISION INFORMATION                               Applicant: Tosh Hays

                                                                                                                                          Contractor shall verify all dimensions, conditions
                                                                                    City                            Draper                and measurements at the job prior to construction.
                                                                                                                                          These plans and documents are the property of
                           S 89° 53' 57" E                                          State                            Utah
                                                                                                                                          TimpHaven Design, and any reuse or further
                                                                                                                                          distribution thereof in part or in whole without the
                                                                                                                                          written permission of the designer is strictly
                                                                                                                                          prohibited. Designer is not an architect or engineer.
                              105.05'                                               Plat                                                   C Copyright 2024 TimpHaven Design




                                                                                                                                                                                                  SITE PLAN
                                                                                    Lot                        Lot 9                      12 x 18 (sheet size): 1"=20'-0"

                           STAG HILL CIRCLE                                         Subdivision        Hunter Ridge At Draper
                                                                                                                                          24 x 36 (sheet size): 1"=10'-0"
                                                                                                                                           Project: Hays
                                                                                    Address             1935 E. Stag Hill Cir.
                                                                                                                                           07 Feb. 2024                     C2.1
