MINUTES OF THE DRAPER CITY PLANNING COMMISSION MEETING HELD ON
THURSDAY, MARCH 14, 2024, IN THE DRAPER CITY COUNCIL CHAMBERS

PARTICIPATING: Andrew Adams, Chair
               Commission Member Susan Nixon
               Commission Member Gary Ogden
               Commission Member Kendra Shirey
               Commission Member Mary Squire
               Alternate Commission Member Christine Green

EXCUSED:             Lisa Fowler, Vice-Chair
                     Alternate Commission Member Laura Fidler
                     Alternate Commission Member Shivam Shah

STAFF PRESENT: Jennifer Jastremsky, Community Development Director
               Todd Draper, Planning Manager
               Mike Barker, City Attorney
               Spencer DuShane, Assistant City Attorney
               Brien Maxfield, Senior Engineer Manager
               Amie Salazar, Office Manager
               Maryann Pickering, Planner III
               Tevai Haunga, City Planner I
               Don Buckley, Fire Marshal

6:30 PM Business Meeting

Chair Andrew Adams called the meeting to order and welcomed those present.

1.     Items for Commission Consideration.

      A.      Action Item: Approve Planning Commission Meeting Minutes for February 8,
              2024 (Administrative Action).

Motion: Commissioner Squire moved to APPROVE the Planning Commission Meeting
Minutes from February 8, 2024.

Second: Commissioner Ogden.

Vote: A roll call was taken with the Commissioners voting 5-to-0 in favor of the motion.
Commissioners Ogden, Squire, Nixon, Shirey, and Green voted “Yes”. The motion passed
unanimously.

      B.      Action Item: Approve Planning Commission Meeting Minutes for February 22,
              2024 (Administrative Action).

Motion:      Commissioner Nixon moved to APPROVE the Planning Commission Meeting
Minutes from February 22, 2024, as written.
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
March 14, 2024
Page 2

Second:        Commissioner Squire.

Vote: A roll call was taken with the Commissioners voting 5-to-0 in favor of the motion.
Commissioners Ogden, Squire, Nixon, Shirey, and Green voted “Yes”. The motion passed
unanimously.

       C.      Public Hearing: Raining Hot Coupons, LLC Home Occupation Conditional Use
               Permit (Administrative Action).
               On the request of Sarah Gibbons for a Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit for
               an assembly and repair, limited home-based business. The property is located at
               approximately 1935 East Stag Hill Circle in the RA2 (Residential Agricultural 20,000
               square foot minimum lot size) zone. Application 2023-4587-USE. Staff contact is
               Tevai Haunga, 801-576-6522, tevai.haunga@draperutah.gov.           This item was
               continued from the February 8, 2024, meeting.

Planner I, Tevai Haunga presented the Staff Report and stated that the request is for approval of a
home occupation for Sarah Gibbons on property zoned RA2. The use is a limited assembly and repair
home-based business with online sales and three (3) non-residential, non-family employees. The
property is part of the Hunter Ridge at Draper subdivision and the home was built in 2005. The home-
based business application was originally filed in June of 2023 as a result of City Code enforcement
actions where the applicant was cited for operating without a Business License. Resolution of the
citation regarding the lack of a Business License is currently pending in a separate court case. The
applicant reportedly did not appear at the previous two court dates. The business is operating outside
of the permitted use standards for home occupations and may not receive a Business License to
continue operating without first obtaining a Conditional Use Permit. The application for Raining Hot
Coupons was first presented to the Planning Commission on February 8, 2024, and was continued to
the March 14, 2024 meeting. The applicant was given time to submit accurately scaled and
dimensioned floor plans and to propose mitigating conditions with regard to the current non-
compliance with required residential parking, Fire Code violations, and displacement of the primary
residential use by the overall scale of the operation. The applicants were emailed a list of the
documents needed for re-submission but did not provide the requested information prior to the Staff
Report being written. The applicants met with the Fire Marshall for a Fire Inspection to resolve fire
concerns.

Staff recommended denial of the Conditional Use Permit as there are detrimental impacts to the
neighborhood that are not able to be mitigated through the imposition of reasonable conditions. The
development standards were enumerated in the Staff Report.

Chair Adams opened the public hearing.

David Wertz, a neighborhood resident, reported that he works in the real estate industry. It was his
opinion that the proposed use should not be in this high-end neighborhood and has an impact.

Carol Erekson, a neighborhood resident, was also surprised by the business. She stated that they are
running a very productive business from the home.
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
March 14, 2024
Page 3

There were no further public comments. The public hearing was closed.

Planning Manager, Todd Draper, stated that enforcement is of concern as this is a commercial
business. It was noted that the applicants committed to only allow deliveries between 11:00 AM and
2:00 PM.

Chair Adams stated that it will be necessary to ensure that the use is not a nuisance.

City Attorney, Mike Barker, reported that the criteria for receiving a Conditional Use Permit is to
identify potential detrimental effects and use the Code standards to provide reasonable mitigation and
decide whether they can be reasonably mitigated. He was concerned that they were discussing
garbage but asked if anyone had quantified how much business is generated by the business. To
simply state that there is excessive garbage is subjective and needs to be quantified. Mr. Barker
recommended that if the Planning Commission approve the request, that it not be approved until all
of the documents have been submitted with a complete application.

Parking issues were discussed. It was noted that no Parking Plan has been submitted. It was
acknowledged that the points outlined in the Staff Report are important and need to be addressed.
The duty of the Commission is to ensure that they are addressed and mitigated to the extent possible.
Commissioner Ogden stated that having the applicants describe what they plan to do is not the same
as providing a Parking Plan. He did not think a determination could be made until that is provided.

The applicants, Tosh Heyes and Sarah Gibbons were present. Mr. Heyes stated that the two
employees will park in front of the garage and not in tandem. There are four stalls total. They own
two vehicles and two would be used by their employees. Mr. Heyes reported that a floating option
for parking works better than having to shuffle cars. It was noted that a trailer is used for trash. They
also no longer have semi-trucks come to the home. All items are sent via the US Mail and they are
on the same pick-up schedule as their neighbor who sells pickleball racquets.

Community Development Director, Jennifer Jastremsky noted that the parking involves more than
Mr. Heyes simply stating where the parking will occur because there is the potential to block resident
access to the garage. Parking options were discussed. The applicants were asked to provide the
specifics in a Parking Plan to be submitted to the City as requested. It was noted that home businesses
can be a nuisance. The vehicles that are to be at the home should be specified in the Parking Plan
along with the size of the cars to confirm that they meet the size requirements set forth in the
ordinance.

Mr. Heyes explained how deliveries are being dealt with. Outgoing shipments are picked up at the
same time each day and they are on the same schedule as their neighbor. Daily deliveries are made
by US mail each day and UPS on their regular schedule. He estimated that there are two to three
deliveries each week. The business was moved from a commercial to a residential space because the
business model was 90% in-house and 10% drop shipping. That has since been reversed and they are
moving toward more drop shipping. Mr. Heyes explained that the business model has changed from
when they were operating from a commercial facility.
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
March 14, 2024
Page 4

In response to a question raised, Mr. Heyes stated that merchandise pickup is not offered as an option
to customers. Outstanding issues were identified. It was noted that the application is incomplete.
Mr. Barker stated that approving a request when there is an incomplete application creates an
enforcement nightmare. 19 outstanding items remained to be addressed by the applicants. The
importance of documentation was stressed. Chair Adams suggested that the applicants address the
19 items and work with staff to rectify each.

Ms. Jastremsky reported that two previous public hearings have been held on the matter. As a result,
the potential to hold another at the next meeting when the matter is addressed would be at the
discretion of the Planning Commission.

Motion: Commissioner Squire moved to CONTINUE Application 2023-4587-USE to the April
25, 2024, Planning Commission Meeting.

Second: Commissioner Ogden.

Vote: A roll call was taken with the Commissioners voting 5-to-0 in favor of the motion.
Commissioners Ogden, Squire, Nixon, Shirey, and Green voted “Yes”. The motion passed
unanimously.

       D.      Public Hearing: Trailside Townhomes Plat Amendment (Administrative Item).
               On the request of David Tillotson, Representing IKON Development a Request to
               Amend the existing Maple Hollow Phases 10, 11, and 13 at Suncrest Plat to
               consolidate the six parcels owned by the applicant into one large parcel. The property
               is approximately 19.37 acres in size and located at 2142 East Brookings Drive in the
               RR-11 (Rural Residential), RR-43 (Rural Residential, and RM (Multiple Family)
               Zones. Application: 2023-4653-SUB. Staff contact is Maryann Pickering, 801-576-
               6391, maryann.pickering@draperutah.gov.

Planner III, Maryann Pickering presented the Staff Report and presented a Vicinity Map showing the
six existing parcels. The land use designation is Residential Medium-Density with three zoning
designations on the property consisting of RM, RR-22, and RR-43. The proposed subdivision
includes a Street Tree Plan. The request was initially approved by the Planning Commission in July
2022. The applicant obtained a six-month extension in May that expired in January 2024 due to not
being recorded. The proposal remains the same and is to consolidate the six lots into one. Because
the City’s Landscape Ordinance was updated last year, modifications need to be made to the street
trees along the public street. That has been updated with the current plat. The applicants are also
submitting an amended site plan application for development of the townhomes. The architectural
style had to be changed and will be approved at the staff level. The project includes 149 townhomes.
The proposed Street Tree Plan was found to meet the new standards that were adopted last year by
the City Council.

The applicant, David Tillotson, reported that they initially came to the Planning Commission in July
2022 for the plat consolidation and plat approval. They were also seeking site plan approval with
deviations they were requesting that were denied. He explained that the site plan is still approved and
active. The plat expired because it was approved in July and the site plan was approved in November.
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
March 14, 2024
Page 5

They are currently proposing a site plan amendment. Because the property is part of Suncrest, after
they were granted approval, they had to go back and work with Suncrest on the proposed roof design.
A change was made that impacted the drainage coming off of the buildings and necessitated a site
plan amendment. Other issues included rising interest rates, which created a difficult environment
for new development. They are now ready to proceed and have posted the required bonds.

Chair Adams opened the public hearing. There were no further public comments. The public hearing
was closed.

Motion: Commissioner Nixon moved to APPROVE the Trailside Townhomes Plat Amendment
as requested by David Tillotson, representing IKON Development subject to the following:

Conditions:

       1.     All requirements of the Draper City Engineering, Public Works, Building,
              Planning, and Fire Divisions shall be satisfied throughout the development of the
              site and the construction of all buildings on the site, including permitting.

       2.     All requirements of the Geotechnical Report shall be satisfied throughout the
              development of the site and the construction of all buildings on the site.

              a.      Prior to obtaining a Land Disturbance Permit addressing the following:
                      TG recommendation No. 2, in the December 13, 2021, TG Geotechnical
                      Engineering Review No. 2 (TG, 2021), is implemented by the City: “Before
                      commencement of mass grading, the City requires a project meeting to
                      review grading and earthwork requirements.”

              b.      Prior to obtaining a Building Permit: Summary of CMT Earthwork
                      Recommendations      and     Summary     of   CMT      Geotechnical
                      Recommendations for Plan Review in the December 13, 2021, TG
                      Geotechnical Engineering Review No. 2, (TG, 2021), are implemented
                      during Plan Review by the City.

              c.      Prior to obtaining a Land Disturbance Permit address the following: On
                      page 2 of the June 27, 2022, CMT document, CMT states:

                      •   “We also understand that a storm brick system will be constructed at
                          the site to collect and convey stormwater. The storm brick system will
                          discharge water to a couple locations at the fill slope face and water
                          will not be allowed to drain into the ground below the system.”
                      •   Based on a review of Sheet C3.0, Grading and Drainage Plan, and
                          Sheet C7.3, Construction Details, Trailside Townhomes, prepared by
                          Kimley Horn, dated June 6, 2022, it appears the proposed
                          “stormbrick” system will allow water to drain into the ground below
                          the stormwater system.
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
March 14, 2024
Page 6

                    •   If the “stormbrick” system is used as part of the development storm
                        drainage plan, before final permit approval by the City, TG
                        recommends the City REQUIRE CMT to update their global stability
                        analyses of the affected slopes to include seepage pressure derived
                        from the drainage water infiltrating the slope.

             d.     Prior to obtaining a Building Permit address the following: Under review
                    comment (2) in the July 11, 2022, TG review letter, TG stated:

                    •   “Should CMT rely on the Geopier/stone column specialty contractor
                        for the design analysis of the Geopiers/stone columns, TG recommends
                        the City request the specialty contractor provide the design analysis
                        for review.”
                    •   In response to the comment, the July 12, 2022, CMT response letter
                        stated:

                        “We understand that a specialty contractor will provide settlement
                        analysis for Geopiers/stone columns.”

                    •   Before final building plan permit approval, TG recommends the City
                        REQUIRE CMT to provide the settlement and bearing design analysis
                        for the Geopiers/stone columns for review.

      3.     All hydrants and a form of acceptable temporary Fire Department Access to the
             site shall be installed and APPROVED by the Fire Department prior to the
             issuance of any Building Permits. If at any time during the building phase, any of
             the hydrants or temporary Fire Department Access becomes non-compliant any
             and all permits could be revoked.

      4.     No combustible construction shall be allowed prior to hydrant installation and
             testing by the water purveyor. All hydrants must be operational prior to any
             combustible elements being received or delivered to the building site.

Findings:

      1.     There is good cause for the vacation or amendment; and no public street, right-
             of-way, or easement has been vacated or amended.

Second: Commissioner Shirey.

Vote: A roll call was taken with the Commissioners voting 5-to-0 in favor of the motion.
Commissioners Ogden, Squire, Nixon, Shirey, and Green voted “Yes”. The motion passed
unanimously.
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
March 14, 2024
Page 7

      E.     Public Hearing: Windsor Mill Townhomes Site Plan and Deviation Request
             (Administrative Action).
             On the request of David Jenkins, Representing Olsen and Associates, for a Site Plan
             for 30 Townhomes and a Deviation to Building Material Standards for 3.77 Acres of
             Land located in the RM2 Zone. The property is located at approximately 11450 South
             820 West. Applications 2023-0239-SP, 2024-4660VA. Staff contact is Jennifer
             Jastremsky, 801-576-6328, jennifer.jastremsky@draperutah.gov.

The above item was continued.

Motion: Commissioner Squire moved to CONTINUE agenda item 2E to the April 25, 2024,
Planning Commission Meeting.

Second: Commissioner Shirey.

Vote: A roll call was taken with the Commissioners voting 5-to-0 in favor of the motion.
Commissioners Ogden, Squire, Nixon, Shirey, and Green voted “Yes”. The motion passed
unanimously.

2.     Adjournment.

Motion: Commissioner Ogden moved to ADJOURN.

Vote: The motion passed with the unanimous consent of the Commission.

The meeting adjourned at 7:57 PM.
