MEMO
To: Planning Commission
From: Tevai Haunga
Date: 2024-01-11
Re: Public Hearing: Automatic Gate Installers Inc. Home Occupation Conditional Use
Permit (Administrative Action)


Comments:

This application is a request for approval of a Home Occupation for approximately 0.46
acres located at approximately 706 E. Osborne Estate Circle. The property is zoned RA2
(Residential Agricultural, 20,000 sq. ft. minimum lot size). The applicants are requesting
that a Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit be approved for a home office with (2)
non-family, non-resident employees coming to the home, and for the storage and use of
two (2) work vehicles as part of the business.


The findings for approval as are follows:



  1. Reasonable mitigation measures can be placed on the conditional use to alleviate
     anticipated detrimental effects, including parking.
  2. The proposed use will not, under the circumstances of the particular case, be
     detrimental to the health, safety, or general welfare of persons residing or working
     in the vicinity, or injurious to property or improvements in the vicinity.
  3. The proposed use of the particular location is necessary or desirable to provide a
     service or facility which will contribute to the general well-being of the
     neighborhood and the community.
  4. The proposed use will comply with applicable regulations and conditions specified
     in ordinance and will comply with the intent of the City General Plan.



The findings for denial as are follows:



  1. Reasonable mitigation measures cannot be placed on the conditional use to
     alleviate anticipated detrimental effects, including parking.
  2. The proposed use will be detrimental to the health, safety, or general welfare of
     persons residing or working in the vicinity, or injurious to property or improvements
     in the vicinity.
  3. The proposed use of the particular location is not necessary or desirable to provide
     a service or facility which will contribute to the general well-being of the
     neighborhood and the community.
  4. The proposed use does not comply with applicable regulations and conditions
     specified in ordinance or does not comply with the intent of the City General Plan.


ATTACHMENTS:

Automatic Gate Installers SR Final.pdf
