                                 Development Review Committee
                                      1020 East Pioneer Road
                                        Draper, UT 84020
                                          May 10, 2024

To:               Draper City Planning Commission
                  Business Date: May 23, 2024

From:             Development Review Committee

Prepared By: Todd Taylor, Planner III
             Planning Division
             Community Development Department
             801-576-6510, todd.taylor@draperutah.gov

Re:      Newberry Fence – Conditional Use Permit Request
         Application No.: 2024-0075-USE
         Applicant:        Brian Newberry
         Project Location: 12775 S. Costanza Way
         Current Zoning: RA2 (Residential Agricultural, 20,000 ft² lot minimum) Zone
         Acreage:          2.13 Acres (Approximately 92,783 ft2)
         Request:          Request for approval of a Conditional Use Permit in the RA2 zone
                           to allow an eight foot (8’) tall fence at the rear of the property.



BACKGROUND AND SUMMARY

This application is a request for approval of a Conditional Use Permit for approximately 2.13
acres located on the east side of Constanza Way, at approximately 12775 S. Costanza Way
(Exhibit B & C). The property is currently zoned RA2. The applicant is requesting that a
Conditional Use Permit be approved to allow an eight foot (8’) tall fence in the rear of the
property.

The property is comprised of two parcels (28-33-129-023 and 28-33-177-020) under the same
ownership. The parcels are located between Costanza Way to the west and the Draper Canal
Trail to the east. An existing home was removed and a new home and barn were built
between 2022 and 2023 on the northern parcel.




Newberry Fence                                                      App. No. 2024-0075-USE
Conditional Use Permit Request                 1
ANALYSIS

General Plan and Zoning.

 Table 1                    General Plan and Zoning Designations                       Exhibit
 Existing Land Use          Residential Low-Medium Density                             Exhibit D
 Current Zoning             RA2                                                        Exhibit E
 Existing Use               Single Family Residential / Vacant
 Adjacent Zoning
     East                   RA2
     West                   RA1 (Residential Agricultural, 40,000 ft² lot minimum)
     North                  A5 (Agricultural, 5 acre lot minimum)
     South                  A5

The Residential Low-Medium Density land use designation is characterized as follows:




Newberry Fence                                                          App. No. 2024-0075-USE
Conditional Use Permit Request                     2
According to Draper City Municipal Code (DCMC) Section 9-8-020: “The purpose of the RA1 and
RA2 zones is to foster low density development with little impact on its surroundings and municipal
services; to generally preserve the character of the city's semirural areas; and to promote and
preserve conditions favorable to large lot family life, including the keeping of limited numbers of
animals and fowl. The predominant use in these zones is intended to be detached single-family
dwellings, protected from encroachment by commercial and industrial uses.”

Fencing.

 Table 9                   Fencing Design Requirements
 Standard                  DCMC Requirements Proposal             Notes
 Fencing Required          No Fence Required
 Height
    Front                  4’                        8’           Majority at 4’, however an 8’
                                                                  portion is proposed to be
                                                                  located in the front yard of
                                                                  the southern property,
                                                                  adjacent to the canal.
     Rear                  Northern Parcel: 6’       8’           At the rear of the entire
                           Southern Parcel: 6’                    property along the canal.
     North Side            Northern Parcel: 6’       8’           Steps from 8’ to 6’ at the
                           Southern Parcel: 6’                    northeast corner.
     South Side            Northern Parcel:6’        8’           No fencing proposed
                           Southern Parcel: 6’ (4’                between the two properties.
                           in front yard area)                    Unique layout of the
                                                                  southern property as the
                                                                  side yard is in line with rear
                                                                  lot line of the northern
                                                                  property.
 Material                  N/A                       Wood

The applicant has requested to put an eight foot (8’) tall wood fence along the rear of the
property. The 8’ tall portions would be located in the rear, side, and front yards of the parcels
and would require a Conditional Use Permit per DCMC 9-27-080(A). A layout of the proposed
8’ tall fence location and the applicant’s justification for the request can be found in Exhibit
F & G of this report. The remainder of the proposed fencing complies with the City’s
standards. The applicant is requesting the proposed fence for privacy and security.




Newberry Fence                                                         App. No. 2024-0075-USE
Conditional Use Permit Request                       3
Criteria For Approval.

The criteria for review and potential approval of a conditional use permit request are found
in Section 9-5-080(E) of the DCMC. This section depicts the standard of review for such
requests as:

    E. Approval Standards: The standards of this subsection shall apply to the issuance of a
       conditional use permit:
       1. A conditional use permit may be issued for a use to be located within a zone where the
          particular conditional use is allowed by the use regulations of the zone.
       2. Reasonable conditions may be imposed as necessary to substantially mitigate
          reasonably anticipated detrimental effects of the proposed use. These conditions may
          include conditions concerning use, construction, character, location, landscaping,
          screening, parking, hours of operation, and other matters relating to the purposes and
          objectives of this section. Such conditions shall be expressly set forth in the motion
          authorizing the conditional use permit.
       3. If the reasonably anticipated detrimental effects of a proposed conditional use cannot
          be substantially mitigated by the imposition of reasonable conditions to achieve
          compliance with applicable standards, the conditional use may be denied.
       4. The following factors shall be reviewed and considered in determining whether a
          conditional use permit application should be approved, approved with conditions, or
          denied because reasonable conditions cannot be imposed to achieve compliance with
          applicable standards:
          a. The harmony and compliance of the proposed use with the objectives and
               requirements of the city's general plan and this title;
          b. The suitability of the specific property for the proposed use;
          c. Whether the proposed use or facility may be injurious to potential or existing
               development in the vicinity;
          d. The economic impact of the proposed facility or use on the surrounding area;
          e. The aesthetic impact of the proposed facility or use on the surrounding area;
          f. The safeguards proposed or provided to ensure adequate utilities, transportation
               access, drainage, parking, loading space, lighting, screening, landscaping, open
               space, fire protection, and pedestrian and vehicular circulation;
          g. The safeguards provided or proposed to prevent noxious or offensive emissions
               such as noise, glare, dust, pollutants and odor from the proposed facility or use;
               and
          h. The impact of the proposed facility or use on the health, safety, and welfare of the
               city, the area, and persons owning or leasing property in the area.
       5. The planning commission may request additional information as may be reasonably
          needed to determine whether the requirements of this subsection E can be met.




Newberry Fence                                                       App. No. 2024-0075-USE
Conditional Use Permit Request                  4
REVIEWS

Planning Division Review. The Draper City Planning Division has completed their review of the
Conditional Use Permit submission. Comments from this division, if any, can be found in
Exhibit A.

Engineering and Public Works Divisions Review. The Draper City Engineering and Public Works
Divisions have completed their reviews of the Conditional Use Permit submission.
Comments from these divisions, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Building Division Review. The Draper City Building Division has completed their review of the
Conditional Use Permit submission. Comments from this division, if any, can be found in
Exhibit A.

Fire Division Review. The Draper City Fire Marshal has completed his review of the Conditional
Use Permit submission. Comments from this division, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Noticing. Notice has been properly issued in the manner outlined in the City and State Codes.



STAFF RECOMMENDATION

Staff recommends that the Planning Commission review the request, receive public
comment, and approve the Conditional Use Permit based on the findings for approval as
listed below and the criteria for approval as listed within this staff report.

If the Planning Commission decides to approve the request, staff recommends they include
the following conditions of approval:

    1. That all requirements of the Draper City Engineering, Building and Planning Divisions
       are satisfied throughout the development of the fence, including permitting.

    2. Unless there is substantial action under a conditional use permit within one year from
       the date of its issuance, said permit shall expire and shall have no further force or
       effect. A written request may be submitted to the Community Development
       Department prior to expiration of the Conditional Use Permit for an extension of up
       to six (6) months, subject to approval of the Planning Commission, provided
       substantial action is shown toward establishing the conditional use and the
       requirements for extension under Section 9-5-030 of this chapter are met.

    3. That the fence may not encroach on Draper City property. Any fence or retaining walls
       constructed on Draper City property will need to be removed and reconstructed on
       the subject property.



Newberry Fence                                                     App. No. 2024-0075-USE
Conditional Use Permit Request                5
    4. That the applicant install either regulatory or warning signage on the private street
       west of the trail for eastbound vehicular traffic. The signage installed must have the
       approval of the Public Works and Parks departments, as applicable, prior to
       installation.



MODEL MOTIONS AND FINDINGS

Sample Motion for Approval – I move that we approve the Conditional Use Permit, as
requested by Brian Newberry, Application No. 2024-0075-USE, based on the findings below
and subject to the conditions listed in the staff report dated May 10, 2024.

Findings for approval:

    1. Reasonable mitigation measures are placed on the conditional use to alleviate
       anticipated detrimental effects.

Sample Motion for Modified Approval – I move that we approve the Conditional Use Permit,
as requested by Brian Newberry, Application No. 2024-0075-USE, based on the findings
below and subject to the conditions listed in the staff report dated May 10, 2024, including
the following additional findings or conditions:

Findings for approval:

    1. Reasonable mitigation measures are placed on the conditional use to alleviate
       anticipated detrimental effects.
    2. List any additional findings…

Additional Conditions:

    1. List any additional conditions…

Sample Motion for Denial – I move that we deny the Conditional Use Permit, as requested
by Brian Newberry, Application No. 2024-0075-USE, based on the following findings:

Findings for denial:

    1. Reasonable mitigation measures are not able to be placed on the conditional use to
       sufficiently alleviate anticipated detrimental effects.




Newberry Fence                                                     App. No. 2024-0075-USE
Conditional Use Permit Request                6
                                        EXHIBIT A
                                   DEPARTMENT REVIEWS

REVIEWS ARE NOT MEANT TO BE AN ALL INCLUSIVE LIST OF POSSIBLE COMMENTS OR
CONDITIONS.



Planning Division Review.

       1.      Staff notes that the proposed fence is in the process of being constructed on
               the property prior to receiving the required conditional use permit and
               building permit. Any portion of the fence or retaining walls constructed on
               Draper City property will need to be removed and reconstructed on the
               owner’s property.
       2.      During a site visit, staff noted a concern about the intersection of the private
               road where it crosses the canal and public trail east of the proposed 8’ tall
               fence. The proposed fence height creates a potential negative impact to the
               safety of those on the trail as it restricts the visibility of the trail that existed
               previously and there is no traffic control or other warning signage on the road
               that would alert drivers of the trail crossing or require that they stop before
               crossing or yield to pedestrian traffic.
       3.      Staff also noted that a new storage container has been placed on the southern
               parcel. This is in violation of the City’s regulations for accessory structures. This
               Code violation will be addressed through a separate process.

Engineering and Public Works Divisions Review.

       1.      No additional comments provided.

Building Division Review.

       1.      No additional comments provided.

Fire Division Review.

       1.      No additional comments provided.
  EXHIBIT B
VICINITY MAP
 EXHIBIT C
AERIAL MAP
  EXHIBIT D
LAND USE MAP
 EXHIBIT E
ZONING MAP
EXHIBIT F
SITE PLAN
      Proposed 8' Fence
                                                                          17' Above
     Future Pool
                                                                          Grade of
                                                                          House - 225'
C    Chickens
                                                                          from fenceline
                                                                                           Moose Hollow/
D    Dog Run
                                                                                           Somerset - 32'
    Draper Canal Trail
                                      About 400'                                           above grade of
                                      Long                                                 house.
    Private Road - Costanza                                                                430' from
                                                                                           fenceline

                                         C
                              North
                                          D


                                                   6' Above Grade
                                                   of House - About   55' Above Grade
                                                   25' Wide
                                                                      of house
      EXHIBIT G
APPLICANT’S SUBMITTAL
                                  Newberry Fence Project

Summary of project

The proposed use of this project will be to provide a fence tall enough to provide privacy
and security for the homeowners of 12775 S Costanza Way, Draper UT 84020 while not
negatively impacting surrounding properties. The homeowners seek a variance to the 6’
height limitation and request the ability to build an 8’ fence.

Scope of Project/Fence Design

The design of the fence is an approximately 400’ “Crosswinds” wood fence design
measuring 8’ tall stained dark to match the design of the home. It will span the east
property line.

Bordering Properties

The residence located at 12775 S Costanza Way, Draper UT 84020 is a new construction
home located on a private drive and directly borders residential neighbors on the north
side only (parcel 28331290090000).

The residence is separated on the east side by an approximately 25’ parcel owned by the
city (28331290310000). This land houses certain easements and the Draper Canal Trail
extending from Richins Road to the North to Deer Hollow Park to the south.

The property is directly bordered on the south side by unused city property (Parcel
28331780010000). There is no visible use of this property as it sits vacant. Certain
easements may exist and are unimpeded by the scope of this project.

The property is bordered on the west side by property owned by Utah Transit Authority and
currently houses abandoned railway tracks (Parcel 28335030010000). This is the front of
the house and is unaffected by this project.

The property and surrounding area slope down from east to west. The intersection of
Somerset Ridge Drive and Moose Hollow Drive (about 430’ east of the fence line) sits about
32’ above the grade level of the house. The cul de sac at April Ann Ct. (about 225’ east of
the fence line) sits about 17’ above the grade of the house. The Draper Canal Trail (directly
bordering the fence line on the east) sits about 6’ higher than the grade of the house.

Given the elevated stance of the Draper Canal Trail relative to the grade of the home (6’
higher), it is necessary to build a taller fence to ensure privacy and safety for users of the
trail and occupants of the home. The home houses a family and animals that might
otherwise be subject to uninterrupted viewing and trespass from users of the trail system.
Furthermore, safety concerns abound as loose animals are often off leash easily make
their way onto the property. Owners of the property are also planning to build a pool in
2025 further exacerbating safety concerns that users of the trail system might easily enter
the property subjecting themselves to risk of drowning and subjecting the homeowners to
increased liability.

Having lived in the home since November of 2023 we have not observed any regular
monitoring of the trail by Draper City Police or Animal Services. An 8’ fence would aid
greatly in deterring entry onto the property. It would also help provide needed privacy (not
available with a shorter fence) from passerby’s as to the comings and goings of the home
occupants.

Affected Shareholders of Requested Variance

The only neighbors directly adjoining the Costanza property are on the north side. Their
views are not impeded by this fence. They have been consulted and agree with the current
plans presented by the homeowners.

Draper City borders the property on the east and south sides of the property. They
continue to have access to all easements in existence on the property.

UTA borders the property the West side and is unaffected by this proposed project.

Neighbors bordering Draper City Property to the east of the Canal trail are also unaffected
by this project. Due to the slope of the terrain in this area, houses on April Ann Ct. and
above sit well above the line of sight of this fence. The top of these homes sit roughly 18
feet above the top of the proposed fence.

Users of the Draper Canal Trail might be affected by this proposed fence line. Their views
from the trail into the property on Costanza are obstructed (by design) to ensure the
privacy and safety of themselves and their animals as well as the safety and privacy of the
homeowners and their animals.

Why did you start already?

We ﬁnished our home and moved in November of 2023. Anticipating the need to erect a
fence on the east side, we submitted an application to Draper City in October of 2023. At
this point we had engaged CFC fencing to construct the fence and received pricing for a
“winter” install.

I received a call from Draper City in late November stating they could see that an
application had been submitted but that they couldn’t access it through the system and
requested that we resubmit. With the move and holidays upon us, we waited a couple of
months before resubmitting. We resubmitted in February of 2024. The application resided
with Draper City until we contacted them in March to check on the status. Again we were
asked to resubmit. We did so on March 12th and paid fees on March 29th.

At this point CFC was pressing to move forward or was threatening to recast our pricing
which would cost us roughly $3,000. We made a decision to move forward while
continuing to work with Draper City on the conditional use permit not anticipating any
issues. We have currently halted work on the project until the conditional use permit is
approved.
                        Parcel 28331290090000
                        BNSN Investments LLC




                           Subject Property

                                                28331290310000
                                                Draper City
Parcel 28335030010000
UTA




                               Parcel 28331780010000
                               Draper City
View From Top of Fence

Total Drop from Top of Fence to Grade of house is roughly 12'
View from top of fence facing North
View from top of fence facing south
Facing south including Draper Canyon Trail and properties behind
Facing East from fencline
Facing northeast from fenceline
North From Fencline
View from Draper Canyon Trail north
View north from 3' high
View south from 3'
View from cul de sac on the east of the property

Ground of Cul De Sac sits 17' above grade of the home




             Fence top
                                            Somerset Ridge/Moose
                                            Hollow Dr
                                            430' from Fenceline
                                            32' Rise from House


April Ann Ct
225' from fenceline
17' above grade of house




                           Draper Canal Trail
                           6' Above Grade of House
View from intersection of trail from cul de sac and Draper Canal Trail.

Top of house and windows still visible from this spot
                                                 CANYON WINDS FENCE w/ QUARTER
                                                                       MID RAIL RAIL
                          Bottom
                          of Bevel
     Top of Rail
                        7⅝”                                  2x6
                          Bottom
                          of Rail                                                     45 degree

8’    91½”                              2x6   8’           24¼”
                                                           45¾”                                     1 1/8”

7’    79½”                                    7’           21¼”
                                                           39¾”
6’    67½”                                    6’           18¼”
                                                           33¾”




                                                                                                                              1x6
                                        2x6




                                                                                                                     1x6
5’    55½”                                    5’           15¼”
                                                           27¾”
4’    43½”                                    4’           12¼”
                                                           21¾”
3’    31½”                                    3’            9¼”
                                                           15¾”
                                              rails toe-nailed

                    Top of Rail
                                                          2x6



                                                                                                                                                    3”
                                                                                                                                                   max




                                                                                                             2 x 6 top cap


                                                                                      Max. Post Center 101 1/4”                      Post Height
                                                             2 x 6 top cap


                                                                                      1x6



                                                                                                                                    8’   100½”
                                                                                      1x6                                           7’   88½”
                   8’             97”
                                                                                                                                    6’   76½”
                   7’             85”
                                                                                                                                    5’   64½”
                   6’             73”                                                 1x6
                                                                                                                                    4’   52½”
                   5’             61”                                                                                               3’   40½”
                   4’             49”
                   3’             37”



                                                                                     1x6
                                                                                                  1/4” under fence
            7’-8’            36”
                                                                 2x & 1x rails & cap attached w/
            4’-6’            30”                                 3” galv. ring shank nails
             3’              24”                                 1x6 slats attached w 2” galv.
                                                                 ring shank nails


                                                                                                                             12”
                                                                                                            CFC Fences & Decks
                                                                                          2250 W Center St BLDG 2, Springville, UT 84663
                                                                                          Utah County: (801) 374-6428 Salt Lake County: (801) 990-6888
                                                                                                         Summit County: (801) 990-6888
                                                                                                                      www.FenceAndDeckUtah.com
                                                                                                           Fence Project Installation Estimate/Contract
Name: Newberry, Brian                                           Email:                                                        bnewbs@gmail.com                                        Date:                   29-Nov-23
Job Address 12775 Costanza Way                                    City:                                       Draper             Zip:          84020                                  Salesman:                   Larson
Phone #'s                     801-899-5364                          (W)                                                                                                               Referral Source:
Billing Address:            12775 Costanza Way                    City:                                  Draper         ST: UT Zip:                            84020
                           Diagram (not to scale: reference only)                                                                                                                  Project Details

                                                                                                                                                                      Access                         Bobcat        Hand       X Both

                                                                                                                                                                      Misc.                            Wall                 Flat Mount

                                                                                                                                                                      Misc.                          Box Posts             Extra Footers


                                                                                                                                                                 Core Cuts                             Yes            X        No
                                                                                                                                                     Future Return / Multiple
                                                                                                                                                              Trips                                    Yes            X        No

                                                                                                                                                        Removal & Disposal                             Yes            X        No

                                                                                                                                                          Yard Landscaping              Lanscaped


                                                                                                                                                             Total Footage                                    1180'
                 Diagram is not to scale and is for reference only.                                                                                                                                  [ ] Addendum attached
                                                                                                                                                    O= Overlapped
                                                                                             Top&Btm
               Fence Style                       Ht           Post               Cap         Rail/Trim
                                                                                                                Mid Rail/Trim        Top Cap        E= Edge to Edge       Sections             Price                       Total
                                                                                                                                                      Slat / Picket
Canyon Winds Fence w/ midrail,midtrim & topcap   8'            6x6             Bevel       2x6       1x6       2x6        1x6          2x6         1x6 Overlap                  62       $            769.00 $               47,678.00
Custom Rail Fence 2x6 -- 3 rail                  4'            6x6             Bevel       2x6        --       2x6         --           --             -- --                   103       $            328.00 $               33,784.00



               Gate Style                                                         Ht             Post                 Cap             Hinge            Latch              Quantity             Price                       Total
12'W DoubleCanyon Winds Gate                                                      6'             6x6                 Bevel         T-Hinge          Post Latch                 1         $       1,700.00 $                   1,700.00
3½' W. Single Canyon Winds Gate                                                   8'             6x6                 Bevel         T-Hinge          Post Latch                 1         $       1,100.00 $                   1,100.00
12'W DoubleCustom Rail Gate --                                                    4'             6x6                 Bevel         T-Hinge          Post Latch                 2         $       1,100.00 $                   2,200.00


      Notes:                                               Other Options                                                 Details                                               Qty             Price                     Total
Home Owner will clear fence line of all                    Winter Discount                                                                                                      1              -5000                  -$5,000.00
trees and shrubs
CFC will need to revisit property to confirm
section counts and any other
changes after lanscaping is finished




                                                                              50% Down Payment-50% Due Upon Final Invoice
       Balance of payment is due upon final invoice. Payments not made within 14 days of final invoice will incur a 2% monthly (24% per annum) finance charge. Additional Terms & Conditions on reverse side of Contract.

Scope of Work: Scope of Work to be performed is defined and only includes what is written above and is limited to, unless otherwise specified in writing, the construction of fence, deck, pergola, awning, railings, to current building
  codes/standards for area of installation. Scope of Work does not include unless otherwise specified in writing, Staining, wrapping of support posts or beams, concrete landings, clearing installation area (e.g. growth, materials,
 sheds, etc.), removal of old fence/deck, concrete cutting, or dirt removal. The foregoing, and any other desired services and/or materials that are not noted above will require a CFC Fences & Decks-provided Change Order (See
   Change Order under Contract Terms & Conditions). The Buyer is responsible for all dirt removal after construction is complete. If the Buyer would like CFC Fences & Decks to remove the dirt, that must be requested before
                                                  construction begins and will require a Change Order. CFC Fences & Decks will not be responsible for any damaged sprinklers or utilities.
 Due to the current volatility of material pricing, if material costs have increased more than 5% within one month of estimated installation date, total Project Cost may be subject to a Change Order increase. If Buyer does not agree
                  to the Change Order price the contract can be cancelled at that time at the Buyer’s request. Deposit will be returned through the same payment method previously used. Merchant fees may apply.
                                                                                                      Acceptance of Proposal/Estimate
By signing this document, Buyer acknowledges that (s)he has read and understands the terms and conditions set forth on this document and accompanying contract terms and conditions. The prices, specifications and conditions
   are satisfactory and are hereby accepted as an estimated Project Cost, with the understanding that material prices, and/or other conditions may impact final billed price (see above). Buyer acknowledges payment terms and
       agrees payment will be made as outlined. Buyer acknowledges additions to footage or section count based on final field measurements will be billed at current rate. Deletions of footage or sections based on final field
                                                                                measurements or changes by Buyer will NOT result in an adjustment on final bill.



Signature:                                                                          Date:                                                                        Total inc/ Tax:                                          $81,462.00
Warranty Information
Workmanship: CFC Fences & Decks is pleased to offer our customers a two-year workmanship warranty covering the construction and installation of their fence, deck, or pergola.
This workmanship warranty does not cover normal wear and tear, weathering, settling, or acts of God. Moving parts, such as gates, are warranted only for construction and
installation, not their operation; periodic maintenance of moving parts may be required by the customer. If a CFC Fences & Decks constructed structure is built on any existing
structure or posts, CFC Fences & Decks does not offer any workmanship warranty.
Materials: CFC Fences & Decks does not offer any warranty on materials. All material warranties are as specified by the manufacturer of such material. Please see applicable
manufacturer's website for details.
Wood: CFC Fences & Decks uses quality materials inspected and certified for the use in our installations. Because of the natural properties of wood, materials are not warranted.
Some of the characteristics of wood are:
Checking: This is a crack that can occur in the boards or posts. Checking is natural and is not a defect.
Shrinking: All wood can be expected to shrink.
Warping: This is a natural aspect of wood. It is impossible to predict which piece of lumber may warp. Warpage is not a defect and is not covered under any warranty.
Gates and Moving Parts: Moving parts, such as gates, are warranted only for construction and installation, not their operation; periodic maintenance of moving parts may be required
by the customer. Leaving gates open for any period of time and/or letting the wind forcibly close/open gates will lead to gate and/or post failure. CFC Fences & Decks uses every
precaution to prevent sagging of gates during the installation process, however all gates natural tendency is to sag due to the weight of the gate itself. After installation gates are not
warranted.
Applicable to all products: Weathering is a natural process, and its effects will be seen over time. Variations in product colors before and after weathering are not a defect.
Contract Terms & Conditions- Please Read Carefully
By signing this Contract buyer expressly agrees to CFC Fences & Decks' standard Terms and Conditions set forth below and in the Customer Pre-Project Review and Preparation
Checklist, which is incorporated into this Contract. Signing this Contract authorizes CFC Fences & Decks to order materials and initiate work in accordance with this Contract. (A
facsimile is equivalent to the original.)
Scheduling: Any representation by CFC Fences & Decks regarding the installation date is for the Buyer's convenience and is an approximation only. The installation date may be
subject to change on a daily basis due to circumstances beyond CFC Fences & Decks control, such as weather, permits, progress on prior scheduled jobs, etc. If Buyer delays installation
for any reason without prior approval from CFC Fences & Decks, Buyer will be subject to storage fees and/or price change to current rates at time of installation.
Cancellation: Once signed, this proposal becomes a binding contract between the parties and can only be canceled by the Buyer paying a 10% of total Project Cost cancelation charge
to CFC Fences & Decks. Additionally, if material has been ordered prior to cancelation, Buyer will be responsible for any costs incurred in connection with the material order, including
but not limited to restocking fees, full cost of material if restocking is not possible, delivery charges, etc. The Buyer agrees to pay for all work completed to the point of cancellation
including full material cost and current labor rate per crew member per hour for hours worked including preparation and drive time. CFC Fences & Decks reserves the right to refuse
service to any person for any reason. CFC Fences & Decks reserves the right to cancel this or any contract for any reason at any time.If any part of this contract is changed after CFC
Fences & Decks begins its work under the contract, refer to Change Order section of Contract.
The only exception to above is as noted: Due to the current volatility of material pricing, if material costs have increased more than 5% within one month of estimated installation
date, total Project Cost may be subject to a Change Order increase. If Buyer does not agree to the Change Order price the contract can be cancelled at that time at the Buyer’s request.
Deposit will be returned through the same payment method previously used. Merchant fees may apply.
Change Order: All changes in the Scope of Work shall be made only by agreement confirmed in writing and signed by both the Buyer and an authorized representative of CFC Fences &
Decks at the time of the request for a change. Subcontractors, laborers, or unauthorized salespersons representing CFC Fences & Decks do not have authority to authorize changes to
the Scope of Work. Buyer acknowledges that changes, including work stoppage, may alter the estimated Project Cost significantly. Change Order additions, if possible, shall be billed at
current rate. Change Order additions within 30 days of installation may not be possible and may incur a return trip fee and/or new contract. Change Order deletions may only be
accepted up to 30 days before estimated installation date, if within 30 days of estimated installation, deletions may not be possible due to purchased materials. If any part of this
contract is changed after CFC Fences & Decks begins work under this contract, Buyer shall be charged the current labor rate per crew member per hour for each additional hour
incurred by CFC Fences & Decks as a result of buyer’s change, plus any applicable material costs. Remobilization costs may also be applied if CFC Fences & Decks crews are required to
return for additional work beyond the originally scheduled time. Buyer acknowledges additions to footage or section count based on final field measurements will be billed at current
rate. Deletions of footage or sections based on final field measurements or changes by Buyer will NOT result in an adjustment on final bill.

Payment: Buyer promises to pay in full any balance due upon final invoice from CFC Fences & Decks. For purposes of this contract, final invoice will be sent at the stage in the progress
of the work when the work or designated portion thereof is sufficiently complete in accordance with the contract so that the Buyer can occupy or use the work or a portion thereof for
its intended use. Upon receiving final invoice, all work shall be inspected by the buyer, and if any irregularities or errors exist, they must be reported to CFC Fences & Decks in writing
within 3 days, Buyer “waives” any claims if not reported by this deadline. If irregularities or errors exist and are timely reported, the buyer may retain the amount equal to the cost of
the item, not to exceed 5% of the contract value until these issues are resolved. The Buyer is obligated to make every reasonable effort in an expeditious manner to ensure CFC Fences
& Decks is able to complete any agreed upon obligations. Final retainage payment is due immediately upon their completion. All balances that remain due more than 14 days after
CFC Fences & Decks final invoice are subject to a 2% monthly finance charge (24% per annum). If payment is not made within 14 days after CFC Fences & Decks final invoice, CFC
Fences & Decks may take, at its sole discretion, any and/or all remedies available to it under law or equity to collect payment. Should Buyer default in any of the covenants or
agreements contained herein, Buyer agrees to pay all costs and expenses, including a reasonable attorney’s fee, which may arise or accrue from enforcing this Contract or in pursuing
any remedy provided at law or equity, whether such remedy is pursued by filing a suit or otherwise. This contract shall be governed by Utah law, and any disputes over such shall be
resolved in Utah County, Utah. A $25 service fee shall be charged on all returned checks. All material shall remain the property of CFC Fences & Decks until all amounts due from the
Buyer are fully paid.
Protection Against Liens and Civil Action: Notice is hereby provided in accordance with Section 38-11-108 of the Utah Code that under Utah law an “owner” may be protected against
liens being maintained against an “owner-occupied residence” and from other civil action being maintained to recover monies owed for “qualified services” performed or provided by
suppliers and subcontractors as a part of this contract, if and only if the following conditions are satisfied:
1) the owner entered into a written contract with an original contractor, a factory built housing retailer, or a real estate developer;
2) the original contractor was properly licensed or exempt from licensure under Title 58, Chapter 55, Utah Constructions Trade Licensing Act at the time the contract was executed;
and
3) the owner paid in full the original contractor, factory built housing retailer, or real estate developer or their successors or assigns in accordance with the written contract and any
written or oral amendments to the contract.
4) An owner who has satisfied all of these conditions may perfect his protection from liens by applying for a Certificate of Compliance with the Division of Occupational and
Professional Licensing by calling (801) 530-6628 or toll free in Utah only (866) 275-3675 and requesting to speak to the Lien Recovery Fund. (Utah Administrative Code R156-38a-108)
Advertising: CFC Fences & Decks is authorized to use photographs taken or contracted by us of our work in any advertising, marketing, or other business practices. CFC Fences & Decks
shall have no obligation or liability related to the use of the photographs to the owner of the finished product. CFC Fences & Decks is authorized to attach signs with company name
and contact information to finished installations, as well as place a yard sign during installation and for a reasonable time thereafter.
Underground Facilities: Buyer is solely responsible for locating, staking, and clearing project area. CFC Fences & Decks shall notify the appropriate Blue Stakes Network to locate
underground facilities. Buyer is solely responsible for accurately locating, marking, and repairing, if damaged, any underground facilities not located and marked by Blue Stakes (such
as sprinklers or locally installed wiring). This applies to both the buyer's and adjacent properties. If buyer elects to place any and/or all of the materials in an area encompassing a
utility easement, buyer agrees to pay all costs incurred by CFC Fences & Decks, including, but not limited to, removing, relocating, and/or repairing the underground facility. CFC
Fences & Decks will not be liable for damage to unmarked or incorrectly marked, by Blue Stakes or otherwise, underground wires or pipes within the work area. Disputes with Utility
Companies for a Utility Strike will be conducted by CFC Fences & Decks and if CFC Fences & Decks is not at fault for any reason, Buyer will be responsible for any applicable bills from
Utilities Companies.
Unforeseen Conditions: All quotations are based on existence of normal soil conditions and a cleared fence line. CFC Fences & Decks reserves the right to charge to the Buyer any
costs of unforeseen conditions. Labor required for unforeseen conditions including but not limited to buried concrete, roots, large rocks, unusually difficult digging, or hand digging
required due to the close proximity of underground facilities near area of excavation, will be charged for at the current labor rate or a previously determined amount.
Underground Facilities: Buyer is solely responsible for locating, staking, and clearing project area. CFC Fences & Decks shall notify the appropriate Blue Stakes Network to locate
underground facilities. Buyer is solely responsible for accurately locating, marking, and repairing, if damaged, any underground facilities not located and marked by Blue Stakes (such
as sprinklers or locally installed wiring). This applies to both the buyer's and adjacent properties. If buyer elects to place any and/or all of the materials in an area encompassing a
utility easement, buyer agrees to pay all costs incurred by CFC Fences & Decks, including, but not limited to, removing, relocating, and/or repairing the underground facility. CFC
Fences & Decks will not be liable for damage to unmarked or incorrectly marked, by Blue Stakes or otherwise, underground wires or pipes within the work area. Disputes with Utility
Companies for a Utility Strike will be conducted by CFC Fences & Decks and if CFC Fences & Decks is not at fault for any reason, Buyer will be responsible for any applicable bills from
Utilities Companies.
Unforeseen Conditions: All quotations are based on existence of normal soil conditions and a cleared fence line. CFC Fences & Decks reserves the right to charge to the Buyer any
costs of unforeseen conditions. Labor required for unforeseen conditions including but not limited to buried concrete, roots, large rocks, unusually difficult digging, or hand digging
required due to the close proximity of underground facilities near area of excavation, will be charged for at the current labor rate or a previously determined amount.

Other Conditions: Buyer is solely responsible for locating and staking property points and fence lines. Buyer agrees to defend and hold harmless and indemnify CFC Fences & Decks
from and against all claims, liabilities, and expenses arising directly or indirectly from misplaced fencing due to inaccurate property pin locations, surveys, or lack of accurate location
information. Buyer agrees to indemnify, defend, and hold CFC Fences & Decks harmless from all liabilities, demands, claims, damages, suits, and judgments, including reasonable
attorney's fees and other verified reasonable costs and expenses incurred thereto, because of injury or death to persons or injury, loss or destruction of property caused by the acts or
negligence of Buyer, its directors, officers, agents, representatives, or employees, or otherwise arising out of the project. Buyer shall grant free access to work areas on the property or
adjacent property where the work is to be performed. CFC Fences & Decks shall not be responsible for incidental damage to Buyer’s property including but not limited to driveways,
walks, lawns, exterior walls, and/or landscaping by performance of installation work under this contract, including movement of workers, materials, and equipment. Buyer shall insure
that sprinklers are turned off for three days prior to and during work. Buyer is solely responsible for damaged sprinkler and/or irrigation lines. CFC Fences & Decks shall not be
responsible for removal of any dirt, including but not limited to dirt from excavation of holes, unless otherwise specified. Buyer is responsible for obtaining any permits that may be
required and/or compliance to any restrictive covenants that may exist. Engineering and related building fees are also the responsibility of the Buyer.
In recognition of the relative risks and benefits of the Services to both CFC Fences & Decks and Buyer, the risks have been allocated such that Buyer agrees, to the fullest extent
permitted by law, that the limit of the liability of CFC Fences & Decks and CFC Fences & Decks officers, directors, partners, employees, members, owners and subcontractors for any
and all claims, losses, costs, damages of any nature whatsoever whether arising from breach of contract, negligence, or other common law or statutory theory of recovery, or claims
expenses from any cause or causes, including attorney’s fees and costs and expert witness fees and costs, shall not exceed the amount of the Project Cost. It is intended that this
limitation apply to any and all liability or cause of action however alleged or arising, unless otherwise prohibited by law, including but not limited to negligence, breach of contract, or
any other claim whether in tort, contract or equity.
Entire Contract; Modification: This Contract supersedes all prior Contracts, whether written or oral, between the parties with respect to its subject matter and constitutes a complete
and exclusive statement of the terms of the Contract between the parties with respect to its subject matter. This Contract may not be amended, supplemented, or otherwise modified
except by a written Contract executed by the party to be charged with the amendment.
Plural/Singular: As used in this Contract the term Buyer shall include all Buyers; the masculine shall include the feminine and the feminine the masculine when the context so requires.
Severability: In the event that any provision of this Contract, or any action contemplated pursuant to this Contract, is found by a court of competent jurisdiction to be inconsistent with
or contrary to any law, ordinance or regulation, the latter shall be deemed to control this Contract and shall be regarded as modified accordingly; and such modified provision, as well
as the remainder of this Contract, shall continue in full force and effect.
Waiver; Remedies Cumulative: The rights and remedies of the parties to this Contract are cumulative and not alternative. Neither any failure nor any delay by any party in exercising
any right, power, or privilege under this Contract or any of the documents referred to in this Contract will operate as a waiver of such right, power, or privilege, and no single or partial
exercise of any such right, power, or privilege will preclude any other or further exercise of such right, power, or privilege or the exercise of any other right, power, or privilege. To the
maximum extent permitted by law, (a) no claim or right arising out of this Contract or any of the documents referred to in this Contract can be discharged by one party, in whole or in
part, by a waiver or renunciation of the claim or right unless in writing signed by the other party; (b) no waiver that may be given by a party will be applicable except in the specific
instance for which it is given; and (c) no notice to, or demand on, one party will be deemed to be a waiver of any obligation of that party or of the right of the party giving such notice
or demand to take further action without notice or demand as provided in this Contract or the documents referred to in this Contract.
Section Headings: The section headings of this Contract are inserted only for convenience and in no way define, limit or describe the scope or intent of this Contract nor affect its terms
and provisions.
Construction: This Contract shall be fairly interpreted in accordance with its terms and without any strict construction in favor of or against any party. Any ambiguity will not be
interpreted against the drafting party.
Warranty of Authority: If Buyer is an entity, then each individual executing this Contract on behalf of Buyer hereby represents and warrants that he or she has been duly authorized to
execute and deliver this Contract in the capacity of the person or entity set forth for which he or she signs and that the entity so indicated exists and is in good standing under the laws
of the State of Utah. In addition to any other remedies in law and equity available to the non-breaching party, any party breaching this warranty hereby accepts personal responsibility
and liability for the covenants and conditions contained in this Contract and agrees to be bound by the same.
Successors, Assigns; No Third-Party Rights: No party may assign any of its rights or delegate any of its obligations under this Contract without the prior written consent of the other
party. Subject to the preceding sentence, this Contract will apply to, be binding in all respects upon, and inure to the benefit of the successors and permitted assigns of the parties.
Nothing expressed or referred to in this Contract will be construed to give any person other than the parties to this Contract any legal or equitable right, remedy, or claim under, or
with respect to, this Contract or any provision of this Contract, except such rights as shall inure to a successor or permitted assignee pursuant hereto.
Force Majeure: CFC Fences & Decks shall not be liable for any delay, damage, or default under this Contract occasioned by war, strikes, shortages of labor, material, or transportation,
acts of civil or military authorities, weather or other acts of God, Pandemic, or other causes beyond the reasonable control of CFC Fences & Decks. The Buyer is hereby waiving any
such claim.
Buyer's Initials:_______
Signature: By signing this Contract, Buyer has read and understands and therefore agrees to all terms and conditions in this Contract and Estimate/Proposal. Buyer acknowledges they
will be provided, and will read all, other documentation from CFC Fences & Decks throughout the installation process.
Buyer’s Signature:
______________________________
Buyer’s Printed Name:
______________________________
Date:
_______________
