MEMO
To: Planning Commission
From: Todd Taylor
Date: 2024-01-11
Re: Public Hearing: City Initiated Subdivision Ordinance Update (Legislative Item)


Comments:


This application is a request for approval of a Text Amendment for the purpose of amending
multiple portions of Draper City Municipal Code Titles 9 and 17 to address recent changes to Utah
State Code.




The findings for a positive recommendation are as follows:




  1. The proposed amendment is consistent with goals, objectives and policies of the City's
       General Plan;
  2.   The proposed amendment is appropriate given the context of the request and there is
       sufficient justification for a modification to the development codes;
  3.   The proposed amendment will not create a conflict with any other section or part of the
       development codes or the General Plan;
  4.   The potential effects of the proposed amendment have been evaluated and are determined
       not to be detrimental to public health, safety, or welfare and represents an overall
       community benefit; and
  5.   The proposed text amendment implements best current, professional practices of urban
       planning, design, and engineering practices.



The findings for a negative recommendation are as follows:




  1. The proposed amendment is not consistent with goals, objectives and policies of the City's
     General Plan;
  2. The proposed amendment is not appropriate given the context of the request and there is
     not sufficient justification for a modification to the development codes;
  3. The proposed amendment could create a conflict with another section or part of the
     development codes or the General Plan;
  4. The potential effects of the proposed amendment have been determined to be detrimental
     to public health, safety, or welfare or do not represent an overall community benefit; and
  5. The proposed text amendment is not consistent with best current, professional practices of
     urban planning, design, and engineering practices.



ATTACHMENTS:

2023-4645-TA Staff Report- Finalized.pdf
