MINUTES OF THE DRAPER CITY PLANNING COMMISSION MEETING HELD ON
THURSDAY, APRIL 25, 2024, IN THE DRAPER CITY COUNCIL CHAMBERS

PARTICIPATING: Andrew Adams, Chair
               Lisa Fowler, Vice-Chair
               Commission Member Susan Nixon
               Commission Member Mary Squire
               Alternate Commission Member Laura Fidler
               Alternate Commission Member Christine Green

EXCUSED:              Commission Member Kendra Shirey
                      Alternate Commission Member Shivam Shah
                      Commission Member Gary Ogden

STAFF PRESENT: Jennifer Jastremsky, Community Development Director
               Todd Draper, Planning Manager
               Mike Barker, City Attorney
               Spencer DuShane, Assistant City Attorney
               Brien Maxfield, Senior Engineering Manager
               Amie Salazar, Office Manager
               Todd Taylor, City Planner III

6:30 PM Business Meeting

Chair Andrew Adams called the meeting to order and welcomed those present.

1.     Items for Commission Consideration.

       A.      Action Item: Approve Planning Commission Meeting Minutes for March 14,
               2024. (Administrative Action)

Motion: Commissioner Nixon moved to APPROVE the minutes of March 14, 2024, as
submitted. The motion was seconded by Commissioner Fowler.

Vote: Commissioner Nixon-Yes; Commissioner Fowler-Yes; Commissioner Squire-Yes;
Commissioner Fidler-Yes; Commissioner Green-Yes. The motion passed unanimously.

       B.      Public Hearing: Windsor Mill Townhomes Site Plan Request. (Administrative
               Action)
               On the request of David Jenkins, representing Olsen and Associates, for a Site Plan
               for 30 townhomes for 3.77 acres of land located in the RM2 zone. The property is
               located at 11450 South 820 West. Application 2023-0239-SP. Staff contact: Jennifer
               Jastremsky, (801)576-6328, jennifer.jastremsky@draperutah.gov.

Community Development Director, Jennifer Jastremsky, presented the Staff Report and stated that
the property is located off of 11400 South on the western border of the City. She identified a vacant
piece of property that is accessed from Windsor Mill Drive, which is a public street. The land use is
Residential Medium-High Density, which allows up to 12 units per acre. The zoning is RM-2, which
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
April 25, 2024
Page 2

is Multi-Family Residential, which allows up to 12 units per acre. The applicant is proposing to
construct 30 townhomes on the property with one access, which is the allowed amount of access
points for 30 units. They will either be duplexes or triplexes and will have a looped road system.
There are wetlands on the property that will be preserved and turned into an amenity area with a
viewing area and benches. Each unit has a two-car garage and a driveway that is at least 20 feet deep.
Guest parking areas were identified. The Code requires 2.25 spaces per unit or two spaces for the
residential unit and one guest parking space for every four units. For 30 units, eight guest parking
spaces are required. The request was determined to comply with the Code in terms of parking. The
roadways will be private, and the plans comply with the minimum width standards. Sidewalk is
proposed on both sides of the street. They meet the minimum required by Code.

With respect to landscaping, 38% is proposed within the overall site. That includes the wetlands open
space area. The plan was updated to comply with the updated water-wise landscaping standards that
limit sod or turf to 20% or less of the overall property. Street trees are to be provided from the
Approved Street Tree List. Ms. Jastremsky referenced the site plan and stated that the future Phase 2
will be an office building with the property being zoned for commercial. At this meeting, the
Commission is only looking at Phase 1, which is the townhomes. A series of retaining walls are
proposed due to the slope of the property. There are retaining walls along the road as well. When
commercial is located next to multi-family, a landscape buffer is required next to the residential. A
buffer is not required with residential. Due to the slope of the property, the applicants are installing
a nine-foot retaining wall. Staff reviewed the request and determined that the nine-foot retaining wall
is sufficient to meet the landscape and wall buffer standards for the future commercial. There is a
condition of approval that there be a guardrail at the top of the wall so that a safety hazard is not
created.

With regard to architecture, the Code requires at least 50% brick or stone on all four sides of the
buildings. The applicants comply with that requirement. The proposed buildings will have two
stories with a height of 27 feet with 35 feet being the maximum height. Brick is 52 to 68 percent.
Images and the proposed building colors were presented.

Parking issues were raised with customers of Sport City bleeding over into the neighborhood.
Ms. Jastremsky stated that discussion is separate from the site plan application. Staff has worked
with Sport City in the past on a site plan to install additional parking, which was not built. There has
been previous discussion about the future office building having shared parking. The Code requires
parking to be provided. If there is a change in use, the City can require additional parking if more is
required than was there previously. In this case, Sport City has not changed the use. She gathered
numbers when Sport City was originally approved, and recreation and entertainment parking
standards were based on a Parking Study that was conducted. The site plan was approved with 159
parking stalls. The current Code requires three stalls per 1,000 square feet for the recreation use. The
current specific standard would require 231 stalls, which is more than they have. As a result, the
current use would be considered legal non-conforming.

The comment was made that the residents are concerned about the new neighborhood going in and
additional traffic and potential impacts. The townhomes will have private streets and patrons of Sport
City could be towed if they park there. No parking signs could also be posted. The proposed
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
April 25, 2024
Page 3

townhome development, however, meets the City’s parking standards.                 With regard to the
neighborhood, there is a Traffic Committee that is aware of the issues.

In response to a question raised, Ms. Jastremsky stated that the applicants came in twice before for
the townhomes and the office building. Both times the site plan expired without the applicant starting
construction. They are now proposing a phased project for the townhomes and will do the office
later. The changes made since the last iteration of the project were to the phasing and landscaping
due to a change in the Landscape Code.

A question was raised about the light pole that is proposed to be six feet taller than required by Code.
Ms. Jastremsky explained that the Lighting Plan complies with Code, but the light poles are slightly
taller than allowed. A condition was added that they reduce the height. Because this is a phased
project, Commissioner Nixon asked if there are any assurances that the office will be built or
implications if it is not. Ms. Jastremsky explained that they are two different properties. If the office
is not built, it will not impact the townhomes. There are no assurances in place and the applicant
could change their mind.

A question was raised about the deviation. Ms. Jastremsky explained that the applicants originally
applied for deviation from the architectural standards for the townhomes. They have since withdrawn
that application and modified the elevations. The request is now compliant with Code.

The applicant, David Jenkins from Ensign Engineering, gave his address as 1000 South 45 West in
Sandy. He was representing the property owner and had been involved with the project from the
beginning. It has been a lengthy process and he appreciated working with the staff. They modified
the Landscaping Plan as mentioned to meet the Code. In terms of the condition for the light poles,
they will conform and present a Lighting Plan for the 14-foot pole. They understand that there is a
parking issue with the use to the east, however, this is a standalone and meets all Code requirements
for parking. There will be a Homeowners Association (“HOA”) that will likely address the parking
issue and post the necessary signage.

A question was raised about the end of Millhouse Lane where there are three visitor stalls and why it
was not brought through to Windsor Mill Drive and connected. Mr. Jenkins stated that they worked
through numerous concepts and were not allowed to connect due to code constraints.

Chair Adams opened the public hearing.

Mark Hansen reported that he is a resident of the cul-de-sac directly to the south of the proposed
townhome development on Windsor River Cove. When the project was approved, it was with the
townhomes and the office building going in together with the assurance that all of the extra parking
spaces for the office would alleviate the overflow parking problem from Sport City. That is no longer
the case. He stated that the parking problem is severe, especially on Friday nights and Saturdays
when there are tournaments at Sport City. The neighbors objected to the project because of inadequate
parking for a long time and were told in 2019 by Dennis Workman that Sport City will add 35 parking
spaces. That has not happened. The streets are narrow and there will be no parking on the streets
within the townhome development. Mr. Hansen recognized that the request meets the minimum
standards and that everyone has to support high-density housing. The residents want it done in a way
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
April 25, 2024
Page 4

that will not make the neighborhood worse than it already is. There are ways that could be alleviated
with 30 townhomes, two parking stalls per home, and eight visitor stalls. He stated that when there
are parties there will not be enough parking.

Mr. Hansen reported that he used to visit a similar development in California with a very comparable
configuration where there were two parking spaces per driveway and two stalls per four units. He
had a very difficult time finding visitor parking. His concern was that what is proposed will make a
bad situation worse. He suggested the plan be modified to allow more than eight visitor parking stalls,
eliminate one or two buildings, or do some landscaping. He was concerned that people will park in
the cul-de-sac and in the development due to a lack of parking. Traffic congestion is also problematic.
Mr. Hansen and his wife are administrators of the group’s Facebook page and a number of neighbors
have commented. He provided a copy of the comments to the Commission. He noted that many have
expressed safety concerns. The entrance street between Sport City and the future office space is very
narrow and there have been numerous close calls. There is no HOA in his neighborhood.

Will Morrey gave his address as 11486 Windsor River Cove directly south of the trailhead parking.
His main concern was with the lack of overflow parking. He and his wife own a similar property in
Millcreek and have ongoing parking issues. He asked that there be Covenants, Codes, and
Restrictions (“CC&Rs”) in place that require no parking on the street. He also recommended that no
parking be allowed in those stalls after 10:00 PM. His bedroom is adjacent to the parking stalls and
he is disturbed when there is activity late at night.

Dirk Peterjohn, a Fox Landing resident, stated that in addition to parking problems, it would not be
possible for a fire truck to access the area on a Saturday. He provided photos showing what the
situation looks like. Mr. Peterjohn was also concerned about access to the area and adding 30 homes
and parking for 60 cars. The westbound access must be diverted through Osborne Fox Way so there
will be a significant increase in traffic through the neighborhood. Twice a day, 25 to 30
schoolchildren get off the school bus and walk down the road where motorists frequently speed.
Adding 60 more cars will exacerbate the problem. Those traveling out westbound will have to go up
800 West and Osborne Fox Way onto 700 West. He asked if the City has plans to increase the access
to the development or traffic through the neighborhoods, which would not be acceptable. He
commented that Ivory Homes added a turn into their subdivision and asked if something similar
should be done here.

Kristy Crosland lives in the Fox Landing neighborhood and agreed with the previous comment. She
asked about the Code requirements for the accesses in and out of the neighborhood since they will
force people into the neighborhood. She understood that Sport City was not on the agenda but pointed
out that they are the reason behind the parking and traffic issues. She commended Draper City for
fixing the large potholes.

Kathy Hansen’s understanding was that some time ago Sport City and this development were under
the same ownership. If that is the case, she hoped the issues could be rectified.

Mike Crosland asked if the developer would pay for a gate to stop people from driving up the streets.
That way the patrons of Sport City would be forced to go out to 11400 South. That seemed like a
good tradeoff for the Fox Landing Group.
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
April 25, 2024
Page 5


There were no further public comments. The public hearing was closed.

Chair Adams asked if people from Sport City are currently parking on the dirt lot. Ms. Jastremsky
confirmed that they are. Chair Adams pointed out that the vacant dirt lot is already alleviating parking
and is the same as if they were going to do Phase 2. He felt it would be wise for the developer since
residential is now more commonly requested rather than commercial. He commented that there is no
guarantee that Phase 2 will happen. Parking is still being alleviated and the owner is currently
allowing cars to park on the vacant lot. Ms. Jastremsky confirmed that the properties are all under
the same ownership. Chair Adams stated that as a result, the owners could choose to construct a
parking garage in Phase 2. He acknowledged that traffic is a serious issue. It was noted that the
challenge with parking within the development is that they comply with Code. Chair Adams stated
that they meet the Code so it would be at the discretion of the developer to add more parking.
Eliminating the wetlands was determined to not be an option.

Commissioner Green had experience with parking at Sport City and agreed that it is problematic. She
stated that Sport City guests do not use 11400 South to park but there is a wide shoulder that would
allow for parking. When people do park there, the traffic flow slows down on 11400 South. She
suggested they utilize 11400 South more but recognized that is unlikely since people will then have
to walk quite a greater distance. She stated that they could place a second entrance on the north side
of the building to alleviate the walk for parents dropping their children off.

Commissioner Squire asked if there have historically been issues with the minimum amount of guest
parking. Ms. Jastremsky responded that a few years ago the City changed the Code to require
driveways to be 20 feet deep because the neighborhoods where there were problems were those that
did not have driveways. People were using their garages for storage and the guest parking for resident
parking. The Code now requires driveways. At the time of the second approval, the applicants were
required to make modifications to have the driveways comply with the Code. Theoretically, there are
two parking spots in the garage, two in the driveway, and guest parking.

Chair Adams asked Mr. Jenkins about the overflow parking for the proposed development to be used
with the office space. He asked what would prevent the residents of the townhomes from parking in
the dirt lot. Mr. Jenkins confirmed that the dirt lot is currently being used for overflow parking. They
have not developed the office building because it is currently not economically feasible. In the
meantime, the dirt lot could be used by the residents of the townhomes. Ms. Jastremsky stated that
legally, the dirt lot cannot be used for parking. Motorized vehicles are required to park on a paved
surface. The lot does not even meet the City’s standards for temporary parking.

Mr. Jenkins reported that when construction begins and the retaining wall goes in, the contractor will
grade the area so that it is flatter. If they put gravel down or improve the site further it could become
a parking lot, which is not allowed. He stated that they will grade it and make it look good. The
possibility of a drive lane was mentioned as was done with the Ivory Development. It was done in
conjunction with the Utah Department of Transportation (“UDOT”) which can be challenging to work
with. Mr. Jenkins stated that it would require a Traffic Study and a lot of effort.
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
April 25, 2024
Page 6

Commissioner Fidler was sympathetic to the neighbors’ concerns and felt that Draper City has
ongoing issues. It did not appear that Sport City is doing its duty to deter its patrons from parking on
neighborhood streets. She asked how the matter could be addressed since the properties are under
the same ownership. Mr. Jenkins stated that when Sport City first approached the City, 30 feet of
landscaping was required on the south property line, which was problematic. That was the reasoning
behind the current layout. Due to the poor health of the property owner, little could be done. They
now have a plan to add parking to the landscaped area, but it is costly and not viable. Development
of the Windsor Mill Townhomes may perpetuate them to taking action. They recognize there is an
issue, and they want to take care of it, but it is solely an economic problem.

Commissioner Fowler referenced the standards for approval set forth in the packet. She stated that
the entire site must be developed at one time. It must also conform to the applicable standards set
forth in the Title including, but not limited to, building height, setbacks, access points, parking,
landscaping, and building materials. As long as the applicants change the light poles and add the
safety railing, it fits that standard. Commissioner Fowler reported that the third standard is that the
plans meet the intent, goals, and objectives of the General Plan and the purpose of the Zoning District,
which it does.

Chair Adams commented on the costs involved in providing additional parking. Commissioner
Fowler reviewed the additional standards and stated that ultimately the request complies with the
standards.

Motion: Commissioner Fowler moved to APPROVE the Site Plan as requested by David
Jenkins representing Olsen and Associates for Windsor Mill Townhomes, Application 2023-
0239-SP subject to the following:

Conditions:

       1.      That all requirements of the Draper City Engineering, Public Works, Building,
               Planning, and Fire Divisions are satisfied throughout the development of the site
               and the construction of all buildings on the site, including permitting.

       2.      That all requirements of the geotechnical report are satisfied throughout the
               development of the site and the construction of all buildings and infrastructure
               on the site.

       3.      That as a safety measure, the developer installs a 48” closed-face fence on top of
               the retaining wall that separates the future office building from the townhomes.

       4.      That approval of the site plan does not constitute approval of any signage. Any
               and all signage shall be required to receive separate sign permit approval.

       5.      Adjust the lighting plan to reflect a maximum light pole height of 14 feet, per
               DCMC Section 9-32-030(D)(7) standards.
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
April 25, 2024
Page 7

       6.      Per DCMC Section 9-5-090(J) the site plan shall become null and void in 1 year
               if a land disturbance permit is not issued. A one-item 6-month extension to this
               expiration date can be requested prior to expiration of the site plan.

Findings:

       1.      The entire site shall be developed at one time unless a phased development plan
               is approved. This project includes Phase 2 for an office building.

       2.      A site plan shall conform to applicable standards set forth in this title, including
               but not limited to, building heights, setbacks, access points, parking, landscaping,
               and building materials.

       3.      The proposed development plans meet the intent, goals, and objectives of the
               General Plan and the purpose of the zone district in which the site is located.

       4.      The public facilities and services in the area are adequate to support the subject
               development, as required by engineering standards and specifications.

       5.      The proposed development plans comply with the engineering standards found
               in Titles 7, 8, 11, 12, 16, and 18 of this code, including traffic, stormwater
               drainage, and utilities concerns.

Second: Commissioner Nixon

Vote: A roll call was taken with the Commissioners voting 5-to-0 in favor of the
motion. Commissioners Nixon, Squire, Fidler, Green, and Fowler voted “Yes.” The motion
passed unanimously.

After the vote, Commissioner Squire expressed her dismay at how poor of a neighbor Sport City has
continued to be. The neighbors have complained on numerous occasions and she felt a great deal of
empathy for them. She stated that the Commission cannot consider what is taking place with Sport
City in this application.

Chair Adams asked what would have to happen to allow Sport City to have more parking put in. Ms.
Jastremsky stated that a site plan was previously approved to locate parking where the landscaping is
to the east, but it had since expired. She offered to determine whether the City has changed the
conditions to allow that. She did not think it would be difficult to get it reapproved. It was noted that
the applicants may not require as much deviation as they would have previously. Ms. Jastremsky
reported that the City’s landscaping code is fully waterwise. When Sport City originally came in they
were required to provide an additional landscaping buffer beyond what the Code requires. They
received approval to reduce that and to add more parking. Chair Adams recalled at the time that there
was public clamor regarding having a parking lot next to homes. The result was to enlarge the size
of the buffer. The desire was to have the Sport City problem remedied.
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
April 25, 2024
Page 8

       C.      Public Hearing: Ashley Furniture Zoning Text Amendment.
               (Legislative Item)
               On the request of Jeremy Schwebs, Hodgdon Management and Construction,
               representing Ashley Real Estate, LLC, a request for approval of a Zoning Text
               Amendment to the CSD-SWF (Southwestern Furniture Commercial Special District)
               zone to modify the allowed primary materials, for approximately 3.36 acres located at
               13177 S. Lone Peak Parkway. Known as Application 2024-0050-TA. Staff contact:
               Todd Taylor (801)576-6510, todd.taylor@draperutah.gov.

City Planner III, Todd Taylor presented the Staff Report and displayed the Vicinity Map of the site
located west of I-15 and north of Bangerter Highway. An aerial view of the site was presented
showing that the Southwestern Furniture Commercial Special District is only covering the Ashley
Furniture building and site. The land use designation is Commercial Special District. A photo of the
site was displayed along with a rendering provided by the applicant who is requesting to amend the
text of the Commercial Special District. The primary change is that the primary materials also include
stucco, Exterior Insulation Finishing Systems (“EIFS”), and exposed concrete in addition to the
primary materials found in Code Section 9-22-040F.

Commissioner Nixon asked about the renderings presented. Mr. Taylor explained that the renderings
were provided by the applicant and have not yet been reviewed. They will be reviewed at the time of
Building Permit issuance.

Mr. Taylor explained that currently, the primary materials include brick, stone, ceramic tile, wood or
concrete fiber composite siding, concrete masonry units, metal composite material, and architectural
precast concrete. It was noted that the applicant is proposing exposed concrete and not a precast
concrete material. Mr. Taylor explained that all of the proposed materials come from the current
secondary materials list, which includes stucco, EIFS, and exposed concrete.

A question was raised as to whether stucco is included as a primary material in any other part of the
Code outside of this particular zone. Ms. Jastremsky stated that some of the CSDs likely do include
stucco. The Lone Peak CSD which is a Price Realty development with a lot of manufacturing uses
includes concrete tilt-up, as a primary material in that development. That is more frequently seen
than the higher quality materials. She stated that it would be more consistent with older developments
within the City. She noted that this is the only property within the CSD and will not change the
overall commercial architectural standards.

The applicant, Jeremy Schwebs was asked about the reasoning behind the text amendment and if it is
related to branding. Mr. Schwebs stated that Ashley Corporate is looking to update its brand to a
more stucco, EIFS, exposed concrete look similar to what was shown on the rendering. That look is
what they are getting preliminary pricing for and what they have received from Ashley Design in
terms of what is to be done at the Draper store.

Chair Adams asked about the landscaping. Mr. Schwebs stated that the landscaping will remain the
same. The only thing they are focusing on is the building itself. What they plan to do is demo the
stone because it is becoming a maintenance and liability issue. It will then be replaced with stucco
and EIFS, which is easier to maintain.
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
April 25, 2024
Page 9


Commissioner Fowler asked if there is anything in the Code about color schemes. Mr. Taylor stated
that a minimum of three colors are required per elevation. Ms. Jastremsky indicated that the Code
does not specify what those colors are.

Chair Adams opened the public hearing. There was no public comment. The public hearing was
closed.

Motion: Commissioner Squire moved to forward a POSITIVE recommendation to the City
Council on Application 2024-0044-MA as requested by Jeremy Schwebs representing Ashley
Real Estate, LLC based on the following:

Findings:

       1.     The proposed amendment is consistent with goals, objectives, and policies of the
              City's General Plan.

       2.     The proposed amendment furthers the specific purpose statements of the zoning
              ordinance.

       3.     The proposed amendment is appropriate given the context of the request and
              there is sufficient justification for a modification to the zoning ordinance.

       4.     The proposed amendment will not create a conflict with any other section or part
              of the zoning ordinance or the General Plan.

       5.     The potential effects of the proposed amendment have been evaluated and are
              determined not to be detrimental to public health, safety, or welfare and
              represent an overall community benefit.

       6.     The proposed text amendment implements the best current, professional
              practices of urban planning, design, and engineering practices.

Second: Commissioner Nixon.

Vote: A roll call was taken with the Commissioners voting 5-to-0 in favor of the
motion. Commissioners Nixon, Squire, Fidler, Green, and Fowler voted “Yes.” The motion
passed unanimously.
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
April 25, 2024
Page 10

       D.      Action Item: Raining Hot Coupons, LLC Home Occupation Conditional Use
               Permit (Administrative Action).
               On the request of Sarah Gibbons for a Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit for
               an assembly and repair, limited home-based business. The property is located at
               approximately 1935 East Stag Hill Circle in the RA2 (Residential Agricultural 20,000
               square foot minimum lot size) zone. Application 2023-4587-USE. Staff contact is
               Todd Draper, 801-576-6335, todd.draper@draperutah.gov. This item was continued
               from the February 8th and March 14, 2024, meetings.

Planning Manager, Todd Draper, reported that the applicant was not present but was provided with
the Staff Report and time and date of the meeting. Changes had been made to the request since the
last meeting and additional information was submitted. Staff still recommended denial as they did
previously. When the application was originally submitted, they felt it fit within the definition of the
use but now are concerned about the size of the use potentially not meeting the definition in that it
would not be small-scale in nature, produced in small quantities, and on a made-to-order basis. It was
noted at the previous meetings that the applicants moved the business from an industrial warehouse
into the home. Activities involve the repackaging of bulk and wholesale shipments of clothing and
other fashion articles in addition to online sales. The hours in the most recent updated Statement of
Business Operations changed from 9:00 AM to 6:00 PM rather than 9:00 AM to 7:00 PM. Staff was
aware that they have frequent deliveries and shipments to and from the home. They utilize a Home
Office or living room where they film videos for online sales within the dwelling.

The garage has mainly been used for shipping and receiving operations. The applicants have
indicated that they have two non-resident employees. They have made a number of conflicting
statements throughout the process. The matter was continued from the February 8 and March 14
meetings. Mr. Draper noted that even with the resubmittal the application is not quite complete. The
Fire Marshal inspected the home and passed it off from a fire hazard perspective. The applicants
submitted the floor plan and combined it with the Parking Plan for residential vehicles on the
driveway as well as the two for employees. He noted that they call out a reclaimed garage on the
plans. The applicant’s statements are vague as to whether the garage will be for the required parking
or for other residential uses other than parking. The new layout provided continues to raise questions
regarding its accuracy. A sketch was presented from the County Assessor with dimensions; however,
Mr. Draper noted they are not always accurate.

Mr. Draper reported that based on what can be seen in the aerial photo, staff presented what they feel
is more representative of the actual shape of the home, which was of concern. The applicants
indicated that the garage is 22’ 9” but is shown as 27’ on the Assessor’s sketch, which makes it
difficult to determine whether something was added internally or not. The updated site plan was the
same as was presented previously. The photos that were submitted by the applicant were presented.
Staff knows that the applicants cleaned the area up, but no additional photos were provided with the
most recent submittal. Staff still had concerns. In the photos there appeared to be business items
stored in the areas that were claimed to have been reclaimed. In the corner of the garage, the
applicants claim everything in front of the line on the floor plan is for the business and everything
behind it has been reclaimed. The photos, however, still show tables, a microwave, a fridge, and
other articles for the business inside the area where the garage space should be.
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
April 25, 2024
Page 11

The negative impacts identified by staff would need to be mitigated if the Commission were to grant
approval. The staff report included a list of suggested conditions in the event the Commission wishes
to grant approval. The negative impacts include an increase in traffic and parking with the non-
resident employees and noise from the inventory deliveries and shipments. The applicants previously
stated on the record that they have stopped receiving deliveries by semi-truck but that was not
included in their updated operations statement. Other impacts include non-compliance with required
residential parking in the garage and the potential to continue to displace vehicles on the driveway.
There was also concern with the overall scale of the operation. Staff did not know what packaging
equipment they are using but stated that it will not create a nuisance. No additional details were
provided. In the most recent updates, the applicants indicated that they would take all the trash out
by using their cargo trailer. That has since been added as a business use. Staff was concerned about
it being disposed of in a lawful and legal manner. There was concern that the matter is being
unnecessarily delayed by the applicants and has been for some time.

Chair Adams asked for clarification on what was to have been provided for tonight’s meeting.
Mr. Draper explained that the applicants were to have provided accurate floor plans and square
footages. At the last meeting, Staff was primarily concerned about receiving an accurate layout of
the home, and additional details on the Parking Plan, and how they would alleviate the garage parking
issues. They were also asked to respond to the 19 suggested staff conditions and the ordinance
standards. The applicants only responded to about half of the standards for home occupations with
their new update.

Chair Adams commented that the proposal does not address all of the existing and anticipated
detrimental effects. One of the main impacts pertains to the number of shipments being delivered to
the home and the amount of waste being generated. He noted that it is a residential neighborhood
first and foremost.

Commissioner Fowler was concerned about the scope of the business. In the past, they have approved
a home occupation for preschools, a floral shop, or a baking business. She was of the opinion that
the operation occupies too much of the home. Mr. Draper explained that the square footage of the
home to be used is now under the typical limitations. Commissioner Fowler stated that the indication
from the applicants was that they are cleaning the garage to allow for the parking of vehicles as
required by Code. Mr. Draper added that the Code requires at least two parking stalls inside a garage.
Those parking stalls are each 10’ x 20’. Based on the details and measurements provided by the
applicants, there cannot be any storage in the two-car garage area along the garage wall, in the corner,
or within about two feet of the third-car garage area.

Commissioner Nixon was concerned that there is information that is still lacking and the applicants
are not present to answer the outstanding questions. That was of great concern to her.

Chair Adams agreed that the matter has been delayed unnecessarily but acknowledged that the list is
long as there are several detrimental impacts on the neighborhood. The intent was to mitigate those
and work with the applicants. The comment was made that the applicants have had adequate time to
come into compliance.
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
April 25, 2024
Page 12

Commissioner Squire asked about the modified use of the trailer for business use and how it affects
parking and the square footage used for the business. Mr. Draper explained that staff would typically
ensure that they are parked legally. He did not believe that it would expand any square footage beyond
allowable limits. If used for business use, staff recommended it be screened from view.

The comment was made that the applicants did have a long parking strip on the side of the home. Ms.
Jastremsky stated that in the code for personal use, “recreational vehicles including trailers, travel
trailers, boats, watercraft, utility trailers, and motor homes parked in residential zones shall be parked
behind the front wall plane of the primary structure on the same property and conform to the design
and construction standards” in the section that addresses paving requirements and ground cover
requirements. There was no requirement with regards to fencing for typical residential use. Ms.
Jastremsky stated that the Planning Commission could address whether it is appropriate to screen the
trailer that is now to be used for the business.

Commissioner Fowler referenced page 11 of the staff report, item K which addresses vehicles. It
states, “The standard is that other than the business owner’s personal transportation, there shall be no
vehicles or equipment on the property associated with the home occupation, which would not
normally be found at the residence. No signage for the home occupation shall be allowed on
vehicles.” Commissioner Fowler commented that they do not know if the trailer would normally be
there. Chair Adams felt there were plenty of instances where the use is a nuisance.

Commissioner Nixon asked what the process would be to ensure that the business is removed if the
request is denied. Ms. Jastremsky stated that it would go through Code Enforcement. The Business
License Application would first be denied. The City would notify the courts of the denial of the
Business License as they have an ongoing citation for operating without a Business License. The
Conditional Use Permit Application would also be denied, and Code Enforcement would issue a
Cease-and-Desist Letter. The applicant would be given a time period with which to leave the
property. It was expected to be a multi-month process. The applicants could choose to reapply or
could appeal the denial within 10 days.

Motion: Commissioner Fowler moved to DENY the Raining Hot Coupons, LLC Home
Occupation Conditional Use Permit as requested by Sarah Gibbons representing Application
2023-4587-USE based on the following:

Findings for Denial:

       1.      The proposal does not address all existing and anticipated detrimental effects of
               the business.

       2.      Impacts remain from the existing and anticipated detrimental effects of the
               business that are not able to be sufficiently mitigated through the imposition of
               reasonable mitigation measures.

       3.      The proposed use is not in harmony with the objectives and requirements of the
               City's General Plan and will be detrimental to the health, safety, or general
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
April 25, 2024
Page 13

              welfare of persons residing or working in the vicinity, or injurious to property or
              improvements in the vicinity.

       4.     The proposed use does not comply with applicable regulations and conditions
              specified in ordinance and does not comply with the intent of the City General
              Plan.

       5.     The nature and scope of the proposed business is industrially scaled, conflicting
              both with the defined intent of use type to not include mass production and with
              the stated purposes of the RA2 zone to protect primary residential uses from
              commercial and industrial encroachment.

       6.     The specific property is not suitable for the magnitude of the proposed use.

Second: Commissioner Nixon.

Vote: A roll call was taken with the Commissioners voting 5-to-0 in favor of the
motion. Commissioners Squire, Nixon, Fowler, Fidler, and Green voted “Yes”. The motion to
deny the request passed unanimously.

Commissioner Nixon found it unfortunate that the applicants were not present to answer some of the
outstanding questions.

2.     Adjournment.

Motion: Commissioner Squire moved to ADJOURN.

Vote: The motion passed with the unanimous consent of the Commission.

The meeting adjourned at 7:54 PM.
