                                   Development Review Committee
                                        1020 East Pioneer Road
                                          Draper, UT 84020
                                           July 26th, 2024

To:              Draper City Planning Commission
                 Business Date: August 8th, 2024

From:            Development Review Committee

Prepared By: Nick Whittaker, MCMP, Planner II
             Planning Division
             Community Development Department
             801-576-6522, Nick.Whittaker@draperutah.gov

Re:     Gearbox IT LLC Home Occupation – Conditional Use Permit Request
        Application No.: 2024-0222-USE
        Applicant:        Kendall Lewis representing Gearbox IT LLC
        Project Location: 11871 S Inauguration Rd.
        Current Zoning: R3 (Single-family residential)
        Acreage:          Approximately 0.11 acres (4,791 ft2)
        Request:          Request for approval of a Conditional Use Permit in the R3 zone
                          regarding a home-occupation that provides out call tech and
                          security system services and installations.


BACKGROUND AND SUMMARY

This application is a request for approval of a Conditional Use Permit for approximately
0.11 acres located on the east side of Inauguration Rd at approximately 11874 S
Inauguration Rd (Exhibits B and C). The property is currently zoned R3. The applicant is
requesting that a Conditional Use Permit be approved to allow for a home-occupation that
provides out call tech and security system services and installations.

The property is Lot 359 of the Inauguration Phase 3 Subdivision which has a detached
single-family dwelling (SFD) as the primary structure on the property. The home was
constructed in 1997. The business office is located in an upstairs bedroom and additional
supplies are stored off-site in a commercial warehouse. One work vehicle is stored on the
subject property and will be parked on a dedicated stall located on the property next to the
driveway. No other areas of the property are utilized for the business.



Gearbox IT, LLC. Home Occupation                                   App. # 2024-0222-USE
Conditional Use Permit Request                   1
ANALYSIS

General Plan and Zoning.

 Table 1                   General Plan and Zoning Designations                      Exhibit
 Existing Land Use         Residential Medium Density                                D
 Current Zoning            R3                                                        E
 Proposed Use              Home occupation as a secondary use to SFD
 Adjacent Zoning           R3
     East                  R3
     West                  R3
     North                 R3
     South                 R3

The Residential Medium Density land use designation is characterized as follows:




According to Draper City Municipal Code (DCMC) Section 9-8-020, the purpose of the R3
zone is to, “permit medium density residential development without special mitigation
requirements. This zone is intended to provide incentives to foster residential development with



Gearbox IT, LLC. Home Occupation                                       App. # 2024-0222-USE
Conditional Use Permit Request                  2
little impact on its surroundings and on municipal services, and to generally preserve the
semirural character called for in the density element of the general plan.”

Site Plan Layout. The applicant has provided a detailed overview of the space used within
the property for businesses related use which is attached in Exhibit F. A location for the
business vehicle to park on the south side of the existing driveway is indicated. The current
length and width of the stall is not dimensioned on the plans and the size appears to be
insufficient to comply with minimum parking space dimensions of eighteen feet (18’) deep
by nine feet (9’) wide.

Parking. The applicant is seeking approval through this conditional use application to park
one business vehicle at the property and has agreed to create a dedicated parking spot for
the work vehicle next to the existing driveway in the rear yard that will comply with all
residential parking requirements, including but not limited to minimum size and paving
requirements. Staff has included as a suggested condition for approval that the parking
stall for the business vehicle be installed in compliance with the minimum size and
pavement requirements of the parking ordinance.

Home Occupation. The DCMC Section 9-34-040 outlines development standards applicable
to all home occupations. Those criteria, along with information specific to the subject
request, are as follows:

        A. Ownership: The home occupation shall be owned and operated by a person who
           resides in the dwelling where the home occupation is located. Such person shall be
           the primary provider of the labor, work, or service provided in the home occupation.
           • The applicant is the business owner of Gearbox IT LLC, and is the owner and
               resident of the property at 11871 S Inauguration Rd.

        B. Business License: A business license for the home occupation shall be obtained from
           and continually maintained with the city pursuant to title 6, chapter 11 of this code.
           • The applicant has previously obtained a business license for a home-based
              office from Draper City and has continuously maintained that license since
              2015. As the applicant has begun storing a business vehicle on the property a
              Conditional Use Permit is now required before a new business license can be
              issued. The applicant will be required to maintain an active business license
              for as long as the business is in operation from the residence.

        C. Employees: Members of the family of the owner who reside in the dwelling may be
           employed in the home occupation. Nonfamily or nonresident employees shall be
           limited to one person.
           • The applicant has multiple employees who work at the warehouse, but only
               the applicant will be working at the subject property.




Gearbox IT, LLC. Home Occupation                                       App. # 2024-0222-USE
Conditional Use Permit Request                  3
        D. Inspection: All facilities shall comply with fire, building, plumbing, electrical and all
           other city, county, state and federal codes. Inspections during reasonable hours by
           city officials may occur as necessary to assure compliance with regulations.
           • The applicant has maintained a business license with Draper City since 2015
                and is aware of and will comply with required inspections as necessary.

        E. Inventory: No stock in trade, inventory, or other merchandise to exceed two hundred
           fifty (250) square feet shall be kept on the premises. No outside storage is allowed.
           • The applicant does not keep any inventory at the subject property. All
                inventory is kept at a separate business warehouse not located in Draper.

        F. Modification Of Structures Or Yards: There shall be no visible evidence from the
           exterior of a dwelling that it is being used for any other purpose than that of a
           dwelling. No activities shall be carried on outside the dwelling in the yard for the
           benefit of or incidental to the home occupation. No front yard area shall be altered to
           provide parking required for a home occupation.
           • The applicant is seeking approval to park a business vehicle at the subject
               property. The driveway is located in the rear yard and accessed by a private
               road and the parking stall will be located next to the driveway in the rear
               yard. No alteration in the front yard will be required.
           • The applicant will create a dedicated parking spot for the work vehicle
               located next to the existing driveway on the property and will not block use
               of the existing driveway or garage providing the required residential parking.

        G. Nuisance: Tools, items, equipment, or activities conducted within the dwelling which is
           offensive or noxious by reason of the emission of odor, smoke, gas, vibration,
           magnetic interference, or noise shall be prohibited.
           • The applicant has indicated that the business use of the property will not
               create any of the above-listed nuisances.

        H. Secondary Use: The home occupation shall be clearly incidental and secondary to the
           primary use of the dwelling for residential purposes. The home occupation shall not
           disrupt the normal residential character of the neighborhood in which the residence
           is located. Not more than twenty five percent (25%) of the dwelling unit shall be used
           for the home occupation.
           • The size of the office is 154 square feet which is 10% of the overall square
                footage of the applicant’s home.

        I.   Signs: All signage in a residential area must comply with chapter 26, "Signs", of this
             title.
             • There is no business signage on the property and none is proposed at this
                  time.




Gearbox IT, LLC. Home Occupation                                          App. # 2024-0222-USE
Conditional Use Permit Request                     4
        J.   Traffic, Parking, And Access: No home occupation use shall generate pedestrian,
             parking, or vehicular traffic in excess of that customarily associated with the zone in
             which the use is located. All parking shall be provided and maintained on site with
             adequate provision for drop off traffic.
             • The applicant does not have customers come to the subject property
             • The applicant does not have employees come to the property, they work
                 exclusively from the warehouse location.
             • The applicant is seeking approval to park one business vehicle at the
                 property and will create a dedicated parking spot for the work vehicle located
                 next to the existing driveway in the rear yard.

        K. Vehicles: Other than the business owner's personal transportation, there shall be no
           vehicles or equipment on the property associated with the home occupation which
           would not normally be found at a residence. No signage for the home occupation
           shall be allowed on vehicles.
           • The applicant is seeking approval to park one business vehicle at the
              property and will create a dedicated parking spot for the work vehicle located
              next to the existing driveway in the rear yard.
           • There will be no signage on the business vehicle.

        L. Yards: Yards surrounding the dwelling and accessory buildings shall not be used for
           any activities or storage of any materials associated with the home occupation.
           • The applicant has indicated that they will use part of the rear yard that is
              next to the rear yard driveway to construct a dedicated parking stall for
              parking the one business vehicle.

        M. Customers: No customers allowed. Children accessing a limited daycare or limited
           preschool facility shall not be considered customers.
           • The applicant does not have customers that come to the subject property.

        N. Utility Demand: The home occupation shall not cause a demand for public utilities in
           excess of that necessarily and customarily provided for residential uses.
           • The business use does not create a demand for an excess of public utilities
                above that customarily provided for residential uses.

        O. Main Structure: The home occupations shall be conducted, located, and contained
           within the primary structure on the property.
           • Aside from the area for parking the business vehicle the home occupation is
               located entirely within the primary structure.

        P. Single-Family And Multiple-Family Dwellings: Home occupations listed as permitted or
           conditional within this title may be permitted in a single-family or a multiple-family
           dwelling, subject to the standards found within this section and section 9-34-060 of



Gearbox IT, LLC. Home Occupation                                         App. # 2024-0222-USE
Conditional Use Permit Request                    5
             this chapter. Businesses within multiple-family dwellings shall provide an approval
             letter from the respective homeowners' association, or management company in the
             case of apartments, if the business proposes any employees, customers or business
             vehicles.
             • The business is not located within a multiple-family dwelling.

        Q. Licensure: Any home occupation involving childcare shall comply with all applicable
           state and local laws and regulations regarding residential childcare, including, but
           not limited to, provisions of the Utah child care licensing act, as set forth in Utah
           Code Annotated section 26-39-101 et seq., as amended, and the residential certificate
           childcare standards as set forth in the Utah administrative code section R430-50-1 et
           seq., as amended. In addition, cottage food production operations are regulated and
           inspected by the Utah department of agriculture. Any food related home occupation
           under their jurisdiction must comply with these regulations.
           • The business use does not involve child care or food production.

The business office is located in an upstairs bedroom and is only used for paperwork,
bookkeeping and bids and no customers come to the property. All Other business
operation are conducted off-site at a warehouse which is not located in Draper. Staff has
no concerns with the business operations as stated by the applicant in their responses
found in Exhibit G. Staff did note that the applicant did not directly respond to criteria I
though Q in their submitted responses.

Criteria For Approval.
The criteria for review and potential approval of a home occupation conditional use permit
request is found in Section 9-5-080(E) of the DCMC. This section depicts the standard of
review for such requests as:

        E. Approval Standards: The standards of this subsection shall apply to the issuance of a
            conditional use permit:
         1. A conditional use permit may be issued for a use to be located within a zone where
            the particular conditional use is allowed by the use regulations of the zone.
         2. Reasonable conditions may be imposed as necessary to substantially mitigate
            reasonably anticipated detrimental effects of the proposed use. These conditions may
            include conditions concerning use, construction, character, location, landscaping,
            screening, parking, hours of operation, and other matters relating to the purposes
            and objectives of this section. Such conditions shall be expressly set forth in the
            motion authorizing the conditional use permit.
         3. If the reasonably anticipated detrimental effects of a proposed conditional use
            cannot be substantially mitigated by the imposition of reasonable conditions to
            achieve compliance with applicable standards, the conditional use may be denied.
         4. The following factors shall be reviewed and considered in determining whether a
            conditional use permit application should be approved, approved with conditions, or



Gearbox IT, LLC. Home Occupation                                       App. # 2024-0222-USE
Conditional Use Permit Request                   6
             denied because reasonable conditions cannot be imposed to achieve compliance with
             applicable standards:
              a. The harmony and compliance of the proposed use with the objectives and
                  requirements of the city's general plan and this title;
              b. The suitability of the specific property for the proposed use;
              c. Whether the proposed use or facility may be injurious to potential or existing
                  development in the vicinity;
              d. The economic impact of the proposed facility or use on the surrounding area;
              e. The aesthetic impact of the proposed facility or use on the surrounding area;
              f. The safeguards proposed or provided to ensure adequate utilities, transportation
                  access, drainage, parking, loading space, lighting, screening, landscaping, open
                  space, fire protection, and pedestrian and vehicular circulation;
              g. The safeguards provided or proposed to prevent noxious or offensive emissions
                  such as noise, glare, dust, pollutants and odor from the proposed facility or use;
                  and
              h. The impact of the proposed facility or use on the health, safety, and welfare of the
                  city, the area, and persons owning or leasing property in the area.
          5. The planning commission may request additional information as may be reasonably
             needed to determine whether the requirements of this subsection E can be met.



REVIEWS

Planning Division Review. The Draper City Planning Division has completed their review of
the Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit submission. Comments from this division, if
any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Engineering and Public Works Divisions Review. The Draper City Engineering and Public
Works Divisions have completed their reviews of the Home Occupation Conditional Use
Permit submission. Comments from these divisions, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Building Division Review. The Draper City Building Division has completed their review of the
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit submission. Comments from this division, if any,
can be found in Exhibit A.

Fire Division Review. The Draper City Fire Marshal has completed his review of the Home
Occupation Conditional Use Permit Submission. Comments from this division, if any, can
be found in Exhibit A.

Noticing. Notice has been properly issued in the manner outlined in the City and State
Codes.




Gearbox IT, LLC. Home Occupation                                          App. # 2024-0222-USE
Conditional Use Permit Request                    7
STAFF RECOMMENDATION
Staff recommends that the Planning Commission approve the request based on the
findings listed below and the criteria for approval, as listed within the staff report. The
Planning Commission should also review the request, hear from the applicant, and receive
public comment prior to making a decision.

If the Planning Commission decides to approve the request, staff recommends they include
the following conditions of approval:

        1.       That all requirements of the Draper City Engineering, Public Works, Building,
                 Planning, and Fire Divisions shall be satisfied prior to issuance of a business
                 license or its renewal.
        2.       Only one (1) business vehicle shall be allowed at the subject property, and
                 the business vehicle may not be parked on the street or alley.
        3.       A designated parking spot for the business vehicle shall be constructed on
                 the subject property of either concrete or asphalt and in compliance with the
                 standards found in DCMC 9-25-080(J)(1).



MODEL MOTIONS AND FINDINGS

Sample Motion for Approval – I move that we approve the Home Occupation Conditional
Use Permit, as requested by Kendall Lewis representing Gearbox IT LLC, application 2024-
0222-USE, based on the findings for approval and subject to the conditions listed in the
Staff Report dated July 26, 2024.

The findings for approval are:

        1. The proposal complies with the standards for approval found in DCMC Section 9-
           5-080(E) and potential negative impacts are mitigated through the imposition of
           reasonable conditions.

I move that we approve the Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit, as requested by
Kendall Lewis representing Gearbox IT LLC, application 2024-0222-USE, based on the
findings for approval and subject to the conditions listed in the Staff Report dated July 26,
2024 and as modified by the following additional findings or conditions:

        1. List any additional findings…
        2. List any additional conditions…




Gearbox IT, LLC. Home Occupation                                       App. # 2024-0222-USE
Conditional Use Permit Request                  8
                                      EXHIBIT A
                                 DEPARTMENT REVIEWS

REVIEWS ARE NOT MEANT TO BE AN ALL INCLUSIVE LIST OF POSSIBLE COMMENTS OR
CONDITIONS.



Planning Division Review.

       1.      No additional comments.

Engineering and Public Works Divisions Review.

       1. Business van parking is required to be on hard surface, either concrete or
          asphalt, not the current gravel pad, per DCMC 9-25-080(J)(1).

Building Division Review.

       1.      No additional comments.

Fire Division Review.

       1.      No additional comments.
  EXHIBIT B
VICINITY MAP
 EXHIBIT C
AERIAL MAP
  EXHIBIT D
LAND USE MAP
 EXHIBIT E
ZONING MAP
   EXHIBIT F
SCHEMATIC PLANS
             EXHIBIT G
APPLICANT STATEMENTS AND RESPONSES
