                                   RESOLUTION NO. 24-24

       A RESOLUTION OF THE DRAPER CITY COUNCIL AMENDING
       SECTION 8020 OF THE PERSONNEL POLICIES AND PROCEDURES
       MANUAL REGARDING POLICY VACATION LEAVE

        WHEREAS, The City Council reviews and adopts policies and procedures to assist in
the efficient utilization of City resources and the fair and uniform application of requirements
and benefits to City employees; and

      WHEREAS, The City Council has reviewed Policy 8020 of the Personnel Policies and
Procedures Manual and has determined a need to amend the Vacation Leave Policy; and

      WHEREAS, The City Council believes this amendment is in the best interest of the
employees of Draper City.


      NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF DRAPER
CITY, STATE OF UTAH, AS FOLLOWS:

       Section 1.   Amendment. The Draper City Council does hereby adopt the
amendments to Policy 8020 of the Personnel Policies and Procedures Manual as attached hereto
as Exhibit “A.”

        Section 2.     Severability. If any section, part or provision of this Resolution is held
invalid or unenforceable, such invalidity or unenforceability shall not affect any other portion of
this Resolution, and all sections, parts and provisions of this Resolution shall be severable.

       Section 3.      Effective Date. This Resolution shall become effective immediately
upon its passage.

     PASSED AND ADOPTED BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF DRAPER CITY,
STATE OF UTAH, THIS THE 04 DAY OF JUNE, 2024.
                                     DRAPER CITY


                                     _____________________________
                                     Mayor Troy K. Walker

ATTEST:


_________________________________
Laura Oscarson, MMC, City Recorder


VOTE TAKEN:                          YES                NO

Councilmember Green

Councilmember Johnson

Councilmember T. Lowery

Councilmember F. Lowy

Councilmember Roberts

Mayor Walker
                                          EXHIBIT “A”

                                  Section 8020 – Vacation Leave
                                      (Amended 06/04/2024)

   Draper City provides full-time employees the opportunity to accrue paid vacation as detailed
   in this policy.

Policy:

   1. Eligibility. Eligible employees may take vacation after it has been earned and accrued.
      Part-time, seasonal, and temporary employees are not eligible for paid vacation leave,
      but may take leave without pay as approved by their supervisor. In limited
      circumstances, pre-authorized absences without pay may be granted to full-time
      employees who have no accrued leave available. Refer to Section 8070 Unpaid
      Personal Leave.

   2. Vacation Leave Accrual. Vacation leave accrual is based on hours worked and length
      of employment service, and may not be taken until earned and accrued. Service credit
      may be given at the Department Director’s discretion, to employees at hire, who have
      worked in other municipalities. A new hire may be frontloaded vacation leave with
      City Manager or designee approval. Vacation leave does not accrue during an unpaid
      personal leave of absence.

          Vacation leave accrues at the following rates.

                              General Government and Police       Sworn Fire Personnel 2912
           Years of Service   Biweekly Annual Carryover         Monthly Annual Carryover
          0 to 12 months        3.08      80.00      120.00      10.00      120.00     180.00
          1 to 4.99             4.62     120.00      180.00      15.00      180.00     270.00
          5 to 9.99             6.15     160.00      240.00      20.00      240.00     360.00
          10+                   7.69     200.00      300.00      25.00      300.00     450.00

          2.1 Department Directors will accrue at the highest level of years of service as stated
              above.
          2.2 Sworn fire personnel who transfer between a 2912 and 2080 schedule will follow the
              general government accrual rate based on years of service and have their accruals
              adjusted. Accrual adjustments between 2080 and 2912 are calculated on 2:3
              conversion rate.
          2.3 Employees who make a permanent change to their employment status, e.g., full-time
              to part-time, will have their leave paid out at their current rate of pay at time of
              employment status change.
3. Vacation Leave Requests. Subject to Section 8070 Unpaid Personal Leave, full-time
   employees are expected to report 40 hours per week on their timecard. An employee
   must have available vacation leave for absences taken pursuant to this vacation leave
   policy. Advance use of vacation leave is not allowed. With the City’s needs in mind,
   every effort will be made to grant employee requested vacation leave dates.

   3.1 Leave time should be requested with as much advance notice as practicable. If
       conflict exists in scheduling time off within the same department or division, priority
       will be given to the first advance request submitted. If requests are submitted at the
       same time, seniority will determine which employee is granted vacation leave.
   3.2 Vacation leave requests are subject to supervisor approval, based upon operating
       requirements, staffing considerations, and business necessity.

4. Vacation Leave Reporting For Exempt Employees. Vacation leave taken by exempt
   employees will be charged in minimum units of one half day of work. Full day absences
   will be reported as a full day of vacation. Absences of less than one half day will not be
   counted against an exempt employee’s leave balance. Absences of more than one half
   day will require a substitution of one half day of vacation leave.

5. Vacation Leave Rules.
    5.1.A city holiday that occurs during scheduled vacation leave will not be counted as
        vacation leave.
    5.2 Employees on a leave of absence, other than a military leave of absence, or as
        prohibited by law, are required to use all accrued and earned leave, compensatory
        time off, and holiday before unpaid personal leave may be granted.
    5.3 Vacation leave shall be considered abused when an employee uses vacation leave
        for purposes contrary to this policy, for example, using vacation leave rather than
        sick leave. Abuse of vacation leave may result in corrective action, up to, and
        including termination.
    5.4 Vacation leave pay is calculated using an employee’s base rate of pay at the time of
        absence.
    5.5 Vacation leave does not count towards actual hours worked for the purpose of
        calculating overtime. If an employee works an extra shift or additional hours during
        a week where vacation leave has also been used, the vacation leave will be paid out
        at straight time and will not be counted as hours worked for overtime purposes.
    5.6 Vacation leave shall not be used to extend a date of separation.

6. Donated Leave. In the case of an employee’s serious illness or serious injury, city
   employees with an accrued vacation leave balance in excess of 80 hours may donate
   vacation leave hours to a seriously ill or seriously injured employee. After the donation
   of vacation leave hours, the donating employee must have a minimum balance of 80
   hours of accrued vacation leave. Vacation leave hours will be deducted from an
   employee’s vacation leave balance account and added to the seriously ill or seriously
   injured employee’s sick leave balance account. The City Manager and the department
   directors of the employees involved in the transfer of leave hours must approve the
   transfer. In order for an employee to receive donated leave hours, the employee
   receiving the leave donation must meet the eligibility requirements of the Family and
   Medical Leave Act (FMLA) and be on approved FMLA, have exhausted all vacation
   leave, sick leave, compensation time leave, and holiday leave time available for use in
   their combined leave balances. Refer to Section 8010. Employees who have been
   disciplined for abuse or misuse of their sick or vacation leave within the 12 months of
   requesting the donated leave are ineligible to receive donated vacation leave. Donation
   of vacation leave to an employee may not exceed 160 hours (240 for sworn fire
   personnel assigned to a 2912 schedule) and will be forfeited after approved leave of
   absence ends, and the donated hours will be credited back to the donors on a pro rata
   basis. Refer to Section 8015 Donated Leave.

7. Vacation Leave Carryover. The maximum carryover of vacation leave into the next
   calendar year is one and one half year’s accrual amount, based on the employees’ annual
   accrual rate as of December 31. Accrued vacation leave in excess of that amount
   existing on December 31 of each year will be forfeited, and the employee’s vacation
   balance will be reduced to the maximum carryover limit effective January 1. (Sworn fire
   personnel who transfer from a 2912 to a 2080 schedule will follow the general
   government maximum carryover.)

   Department directors and division managers will be given an exception to this policy
   when workload demands prevent them from using vacation leave. Exceptions must be
   approved by the City Manager and submitted to Human Resources by December 31.
   Excess hours will either be cashed out by the end of January based on the employee’s
   current regular rate of pay on December 31, or they may choose to have the equivalent
   dollar amount contributed to their qualified URS retirement savings or health savings
   account.

8. Employees who separate from employment with the city will receive a payout of all
   unused vacation leave on their final paycheck. Employees may choose to contribute all
   or a portion of their unused vacation leave to their qualified URS retirement savings or
   health savings account in lieu of a cash payment.
