                                    Development Review Committee
                                        1020 East Pioneer Road
                                           Draper, UT 84020
                                            May 29, 2024

To:               Draper City Planning Commission
                  Business Date: June 13, 2024

From:             Development Review Committee

Prepared By: Todd Taylor, Planner III
             Planning Division
             Community Development Department
             801-576-6510, todd.taylor@draperutah.gov

Re:      Copper Creek Electric, LLC – Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit Request
         Application No.:  2023-4607-USE
         Applicant:        Trisha Cutrer
         Project Location: 13603 S. 300 E.
         Current Zoning:   RA1 (Residential Agricultural, 40,000 ft2 minimum lot size) Zone
         Acreage:          1.46 Acres (Approximately 63,598 ft2)
         Request:          Request for approval of a Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit
                           for a home office with additional non-resident employees and work
                           vehicles.


BACKGROUND AND SUMMARY

This application is a request for approval of a Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit for
approximately 1.46 acres located at 13603 S. 300 E. (Exhibit B & C). The property is zoned RA1
(Residential Agricultural, 40,000 ft2 minimum lot size). The applicant is requesting that a Home
Occupation Conditional Use Permit be approved to allow a home office with two (2) non-family,
non-resident employees coming to the home, and for the storage and use of one (1) work vehicle
as part of the business.

According to County records and aerial imagery, the dwelling was built in 1980. A detached
garage and a barn were built in following years. The detached garage was later converted into an
illegal accessory dwelling unit which has since been removed and the structure is now utilized as
a personal storage building. Between 2006-2007 the principal dwelling was expanded, a six (6)
car garage and shop were constructed, and a go-kart track and port cochere were added to the
property. A Detached Accessory Dwelling Unit (D-ADU) was approved in a portion of the shop
and six (6) car garage structure in 2022. Copper Creek Electric, LLC has had a business license
with Draper City since 2003 and moved the business to this location in 2014.




Copper Creek Electric, LLC                                           App. No. 2023-4607-USE
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit           1
ANALYSIS

General Plan and Zoning.

 Table 1                     General Plan and Zoning Designations                         Exhibit
 Existing Land Use           Residential Low-Medium Density                               Exhibit D
 Current Zoning              RA1                                                          Exhibit E
 Adjacent Zoning
    East                     RA2 (Residential Agricultural, 20,000 ft² lot minimum)
    West                     RA1, RA2
    North                    RA1, RA2
    South                    RA1, RA2

The Residential Low-Medium Density land use designation is characterized as follows:




According to Draper City Municipal Code (DCMC) Section 9-8-020: “The purpose of the RA1 zone
is to foster low density development with little impact on its surroundings and municipal services;
to generally preserve the character of the city's semirural areas; and to promote and preserve
conditions favorable to large lot family life, including the keeping of limited numbers of animals
and fowl. The predominant use in these zones is intended to be detached single-family dwellings,
protected from encroachment by commercial and industrial uses.”




Copper Creek Electric, LLC                                                 App. No. 2023-4607-USE
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit               2
Home Occupation.

The home office is located in the primary dwelling unit (Exhibit F). The two (2) additional non-
resident employees park their vehicles behind the fence and take the work vehicle that is parked
at the dwelling to the job-site (Exhibit G). Electrical equipment is stored within an older barn
structure located to the south of the parking area.

DCMC Section 9-34-040 outlines development standards applicable to all home occupations.
Those criteria, along with information specific to the subject request, are as follows:

    A. Ownership: The home occupation shall be owned and operated by a person who resides
       in the dwelling where the home occupation is located. Such person shall be the primary
       provider of the labor, work, or service provided in the home occupation.

         The business owners, Jeff and Trisha Cutrer, reside on the property and have their home
         office in the dwelling. Jeff and Trisha provide labor/service for the business along with their
         two (2) non-resident employees. During school breaks, their two (2) sons may return to
         live at the dwelling and also work for the business potentially increasing the total number
         of resident employees to four (4)

    B. Business License: A business license for the home occupation shall be obtained from and
       continually maintained with the city pursuant to Title 6, Chapter 11 of this code.

         The applicant understands that a current business license will be required to be
         maintained with Draper City through the life of business operations from the dwelling.

    C. Employees: Members of the family of the owner who reside in the dwelling may be
       employed in the home occupation. Nonfamily or nonresident employees shall be limited
       to one person.

         The applicant is requesting that the business be permitted two (2) non-resident
         employees. These employees park their vehicles on a portion of the driveway, behind the
         fence, between 7:30 a.m. and 4:00 p.m. and take the work vehicle that is stored at the
         residence to jobsites. As the residency status of the two (2) sons was not addressed in
         the application, staff suggests that they be considered as allowable family member
         resident employees when living at the property and working for the business, but as non-
         resident employees if not living at the property but working for the business. The proposed
         limit of no more than two (2) non-resident employees of the business would still need to
         be maintained.

    D. Inspection: All facilities shall comply with fire, building, plumbing, electrical and all other
       city, county, state and federal codes. Inspections during reasonable hours by city officials
       may occur as necessary to assure compliance with regulations.

         Inspections for compliance with fire, building, plumbing, and electrical code will be
         completed as part of the business license review process. The applicant understands that
         compliance with the applicable regulations will be required.

    E. Inventory: No stock in trade, inventory, or other merchandise to exceed two hundred fifty
       (250) square feet shall be kept on the premises. No outside storage is allowed.



Copper Creek Electric, LLC                                                 App. No. 2023-4607-USE
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit             3
         The applicant indicates that electrical supplies are stored in the barn, located at the
         southwestern corner of the property, in two (2) former horse stalls that each measure eight
         (8) ft by ten (10) ft, and do not exceed 250 ft2. There is no outside storage.

    F. Modification Of Structures Or Yards: There shall be no visible evidence from the exterior
       of a dwelling that it is being used for any other purpose than that of a dwelling. No activities
       shall be carried on outside the dwelling in the yard for the benefit of or incidental to the
       home occupation. No front yard area shall be altered to provide parking required for a
       home occupation.

         The applicant indicates that there will be no modification of structures or yard area. The
         employees park their vehicles on an existing portion of the driveway, behind the fence.
         The work vehicle is parked in the same area.

    G. Nuisance: Tools, items, equipment, or activities conducted within the dwelling which is
       offensive or noxious by reason of the emission of odor, smoke, gas, vibration, magnetic
       interference, or noise shall be prohibited.

         The applicant indicates that the use of all tools/equipment occurs at the jobsite, away from
         the dwelling, and will not create any of the listed nuisances at the subject property.

    H. Secondary Use: The home occupation shall be clearly incidental and secondary to the
       primary use of the dwelling for residential purposes. The home occupation shall not disrupt
       the normal residential character of the neighborhood in which the residence is located.
       Not more than twenty five percent (25%) of the dwelling unit shall be used for the home
       occupation.

         The applicant indicates that the primary use of the dwelling is for residential purposes. The
         home office is located within the primary dwelling, and the applicant has provided a picture
         of the office space (Exhibit F). The employees park their vehicles on an existing portion of
         the driveway, behind the fence. The work vehicle is parked in the same area.

         From the photo, it appears that the size of the home office is less than 25% of the dwelling.
         Additionally, the property and barn appear to have sufficient space to accommodate the
         storage of electrical equipment and work and employee vehicles, and the layout provides
         screening to minimize their impact on the character of the neighborhood.

    I.   Signs: All signage in a residential area must comply with Chapter 26, "Signs", of this title.

         The applicant indicates that there will be no signage for the business on the property, this
         would include vehicles.

    J. Traffic, Parking, And Access: No home occupation use shall generate pedestrian, parking,
       or vehicular traffic in excess of that customarily associated with the zone in which the use
       is located. All parking shall be provided and maintained on site with adequate provision
       for drop off traffic.

         The applicant indicates that non-resident employees park their vehicles on a portion of the
         driveway, behind the fence, between 7:30 a.m. and 4:00 p.m. while they are away at
         jobsites. The work vehicle is parked in the same area and is driven to the jobsite. No



Copper Creek Electric, LLC                                                App. No. 2023-4607-USE
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit             4
         customers will come to the property. The shop contains the D-ADU and a six (6) car
         garage; the required parking for the D-ADU may not be impacted by the parking for the
         business.

    K. Vehicles: Other than the business owner's personal transportation, there shall be no
       vehicles or equipment on the property associated with the home occupation which would
       not normally be found at a residence. No signage for the home occupation shall be allowed
       on vehicles.

         The applicant is requesting that the business be permitted the use of one (1) work vehicle.
         The work vehicle has no signage and is parked on a portion of the driveway located behind
         the fence. The non-resident employees park their vehicles, between 7:30 a.m. and 4:00
         p.m. in the same area, and take the work vehicle to the jobsites.

    L. Yards: Yards surrounding the dwelling and accessory buildings shall not be used for any
       activities or storage of any materials associated with the home occupation.

         The applicant indicates that non-resident employees park their vehicles on a portion of the
         driveway, behind the fence, between 7:30 a.m. and 4:00 p.m. while they are away at
         jobsites. The work vehicle is parked in the same general area overnight and on weekends.
         There is no outside storage of materials.

    M. Customers: No customers allowed. Children accessing a limited daycare or limited
       preschool facility shall not be considered customers.

         The applicant indicates that there will be no customers at the dwelling. This request is not
         related to daycare or preschool.

    N. Utility Demand: The home occupation shall not cause a demand for public utilities in
       excess of that necessarily and customarily provided for residential uses.

         The applicant indicates that the home occupation will not create an excessive demand to
         existing public utilities.

    O. Main Structure: The home occupations shall be conducted, located, and contained within
       the primary structure on the property.

         The applicant indicates that the home office is located within the primary dwelling and the
         labor is performed at job-sites. The employees park their vehicles on an existing portion
         of the driveway, behind the fence. The work vehicle is parked in the same general area.
         Additionally, electrical supplies are stored in the barn that is located at the southwestern
         corner of the property, in two (2) former horse stalls that each measure eight (8) ft by ten
         (10) ft, and do not exceed 250 ft2.

    P. Single-Family And Multiple-Family Dwellings: Home occupations listed as permitted or
       conditional within this title may be permitted in a single-family or a multiple-family dwelling,
       subject to the standards found within this section and Section 9-34-060 of this chapter.
       Businesses within multiple-family dwellings shall provide an approval letter from the
       respective homeowners' association, or management company in the case of apartments,
       if the business proposes any employees, customers or business vehicles.




Copper Creek Electric, LLC                                                App. No. 2023-4607-USE
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit            5
         The home occupation is associated with a single-family dwelling.

    Q. Licensure: Any home occupation involving childcare shall comply with all applicable state
       and local laws and regulations regarding residential childcare, including, but not limited to,
       provisions of the Utah child care licensing act, as set forth in Utah Code Annotated section
       26-39-101 et seq., as amended, and the residential certificate childcare standards as set
       forth in the Utah administrative code section R430-50-1 et seq., as amended. In addition,
       cottage food production operations are regulated and inspected by the Utah department
       of agriculture. Any food related home occupation under their jurisdiction must comply with
       these regulations.

         This business does not include childcare or food handling.

The applicant’s responses to each of the individual Criteria A thru Q above are included in this
report as Exhibit H.

The use of a home office is listed as a permitted use, however the manner in which the applicant
is requesting to operate the business does not conform to all of the permitted use criteria; with
the request for additional non-resident employees and a work vehicle. Therefore, a Conditional
Use Permit is required. Potential negative impacts mainly include the additional vehicles coming
to the property and parking, both of which are sufficiently mitigated through the proposed limits to
the hours of operation and the general parking location being behind an existing six-foot tall fence.
As the parking plan lacks sufficient detail to determine compliance with all parking requirements,
staff suggests as a condition of approval that an updated plan be provided to staff showing where
each parking stall will be located and the dimensions of the stalls and access aisles so that
compliance with minimum regulations of the parking ordinance can be verified.

Criteria For Approval.
The criteria for review and potential approval of a conditional use permit request is found in DCMC
Section 9-5-080(E). This section depicts the standard of review for such requests as:

    E. Approval Standards: The standards of this subsection shall apply to the issuance of a
       conditional use permit:
       1. A conditional use permit may be issued for a use to be located within a zone where
          the particular conditional use is allowed by the use regulations of the zone.
       2. Reasonable conditions may be imposed as necessary to substantially mitigate
          reasonably anticipated detrimental effects of the proposed use. These conditions
          may include conditions concerning use, construction, character, location,
          landscaping, screening, parking, hours of operation, and other matters relating to the
          purposes and objectives of this section. Such conditions shall be expressly set forth
          in the motion authorizing the conditional use permit.
       3. If the reasonably anticipated detrimental effects of a proposed conditional use cannot
          be substantially mitigated by the imposition of reasonable conditions to achieve
          compliance with applicable standards, the conditional use may be denied.
       4. The following factors shall be reviewed and considered in determining whether a
          conditional use permit application should be approved, approved with conditions, or
          denied because reasonable conditions cannot be imposed to achieve compliance
          with applicable standards:
          a. The harmony and compliance of the proposed use with the objectives and
               requirements of the city's general plan and this title;
          b. The suitability of the specific property for the proposed use;



Copper Creek Electric, LLC                                              App. No. 2023-4607-USE
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit            6
            c. Whether the proposed use or facility may be injurious to potential or existing
               development in the vicinity;
            d. The economic impact of the proposed facility or use on the surrounding area;
            e. The aesthetic impact of the proposed facility or use on the surrounding area;
            f. The safeguards proposed or provided to ensure adequate utilities, transportation
               access, drainage, parking, loading space, lighting, screening, landscaping, open
               space, fire protection, and pedestrian and vehicular circulation;
            g. The safeguards provided or proposed to prevent noxious or offensive emissions
               such as noise, glare, dust, pollutants and odor from the proposed facility or use;
               and
            h. The impact of the proposed facility or use on the health, safety, and welfare of
               the city, the area, and persons owning or leasing property in the area.
         5. The planning commission may request additional information as may be reasonably
            needed to determine whether the requirements of this subsection E can be met.

The applicants’ responses to the approval criteria listed in DCMC Section 9-5-080(E)(4) above
are contained in Exhibit H of the staff report.


REVIEWS

Planning Division Review. The Draper City Planning Division has completed their review of the
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit submission. Comments from this division, if any, can
be found in Exhibit A.

Engineering and Public Works Divisions Review. The Draper City Engineering and Public Works
Divisions have completed their reviews of the Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit
submission. Comments from these divisions, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Building Division Review. The Draper City Building Division has completed their review of the
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit submission. Comments from this division, if any, can
be found in Exhibit A.

Fire Division Review. The Draper City Fire Marshal has completed his review of the Home
Occupation Conditional Use Permit submission. Comments from this division, if any, can be found
in Exhibit A.

Noticing. Notice has been properly issued in the manner outlined in the City and State Codes.




STAFF RECOMMENDATION

Staff recommends that the Planning Commission review the request, receive public comment,
and approve the Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit for Power Stitch, LLC based on the
findings for approval as listed below and the criteria for approval as listed within the staff report.

If the Planning Commission decides to approve the request, staff recommends they include the
following conditions of approval:




Copper Creek Electric, LLC                                               App. No. 2023-4607-USE
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit            7
    1. That all requirements of the Draper City Engineering, Public Works, Building, Business
        Licensing, Planning, and Fire Divisions are satisfied throughout the operation of the
        business.
    2. That a business license shall be obtained and maintained for the life of the business.
    3. That no customers are allowed to come to the property.
    4. That the number of non-resident employees not exceed two (2).
    5. That the number of work vehicles associated with the business not exceed one (1).
    6. That the applicant submit an updated scaled and dimensioned parking plan to staff for
        review and approval of the parking locations.
    7. That the employee vehicle(s) associated with the business be parked on the existing
        driveway, behind the fence, screened from view from the street in the locations to be
        approved by staff with the updated parking plan.
    8. That the one (1) work vehicle be parked on the existing driveway, behind the fence,
        screened from view from the street in the location to be approved by staff with the updated
        parking plan.
    9. That storage of inventory or supplies be limited to the area inside the detached barn, and
        that it not exceed an area of two-hundred fifty (250) ft2. No outside storage related to the
        business is allowed.
    10. That no nuisance may be caused through tools, items, equipment, or activities conducted
        at the property which are offensive or noxious by reason of the emission of odor, smoke,
        gas, vibration, magnetic interference, or noise.


MODEL MOTIONS AND FINDINGS

Sample Motion for Approval – I move that we approve the Home Occupation Conditional Use
Permit, as requested by Trisha Cutrer, Application No. 2023-4607-USE, based on the findings
below and subject to the conditions listed in the staff report dated May 29, 2024.

Findings for approval:

    1. Reasonable mitigation measures are placed on the conditional use to alleviate anticipated
       detrimental effects.

Sample Motion for Modified Approval – I move that we approve the Home Occupation
Conditional Use Permit, as requested by Trisha Cutrer, Application No. 2023-4607-USE, subject
to the conditions listed in the staff report dated May 29, 2024, and per the following findings and
additional conditions:


Findings for approval:

    1. Reasonable mitigation measures are placed on the conditional use to alleviate anticipated
       detrimental effects.
    2. List any additional findings…

Additional Conditions:

    1. List any additional conditions…




Copper Creek Electric, LLC                                             App. No. 2023-4607-USE
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit           8
Sample Motion for Denial - I move that we deny the Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit,
as requested by Trisha Cutrer, Application No. 2023-4607-USE, based on the following findings:

Findings for denial:

    1. Reasonable mitigation measures cannot be placed on the conditional use to sufficiently
       alleviate anticipated detrimental effects.




Copper Creek Electric, LLC                                         App. No. 2023-4607-USE
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit        9
                                    EXHIBIT A
                               DEPARTMENT REVIEWS

REVIEWS ARE NOT MEANT TO BE AN ALL INCLUSIVE LIST OF POSSIBLE COMMENTS
OR CONDITIONS.


Planning Division Review.

       1.     No additional comments provided.

Engineering and Public Works Divisions Review.

       1.     No additional comments provided.

Building Division Review.

       1.     No additional comments provided.

Fire Division Review.

       1.     No additional comments provided.
  EXHIBIT B
VICINITY MAP
 EXHIBIT C
AERIAL MAP
  EXHIBIT D
LAND USE MAP
 EXHIBIT E
ZONING MAP
        EXHIBIT F
OVERVIEW OF PROPOSED USE
            OVERVIEW OF PROPOSED USE

            Copper Creek Electric, LLC
            13603 S 300 E, Draper, UT, 84020

            Home o ce, 2 parking spots for our employees (they arrive at 7:30 AM, leave for
            the job site and generally return and leave with cars by 4 PM). No expected
            patrons, no proposed site improvements, no detrimental e ects to adjacent
            properties in the neighborhood, the employee cars are parked behind our fence
            and not seen from the street.
            The o ce work is done inside the home, in the home o ce and requires no one
            coming or going and no modi cation.
ffi




      ffi




                            fi




                                                     ffi




                                                           ff
  EXHIBIT G
PARKING PLAN
          View from Street




          View looking back
          to street




          Parking area -
          behind fence, out
          of view from street
          and neighbors




PARKING
       EXHIBIT H
APPLICANT’S RESPONSES
Please include a statement addressing all standards that explain how you will comply or
modify these standards below. Though some standards may not be applicable to your
business, you will need to address these issues.


9-34-040: DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS; PERMITTED USE:
The development standards set forth in this section shall apply to any home occupation
allowed as a permitted use:
A. Ownership: The home occupation shall be owned and operated by a person who
resides in the dwelling where the home occupation is located. Such person shall be the
primary provider of the labor, work, or service provided in the home occupation.
 Yes, the home occupation will be owned and operated Jeff Cutrer who lives in the
home and provided labor/service etc.
B. Business License: A business license for the home occupation shall be obtained
from and continually maintained with the city pursuant to title 6, chapter 11 of this code.
 Yes
C. Employees: Members of the family of the owner who reside in the dwelling may be
employed in the home occupation. Nonfamily or nonresident employees shall be limited
to one person.
 We will have 2 employees (non family) coming to the home at 7:30am, parking their
cars behind our fence and then driving the work truck to the job site where labor is
performed. They will return to the home around 4:00pm and leave with their vehicles.
D. Inspection: All facilities shall comply with fire, building, plumbing, electrical and all
other city, county, state and federal codes. Inspections during reasonable hours by city
officials may occur as necessary to assure compliance with regulations.
Yes
E. Inventory: No stock in trade, inventory, or other merchandise to exceed two hundred
fifty (250) square feet shall be kept on the premises. No outside storage is allowed.
(Ord. 909, 7-21-2009).
 We store electrical supplies in 2 horse stalls in the barn.
F. Modification Of Structures Or Yards: There shall be no visible evidence from the
exterior of a dwelling that it is being used for any other purpose than that of a dwelling.
No activities shall be carried on outside the dwelling in the yard for the benefit of or
incidental to the home occupation. No front yard area shall be altered to provide parking
required for a home occupation. (Ord. 1132, 2-17-2015)
No modifications
G. Nuisance: Tools, items, equipment, or activities conducted within the dwelling which
is offensive or noxious by reason of the emission of odor, smoke, gas, vibration,
magnetic interference, or noise shall be prohibited.
Won’t be using nuisance tools/equipment at the home - all labor is away on a job site.
H. Secondary Use: The home occupation shall be clearly incidental and secondary to
the primary use of the dwelling for residential purposes. The home occupation shall not
disrupt the normal residential character of the neighborhood in which the residence is
located. Not more than twenty five percent (25%) of the dwelling unit shall be used for
the home occupation.
The primary use of dwelling is for residence.
I. Signs: All signage in a residential area must comply with chapter 26, "Signs", of this
title.
No signage.
J. Traffic, Parking, And Access: No home occupation use shall generate pedestrian,
parking, or vehicular traffic in excess of that customarily associated with the zone in
which the use is located. All parking shall be provided and maintained on site with
adequate provision for drop off traffic.
The parking is behind our fence, not visible to street, no excess traffic as only 2
employees parking here. No customers at home occupation.
K. Vehicles: Other than the business owner's personal transportation, there shall be no
vehicles or equipment on the property associated with the home occupation which
would not normally be found at a residence. No signage for the home occupation shall
be allowed on vehicles.
One work truck, behind the fence that the employees drive to the job site.
L. Yards: Yards surrounding the dwelling and accessory buildings shall not be used for
any activities or storage of any materials associated with the home occupation.
Yes
M. Customers: No customers allowed. Children accessing a limited daycare or limited
preschool facility shall not be considered customers.
No customers
N. Utility Demand: The home occupation shall not cause a demand for public utilities in
excess of that necessarily and customarily provided for residential uses.
No extra demand
O. Main Structure: The home occupations shall be conducted, located, and contained
within the primary structure on the property. (Ord. 909, 7-21-2009)
Home office in primary structure
P. Single-Family And Multiple-Family Dwellings: Home occupations listed as permitted
or conditional within this title may be permitted in a single-family or a multiple-family
dwelling, subject to the standards found within this section and section 9-34-060 of this
chapter. Businesses within multiple-family dwellings shall provide an approval letter
from the respective homeowners' association, or management company in the case of
apartments, if the business proposes any employees, customers or business vehicles.
(Ord. 1132, 2-17-2015).
Not an apartment or HOA
Q. Licensure: Any home occupation involving childcare shall comply with all applicable
state and local laws and regulations regarding residential childcare, including, but not
limited to, provisions of the Utah child care licensing act, as set forth in Utah Code
Annotated section 26-39-101 et seq., as amended, and the residential certificate
childcare standards as set forth in the Utah administrative code section R430-50-1 et
seq., as amended. In addition, cottage food production operations are regulated and
inspected by the Utah department of agriculture. Any food related home occupation
under their jurisdiction must comply with these regulations. (Ord. 909, 7-21-2009)
No childcare
