                       CITY COUNCIL AGENDA

                       Tuesday, March 19, 2024, 6:00 PM
                       1020 E. Pioneer Road Draper, Utah
                       Council Chambers

6:00 PM STUDY MEETING

       Joint session with the Draper City Parks, Trails, and Recreation Committee
       to discuss goals and priorities.

       Council/Manager Reports

       Closed Session - By Motion
       The Draper City Council may temporarily recess the regular meeting and
       convene in a closed session to discuss the character, professional competence,
       or physical or mental health of an individual, pending or reasonably imminent
       litigation, or the purchase, exchange, or lease of real property, as provided by
       UCA 52-4-205.

7:00 PM BUSINESS MEETING

1.     Call to Order

2.     Pledge of Allegiance

3.     Oath of Office
       Promotion of Ken Thomas to Captain, Draper City Fire Department

4.     Public Comments
       To be considerate of everyone attending the meeting, public comments will be
       restricted to items that are not listed on this or a future agenda and limited to three
       minutes per person. Comments which cannot be made within these limits should be
       submitted in writing to the City Recorder prior to noon the day before the meeting.
       Comments pertaining to an item on the agenda should not be given at this time but
       should be held until that item is called.

5.     Consent Items

       5.a Approval of March 12, 2024, City Council Meeting Minutes.

6.     Items for Council Consideration

       6.a Public Hearing: Providing Local Consent for a Full Service Restaurant
           License for Douang Investments LLC dba Tuk Tuk's.
           Staff report by Travis DeJong
         6.b Public Hearing: Providing Local Consent for an Off-Premises Beer
             Alcohol License for Demani Enterprise LLC dba Urban Smokes.
             Staff report by Travis DeJong

         6.c Public Hearing: Resolution #24-16
             A Resolution amending the adopted budget of Draper City for Fiscal Year
             2023-2024.

7.       Adjournment

I, the City Recorder of Draper City, certify that copies of this agenda for the Draper City
Council meeting to be held March 19, 2024, were posted at Draper City Hall, Draper City
website www.draperutah.gov, and the Utah Public Notice website at www.utah.gov/pmn.

Date Posted:
                                             Laura Oscarson, MMC, City Recorder
                                             Draper City, State of Utah




In compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act, any individuals needing special
accommodations or services during this meeting shall notify Laura Oscarson, City
Recorder at (801) 576-6502 or laura.oscarson@draperutah.gov, at least 24 hours prior to
the meeting.
