MEMO
To: Planning Commission
From: Tevai Haunga
Date: 2024-02-08
Re: Public Hearing: Automatic Gate Installers Inc. Home Occupation Conditional Use
Permit (Administrative Action)


Comments:


This application is a request for approval of a Home Occupation for approximately 0.46
acres located at approximately 706 E. Osborne Estate Circle. The property is zoned RA2.
The applicants are requesting that a Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit be
approved for a home office with (2) non-family, non-resident employees coming to the
home, and for the storage and use of two (2) work vehicles as part of the business.



The findings for approval as are follows:



  1. Reasonable mitigation measures can be placed on the conditional use to alleviate
     anticipated detrimental effects, including parking.
  2. The proposed use will not, under the circumstances of the particular case, be
     detrimental to the health, safety, or general welfare of persons residing or working
     in the vicinity, or injurious to property or improvements in the vicinity.
  3. The proposed use of the particular location is necessary or desirable to provide a
     service or facility which will contribute to the general well-being of the
     neighborhood and the community.
  4. The proposed use will comply with applicable regulations and conditions specified
     in ordinance and will comply with the intent of the City General Plan.



The findings for denial as are follows:



  1. The existing and anticipated detrimental effects of the business have not been
     sufficiently addressed by the proposal and are not able to be mitigated through the
     imposition of mitigation measures that are reasonable.
  2. The proposed use is not in harmony with the objectives and requirements of the
     city's general plan and will be detrimental to the health, safety, or general welfare of
     persons residing or working in the vicinity, or injurious to property or improvements
     in the vicinity.
  3. Inadequate safeguards were proposed to ensure impacts from vehicular circulation,
     parking, loading space, and screening were resolved.
  4. Additional information and documentation requested by the Planning Commission
     was not provided.
  5. The proposed use of the particular location is not necessary or desirable to provide
     a service or facility which will contribute to the general well-being of the
     neighborhood and the community.
  6. The proposed use does not comply with applicable regulations and conditions
     specified in ordinance or does not comply with the intent of the City General Plan.


ATTACHMENTS:

Revised -Automatic Gate Installers FINAL PEAK.pdf
