MEMO
To: Planning Commission
From: Tevai Haunga
Date: 2024-04-11
Re: Public Hearing: Banasky Rentals Zoning Map Amendment (Legislative Action)


Comments:

This application is a request for approval of a Zoning Map Amendment on approximately
5.27 acres, located on the north side of 13490 S., at approximately 132 W. 13490 S. This
property is currently zoned DC. The applicant is requesting to allow for a commercial
vehicle and equipment rental use or sale, specifically for a heavy equipment dealership.


The findings for a recommendation of approval of the amendment to the Zoning Map are
as follows:



  1. The proposed amendment is harmonious with the overall character of existing
     development in the vicinity of the subject property
  2. The proposed amendment is consistent with the standards of any applicable
     overlay zone.
  3. The proposed amendment will not adversely affect adjacent property.
  4. The facilities and services intended to serve the subject property are adequate
     including, but not limited to, roadways, parks and recreation facilities, police and fire
     protection, schools, storm water drainage systems, water supplies, and wastewater
     and refuse collection.



The findings for a recommendation of denial of the amendment to the Zoning Map are as
follows:



  1. The proposed amendment is not consistent with goals, objectives and policies of
     the city’s general plan.
  2. The proposed amendment is not harmonious with the overall character of existing
     development in the vicinity of the subject property.
  3. The proposed amendment is not consistent with the standards of any applicable
     overlay zone.
  4. The proposed amendment will adversely affect adjacent property.
  5. The facilities and services intended to serve the subject property are not adequate
     including, but not limited to, roadways, parks and recreation facilities, police and fire
     protection, schools, storm water drainage systems, water supplies, and wastewater
     and refuse collection.


ATTACHMENTS:

Banasky Rentals Final.pdf
