                                   Development Review Committee
                                       1020 East Pioneer Road
                                         Draper, UT 84020
                                                   August 9, 2024

To:               Draper City Planning Commission
                  Business Date: August 22, 2024

From:             Development Review Committee

Prepared By: Nick Whittaker, MCMP, Planner II
             Planning Division
             Community Development Department
             801-576-6522, Nick.Whittaker@draperutah.gov

Re:      Painted Pretty Nail Lounge LLC. – Conditional Use Permit Request
         Application No.: 2024-0258-USE
         Applicant:         Nikayla Nelson representing Painted Pretty Nail Lounge LLC.
         Project Location: 11568 S. Sweet Grass Ct.
         Current Zoning: R3 (Single-family residential)
         Acreage:           Approximately 0.37 acres (16,117 ft2)
         Request:           Request for approval of a Conditional Use Permit in the R3 zone
                            regarding a personal care service home-occupation that provides
                            manicures.


BACKGROUND AND SUMMARY

This application is a request for approval of a Conditional Use Permit for approximately
0.37 acres located on the east side of Inauguration Rd at approximately 11568 S. Sweet
Grass Ct. (Exhibits B and C). The property is currently zoned R3. The applicant is requesting
a conditional use permit to operate a personal care service home occupation that provides
manicures.

The property is Lot 133 of the Big Willow Creek Phase 1B Subdivision. The home was
constructed in 2020. The business is located in a basement bedroom.

ANALYSIS

General Plan and Zoning.



Painted Pretty Nails Lounge, LLC Home Occupation                    App. # 2024-0222-USE
Conditional Use Permit Request                           1
 Table 1                    General Plan and Zoning Designations                         Exhibit
 Existing Land Use          Residential Medium Density                                   D
 Current Zoning             R3 (Single-Family Residential, 13,000 ft2 min. lot size)     E
 Proposed Use               Home occupation as a secondary use to SFD
 Adjacent Zoning            R3
    East                    R3
    West                    RA1 (Residential agricultural (40,000 ft2 min. lot size)
    North                   R3
    South                   R4 (Single-Family Residential 10,000 ft2t min. lot size)

The Residential Medium Density land use designation is characterized as follows:




According to Draper City Municipal Code (DCMC) Section 9-8-020, the purpose of the R3
zone is to, “permit medium density residential development without special mitigation
requirements. This zone is intended to provide incentives to foster residential development
with little impact on its surroundings and on municipal services, and to generally preserve
the semirural character called for in the density element of the general plan. ”




Painted Pretty Nails Lounge, LLC Home Occupation                           App. # 2024-0222-USE
Conditional Use Permit Request                      2
Site Plan Layout. The applicant has provided a schematic floor plan which is attached as
Exhibit F. The business workspace is located in a basement bedroom which is 168 square
feet in size. The customers meet the applicant at the front door and the applicant walks
them to the home office where the manicures are performed.

Parking. One off street parking stall shown in the applicant’s photos provided in Exhibit G is
provided for scheduled clientele which is located on the south side of the existing driveway
directly in front of the 3rd car garage. The stall is paved and does not impede resident
access to the two (2) required parking spaces for residential use located in the two-car
garage to the north.

Home Occupation. The DCMC Section 9-34-040 outlines development standards applicable
to all home occupations. Those criteria, along with information specific to the subject
request, are as follows:

         A. Ownership: The home occupation shall be owned and operated by a person who
             resides in the dwelling where the home occupation is located. Such person shall
             be the primary provider of the labor, work, or service provided in the home
             occupation.
             •    The applicant is the business owner and a resident of the subject property.

         B. Business License: A business license for the home occupation shall be obtained
             from and continually maintained with the city pursuant to title 6, chapter 11 of
             this code.
             •    The applicant will be required to maintain an active business license for as
                  long as the business is in operation from the residence.

         C. Employees: Members of the family of the owner who reside in the dwelling may
             be employed in the home occupation. Nonfamily or nonresident employees
             shall be limited to one person.
             •    The applicant has stated that there will be no other employees of Painted
                  Pretty Nail Lounge LLC (Exhibit G).

         D. Inspection: All facilities shall comply with fire, building, plumbing, electrical and
             all other city, county, state and federal codes. Inspections during reasonable
             hours by city officials may occur as necessary to assure compliance with
             regulations.
             •    The applicant is aware of and will comply with required inspections as
                  necessary.

         E. Inventory: No stock in trade, inventory, or other merchandise to exceed two
             hundred fifty (250) square feet shall be kept on the premises. No outside storage
             is allowed.



Painted Pretty Nails Lounge, LLC Home Occupation                        App. # 2024-0222-USE
Conditional Use Permit Request                     3
              •   The applicant keeps all inventory in the168 square foot business space
                  shown on the floor plans found in exhibit F. There is no outdoor storage.

         F. Modification Of Structures Or Yards: There shall be no visible evidence from the
              exterior of a dwelling that it is being used for any other purpose than that of a
              dwelling. No activities shall be carried on outside the dwelling in the yard for the
              benefit of or incidental to the home occupation. No front yard area shall be
              altered to provide parking required for a home occupation.
              •   No modifications to the structure or yard areas are being proposed. All
                  activities are conducted inside the dwelling. The parking area designated for
                  customers already exists.

         G. Nuisance: Tools, items, equipment, or activities conducted within the dwelling
              which is offensive or noxious by reason of the emission of odor, smoke, gas,
              vibration, magnetic interference, or noise shall be prohibited.
              •   The applicant has indicated in their responses found in Exhibit G that the
                  business use of the property will not create any of the above-listed
                  nuisances. The applicant will only provide manicures with non-acrylic
                  finishes.

         H. Secondary Use: The home occupation shall be clearly incidental and secondary
              to the primary use of the dwelling for residential purposes. The home
              occupation shall not disrupt the normal residential character of the
              neighborhood in which the residence is located. Not more than twenty five
              percent (25%) of the dwelling unit shall be used for the home occupation.
              •   The business area in the basement is approximately 168 square feet which is
                  only 16% of the overall square footage of the applicant’s home. The
                  proposed business complies with this standard.

         I.   Signs: All signage in a residential area must comply with chapter 26, "Signs", of
              this title.
              •   The applicant states that there is no business signage on the property and
                  none is proposed at this time (Exhibit G).

         J.   Traffic, Parking, And Access: No home occupation use shall generate pedestrian,
              parking, or vehicular traffic in excess of that customarily associated with the
              zone in which the use is located. All parking shall be provided and maintained on
              site with adequate provision for drop off traffic.
              •   The applicant has indicated that they will have only one client per manicure
                  session. All sessions are scheduled in advance, by appointment only.
              •   Client parking will be located on-site on an existing concrete pad in the front
                  yard located next to the existing driveway.




Painted Pretty Nails Lounge, LLC Home Occupation                        App. # 2024-0222-USE
Conditional Use Permit Request                     4
         K. Vehicles: Other than the business owner's personal transportation, there shall
             be no vehicles or equipment on the property associated with the home
             occupation which would not normally be found at a residence. No signage for
             the home occupation shall be allowed on vehicles.
             •    The applicant’s home occupation does not include the use or storage of a
                  business vehicle.

         L. Yards: Yards surrounding the dwelling and accessory buildings shall not be used
             for any activities or storage of any materials associated with the home
             occupation.
             •    With the exception of the client parking space, no yard areas are utilized for
                  activities related to the business.

         M. Customers: No customers allowed. Children accessing a limited daycare or
            limited preschool facility shall not be considered customers.
            • The applicant is seeking approval to allow customers to come to the home.
                All sessions are by appointment only, and there will be only one customer
                per session. There will be no walk-in customers at any time.

         N. Utility Demand: The home occupation shall not cause a demand for public
             utilities in excess of that necessarily and customarily provided for residential
             uses.
             •    The business use will not create a demand for public utilities above that
                  customarily provided for residential uses.

         O. Main Structure: The home occupations shall be conducted, located, and
            contained within the primary structure on the property.
            • The proposed business use complies with this standard, all services will be
               provided within the designated business space in the home.

         P. Single-Family And Multiple-Family Dwellings: Home occupations listed as
             permitted or conditional within this title may be permitted in a single-family or a
             multiple-family dwelling, subject to the standards found within this section and
             section 9-34-060 of this chapter. Businesses within multiple-family dwellings
             shall provide an approval letter from the respective homeowners' association, or
             management company in the case of apartments, if the business proposes any
             employees, customers or business vehicles.
             •    The business is not located within a multiple-family dwelling.

         Q. Licensure: Any home occupation involving childcare shall comply with all
             applicable state and local laws and regulations regarding residential childcare,
             including, but not limited to, provisions of the Utah child care licensing act, as set
             forth in Utah Code Annotated section 26-39-101 et seq., as amended, and the



Painted Pretty Nails Lounge, LLC Home Occupation                        App. # 2024-0222-USE
Conditional Use Permit Request                     5
             residential certificate childcare standards as set forth in the Utah administrative
             code section R430-50-1 et seq., as amended. In addition, cottage food
             production operations are regulated and inspected by the Utah department of
             agriculture. Any food related home occupation under their jurisdiction must
             comply with these regulations.
             •    The business use does not involve child care or food production.

The business office is located in an extra bedroom and is only used for providing
manicures. Hours of operation are from 4:00 pm to 9:30 pm (See exhibit G). All
appointments are scheduled with the business owner in advance. Appointments are no
more than 2 hours long and with only one customer per scheduled appointment. An off-
street parking stall is provided for use of customers in front of the 3rd car garage. Staff has
no concerns with the business operations as stated by the applicant in their application, or
the responses found in Exhibit G. Staff has included suggested conditions of approval to
help ensure the business operates as proposed and does not create additional negative
impacts.

Criteria For Approval.
The criteria for review and potential approval of a home occupation conditional use permit
request are found in Section 9-5-080(E) of the DCMC. This section depicts the standard of
review for such requests as:

         E. Approval Standards: The standards of this subsection shall apply to the issuance
             of a conditional use permit:
          1. A conditional use permit may be issued for a use to be located within a zone
             where the particular conditional use is allowed by the use regulations of the
             zone.
          2. Reasonable conditions may be imposed as necessary to substantially mitigate
             reasonably anticipated detrimental effects of the proposed use. These
             conditions may include conditions concerning use, construction, character,
             location, landscaping, screening, parking, hours of operation, and other matters
             relating to the purposes and objectives of this section. Such conditions shall be
             expressly set forth in the motion authorizing the conditional use permit.
          3. If the reasonably anticipated detrimental effects of a proposed conditional use
             cannot be substantially mitigated by the imposition of reasonable conditions to
             achieve compliance with applicable standards, the conditional use may be
             denied.
          4. The following factors shall be reviewed and considered in determining whether a
             conditional use permit application should be approved, approved with
             conditions, or denied because reasonable conditions cannot be imposed to
             achieve compliance with applicable standards:
               a. The harmony and compliance of the proposed use with the objectives and
                  requirements of the city's general plan and this title;



Painted Pretty Nails Lounge, LLC Home Occupation                       App. # 2024-0222-USE
Conditional Use Permit Request                     6
              b. The suitability of the specific property for the proposed use;
              c. Whether the proposed use or facility may be injurious to potential or existing
                 development in the vicinity;
              d. The economic impact of the proposed facility or use on the surrounding
                 area;
              e. The aesthetic impact of the proposed facility or use on the surrounding area;
              f. The safeguards proposed or provided to ensure adequate utilities,
                 transportation access, drainage, parking, loading space, lighting, screening,
                 landscaping, open space, fire protection, and pedestrian and vehicular
                 circulation;
              g. The safeguards provided or proposed to prevent noxious or offensive
                 emissions such as noise, glare, dust, pollutants and odor from the proposed
                 facility or use; and
              h. The impact of the proposed facility or use on the health, safety, and welfare
                 of the city, the area, and persons owning or leasing property in the area.
          5. The planning commission may request additional information as may be
             reasonably needed to determine whether the requirements of this subsection E
             can be met.


REVIEWS

Planning Division Review. The Draper City Planning Division has completed their review of
the Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit submission. Comments from this division, if
any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Engineering and Public Works Divisions Review. The Draper City Engineering and Public
Works Divisions have completed their reviews of the Home Occupation Conditional Use
Permit submission. Comments from these divisions, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Building Division Review. The Draper City Building Division has completed their review of
the Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit submission. Comments from this division, if
any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Fire Division Review. The Draper City Fire Marshal has completed his review of the Home
Occupation Conditional Use Permit Submission. Comments from this division, if any, can
be found in Exhibit A.

Noticing. Notice has been properly issued in the manner outlined in the City and State
Codes.



STAFF RECOMMENDATION



Painted Pretty Nails Lounge, LLC Home Occupation                     App. # 2024-0222-USE
Conditional Use Permit Request                     7
Staff recommends that the Planning Commission review the request based on the findings
listed below and the criteria for approval, or denial as listed within the staff report. The
Planning Commission should also review the request, hear from the applicant, and receive
public comment prior to making a decision.

If the Planning Commission decides to approve the request, staff recommends they include
the following conditions of approval:

         1.       That all requirements of the Draper City Engineering, Public Works, Building,
                  Planning, and Fire Divisions shall be satisfied prior to issuance of a business
                  license or its renewal.
         2.       The hours of operation shall be limited to 4:00 pm to 9:30 pm.
         3.       All sessions shall be by appointment only.
         4.       Only one (1) client shall be seen per session.
         5.       Clients shall be directed to park on-site in the designated parking space
                  behind the 3rd car garage and not on the street.
         6.       The applicant shall maintain an active business license for as long as the
                  business is in operation from the residence.



MODEL MOTIONS AND FINDINGS

Sample Motion for Approval – I move that we approve the Home Occupation Conditional
Use Permit, as requested by Nikayla Nelson representing Painted Pretty Nail Lounge,
application 2024-0258-USE, based on the following finding for approval and subject to the
conditions listed in the Staff Report dated August 9, 2024.

Finding for approval:

         1. The proposal complies with the standards for approval found in DCMC Section 9-
            5-080(E) and potential negative impacts are mitigated through the imposition of
            reasonable conditions.

I move that we approve the Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit, as requested by
Nikayla Nelson representing Painted Pretty Nail Lounge, application 2024-0258-USE, based
on the findings for approval and subject to the conditions listed in the Staff Report dated
August 9, 2024 and as modified by the following additional findings or conditions:

         1. List any additional findings…
         2. List any additional conditions…




Painted Pretty Nails Lounge, LLC Home Occupation                        App. # 2024-0222-USE
Conditional Use Permit Request                     8
Sample Motion for Denial – I move that we deny the Home Occupation Conditional Use
Permit, as requested by Nikayla Nelson representing Painted Pretty Nail Lounge,
application 2024-0258-USE, based on the following finding and the criteria for denial as
listed in the Staff Report dated August 9, 2024.

Finding for denial:

         1. The proposal does not comply with all standards for approval found in DCMC
            Section 9-5-080(E) and potential negative impacts are not able to be sufficiently
            mitigated through the imposition of reasonable conditions.




Painted Pretty Nails Lounge, LLC Home Occupation                     App. # 2024-0222-USE
Conditional Use Permit Request                     9
                                     EXHIBIT A
                                DEPARTMENT REVIEWS

REVIEWS ARE NOT MEANT TO BE AN ALL INCLUSIVE LIST OF POSSIBLE COMMENTS OR
CONDITIONS.



Planning Division Review.

       1.     No additional comments.

Engineering and Public Works Divisions Review.

       1.     No additional comments

Building Division Review.

       1.     No additional comments.

Fire Division Review.

       1.     No additional comments.
  EXHIBIT B
VICINITY MAP
 EXHIBIT C
AERIAL MAP
  EXHIBIT D
LAND USE MAP
 EXHIBIT E
ZONING MAP
     EXHIBIT F
SCHEMATIC FLOOR PLAN
                                   EXHIBIT G
                   APPLICANT STATEMENTS AND DOCUMENTATION


Statement of Compliance with Standards

The development standards set forth in this section shall apply to any home occupation
allowed as a permitted use:
A. Ownership: The home occupation shall be owned and operated by a person who
resides in the dwelling where the home occupation is located. Such person shall be the
primary provider of the labor, work, or service provided in the home occupation.
          •   The applicant lives at the subject property
B. Business License: A business license for the home occupation shall be obtained
from and continually maintained with the city pursuant to title 6, chapter 11 of this code.
          •   The applicant will obtain and maintain all necessary licensing through the
              state and city
C. Employees: Members of the family of the owner who reside in the dwelling may be
employed in the home occupation. Nonfamily or nonresident employees shall be limited
to one person.
          •   There are no additional employees
D. Inspection: All facilities shall comply with fire, building, plumbing, electrical and all
other city, county, state and federal codes. Inspections during reasonable hours by city
officials may occur as necessary to assure compliance with regulations.
          •   All required inspections will be completed as required
E. Inventory: No stock in trade, inventory, or other merchandise to exceed two hundred
fifty (250) square feet shall be kept on the premises. No outside storage is allowed.
(Ord. 909, 7-21-2009)
          •   All inventory will be kept in the designated space illustrated in the floor
              plan
F. Modification Of Structures Or Yards: There shall be no visible evidence from the
exterior of a dwelling that it is being used for any other purpose than that of a dwelling.
No activities shall be carried on outside the dwelling in the yard for the benefit of or
incidental to the home occupation. No front yard area shall be altered to provide parking
required for a home occupation. (Ord. 1132, 2-17-2015)
          •   This will be followed
G. Nuisance: Tools, items, equipment, or activities conducted within the dwelling which
is offensive or noxious by reason of the emission of odor, smoke, gas, vibration,
magnetic interference, or noise shall be prohibited.
          •   This will be followed
H. Secondary Use: The home occupation shall be clearly incidental and secondary to
the primary use of the dwelling for residential purposes. The home occupation shall not
disrupt the normal residential character of the neighborhood in which the residence is
located. Not more than twenty five percent (25%) of the dwelling unit shall be used for
the home occupation.
          •   This will be followed.
I. Signs: All signage in a residential area must comply with chapter 26, "Signs", of this
title.
          •   There will be no signs
J. Traffic, Parking, And Access: No home occupation use shall generate pedestrian,
parking, or vehicular traffic in excess of that customarily associated with the zone in
which the use is located. All parking shall be provided and maintained on site with
adequate provision for drop off traffic.
          •   A dedicated off street parking stall will be provided
K. Vehicles: Other than the business owner's personal transportation, there shall be no
vehicles or equipment on the property associated with the home occupation which
would not normally be found at a residence. No signage for the home occupation shall
be allowed on vehicles.
          •   There will be no work vehicle
L. Yards: Yards surrounding the dwelling and accessory buildings shall not be used for
any activities or storage of any materials associated with the home occupation.
          •   This will be followed
M. Customers: No customers allowed. Children accessing a limited daycare or limited
preschool facility shall not be considered customers.
          •   No childcare is being offered
N. Utility Demand: The home occupation shall not cause a demand for public utilities in
excess of that necessarily and customarily provided for residential uses.
          •   This will not require an excess of public utilities
O. Main Structure: The home occupations shall be conducted, located, and contained
within the primary structure on the property. (Ord. 909, 7-21-2009)
          •   The office space is inside of the primary structure
P. Single-Family And Multiple-Family Dwellings: Home occupations listed as permitted
or conditional within this title may be permitted in a single-family or a multiple-family
dwelling, subject to the standards found within this section and section 9-34-060 of this
chapter. Businesses within multiple-family dwellings shall provide an approval letter
from the respective homeowners' association, or management company in the case of
apartments, if the business proposes any employees, customers or business vehicles.
(Ord. 1132, 2-17-2015)
          •   The business is in one dwelling only
Q. Licensure: Any home occupation involving childcare shall comply with all applicable
state and local laws and regulations regarding residential childcare, including, but not
limited to, provisions of the Utah child care licensing act, as set forth in Utah Code
Annotated section 26-39-101 et seq., as amended, and the residential certificate
childcare standards as set forth in the Utah administrative code section R430-50-1 et
seq., as amended. In addition, cottage food production operations are regulated and
inspected by the Utah department of agriculture. Any food related home occupation
under their jurisdiction must comply with these regulations. (Ord. 909, 7-21-2009)
          •   There will be no childcare
Off street parking location
