MEMO
To: Planning Commission
From: Jennifer Jastremsky, AICP
Date: 2024-12-12
Re: Public Hearing: Suncrest Reception Center Zoning Map Amendment (Legislative
Action)


Comments:


This application is a request for approval of a Zoning Map Amendment for approximately
1.28 acres located at approximately 2021 East Village Green Cir. The property is currently
zoned C-2. The applicant is requesting that a Zoning Map Amendment be approved to the
CG zone to allow for a reception center to operate in the existing office building.



This property is part of the Suncrest development area and is tied to the 1999 Draper City
Municipal Code (1999 DCMC). The proposed zone change includes three parcels. The
main parcel was originally developed with an office building and was used as the sales
center for Suncrest. The other two parcels were originally developed as a market and
parking lot and that building is now utilized as the Royal on Ridge restaurant.



Findings for approval:


  1. The proposed amendment is consistent with goals, objectives and policies of the
     city's general plan.
  2. The proposed amendment is harmonious with the overall character of existing
     development in the vicinity of the subject property.
  3. The proposed amendment will not adversely affect adjacent property.
  4. There are adequate facilities and services intended to serve the subject property,
     including, but not limited to, roadways, parks and recreation facilities, police and fire
     protection, schools, stormwater drainage systems, water supplies, and wastewater
     and refuse collection.


Findings for denial:
  1. The proposed amendment is not consistent with the goal, objectives and policies of
     the city’s general plan.
  2. The proposed amendment is not harmonious with the overall character of existing
     development in the vicinity of the subject property.
  3. The proposed amendment will adversely affect adjacent property.


ATTACHMENTS:

Suncrest Recption Center ZMA Staff Report -PC 12-12-24 Combined.pdf
