                                  Development Review Committee
                                       1020 East Pioneer Road
                                         Draper, UT 84020
                                           June 12, 2024

To:               Draper City Planning Commission
                  Business Date: June 27, 2024

From:             Development Review Committee

Prepared By: Todd Taylor, Planner III
             Planning Division
             Community Development Department
             801-576-6510, todd.taylor@draperutah.gov

Re:      City-Initiated South Mountain ADU Update – Zoning Text Amendment Request
         Application No.: 2024-0253-TA
         Applicant:        Draper City
         Project Location: South Mountain (portion)
         Current Zoning: RM (Multiple Dwelling Unit Residential) Zone
         Acreage:          Approximately 17.4 Acres (Approximately 759,887 ft2)
         Request:          Request for approval of a Zoning Text Amendment to Draper City
                           Municipal Code (DCMC) Sections 9-31-020 and 9-31-090 regarding
                           accessory dwelling unit (ADU) standards.



BACKGROUND AND SUMMARY

This application is a request for approval of a Zoning Text Amendment for the purpose of
updating DCMC Sections 9-31-020 and 9-31-090 to allow owners of properties with existing
detached accessory dwelling units (D-ADUs), in a specified portion of the South Mountain
development (Exhibits B-E), to apply for an ADU permit.

The properties subject to the proposed Zoning Text Amendment were developed under the
South Mountain Development Agreement. The Development Agreement was originally
entered into on September 6, 1994, with amendments occurring in 1995, 1999, 2002, 2006,
and 2014. The subject properties are part of the South Mountain Phase 1 Subdivision
Amended, recorded on July 31, 1995, and the South Mountain Subdivision Phase 2A,
recorded on November 1, 1995 (Exhibit F). Lots in the subdivisions range from 5,524 to
10,485 ft2 in size.



City-Initiated South Mountain ADU Update                         App. No. 2024-0253-TA
Zoning Text Amendment Request                    1
ANALYSIS

The original Development Agreement included Design Guidelines that were intended to
guide the physical development of the entire site. The Design Guidelines include the
following:

    •    Occupiable, living space/Granny flats are encouraged above detached garages in the
         Town Center.
    •    Carriage Houses: Garages with dwellings above are encouraged. Apartments above
         garages with separate private walk-ups are encouraged, such that the Town Center
         and Hillside neighborhoods will have carriage houses in 30% of SFD Village houses,
         20% of SFD Houses, and 70% of SFD Patio Homes.

Additionally, at the time the subject properties were developed, the 1990 version of the
DCMC was in effect. The 1990 Code did not discuss ADUs in the same terms as the current
DCMC. A Guest House, defined in Section 9-1-2, of the 1990 DCMC was most similar to today’s
D-ADU as it was a separate structure. An ADU in the 1990 DCMC, defined in Section 9-4-150,
was most similar to today’s internal ADU (I-ADU) as it was within or attached to an owner-
occupied single-family dwelling. Under the 1990 DCMC a property could not contain more
than one (1) ADU, and could not include both a Guest House and an ADU. Most importantly,
in the 1990 DCMC, renting or leasing a Guest House or ADU separately from the primary
dwelling was not permitted.

Using the standards from the Development Agreement and Design Guidelines, the subject
properties were developed as alley-loaded lots, with some of the dwellings originally
constructed with apartments or granny flats above their detached garages. These dwelling
units above the garages have historically been rented out, even though it has never been
legal under the development agreement or the city code to do so.

While DCMC Section 9-1-170 allows all properties within the South Mountain Development
Agreement to be exempt from most of the provisions of Title 9 of the current DCMC,
subsection B requires all properties to comply with the current provisions related to second
kitchens and ADUs. Currently, DCMC Section 9-31-020(B) requires that D-ADUs only be
permitted on lots 12,000 ft2 in size or greater. This minimum lot size is larger than the lot
sizes of the subject properties.

Also, staff notes that, despite claims that many of the subject properties have created
basement apartments in the primary dwellings, I-ADUs, including basement apartments,
have never been permitted in the subject properties.

Staff believes that rental of the dwelling units above the detached garages was intended,
although never specifically approved, and is recommending the proposed Zoning Text
Amendment in order to allow for the originally constructed dwelling units above the



City-Initiated South Mountain ADU Update                           App. No. 2024-0253-TA
Zoning Text Amendment Request                 2
detached garages to be permitted as D-ADU’s and to be rented out if they meet all other D-
ADU standards. This proposed text change would only apply to those existing dwelling units
that were legally created under the development agreement, and no newly constructed D-
ADUs would be permitted in the neighborhood.

An ADU permit also could not be issued for a D-ADU on one of the subject properties if:

    •    The primary dwelling is not occupied by the owner of record as their primary
         residence.
    •    The property contains an illegally created I-ADU, or another D-ADU.
    •    The required one (1) additional paved parking stall for the D-ADU is not provided.

Text Amendments. This report will review the modifications being proposed. The legislative
copy of the changes can be found in Exhibit G of this report. Additions to the text are
indicated in blue, deletions in red, and unchanged text in black.

DCMC Section 9-31-020: Scope: A new subsection C has been added to allow an exception to
the minimum 12,000 ft2 lot size requirement for D-ADUs. The exception would only be for
those subject properties, identified by an exhibit, that were originally constructed with
dwelling units over their detached garages, and which exist as of the date of the adoption of
the Zoning Text Amendment by the City Council.

DCMC Section 9-31-090: Exhibits: A new exhibit has been added to delineate the boundaries
of the subject properties for which the exception will apply.

Criteria For Approval. A Zoning Text Amendment is a matter committed to the legislative
discretion of the City Council and is not controlled by any one standard. However, in making
a recommendation to the City Council, the Planning Commission should consider the
following factors in DCMC Section 9-5-060(E):

         2. Text Amendments:
              a. Whether the proposed amendment is consistent with goals, objectives and policies
                 of the city's general plan;
              b. Whether a proposed amendment furthers the specific purpose statements of the
                 zoning ordinance;
              c. Whether the proposed amendment is appropriate given the context of the request
                 and there is sufficient justification for a modification to the zoning ordinance;
              d. The proposed amendment will not create a conflict with any other section or part
                 of this title or the general plan;
              e. Whether the potential effects of the proposed amendment have been evaluated
                 and determined not to be detrimental to public health, safety, or welfare and
                 represents an overall community benefit; and




City-Initiated South Mountain ADU Update                               App. No. 2024-0253-TA
Zoning Text Amendment Request                    3
               f. The extent to which a proposed text amendment implements best current,
                   professional practices of urban planning, design, and engineering practices



REVIEWS

Planning Division Review. The Draper City Planning Division has completed their review of the
Zoning Text Amendment submission. Comments from this division, if any, can be found in
Exhibit A.

Engineering and Public Works Divisions Review. The Draper City Engineering and Public Works
Divisions have completed their reviews of the Zoning Text Amendment submission.
Comments from these divisions, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Building Division Review. The Draper City Building Division has completed their review of the
Zoning Text Amendment submission. Comments from this division, if any, can be found in
Exhibit A.

Fire Division Review. The Draper City Fire Marshal has completed his review of the Zoning Text
Amendment submission. Comments from this division, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Legal Division Review. The Draper City Attorney has completed his review of the Zoning Text
Amendment submission. Comments from this division, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Noticing. Notice has been properly issued in the manner outlined in the City and State Codes.



STAFF RECOMMENDATION

Staff recommends that the Planning Commission review the request, receive public
comment, and make a positive recommendation to the City Council based on the findings
listed below and the criteria for approval, as listed within the staff report.

The findings for a positive recommendation are as follows:

    1. The proposed amendment is consistent with goals, objectives and policies of the
       City's General Plan;
    2. The proposed amendment is appropriate given the context of the request and there
       is sufficient justification for a modification to the development codes;
    3. The proposed amendment will not create a conflict with any other section or part of
       the development codes or the General Plan;




City-Initiated South Mountain ADU Update                                  App. No. 2024-0253-TA
Zoning Text Amendment Request                      4
    4. The potential effects of the proposed amendment have been evaluated and are
       determined not to be detrimental to public health, safety, or welfare and represents
       an overall community benefit; and
    5. The proposed text amendment implements best current, professional practices of
       urban planning, design, and engineering practices.



MODEL MOTIONS

Sample Motion for Approval – I move that we forward a positive recommendation to the City
Council for the Zoning Text Amendment, as requested by Draper City for the City-Initiated
South Mountain ADU Update, Application No. 2024-0253-TA, based on the findings listed in
the Staff Report dated June 12, 2024.

Sample Motion for Modified Approval – I move that we forward a positive recommendation
to the City Council for the Zoning Text Amendment, as requested by Draper City for the City-
Initiated South Mountain ADU Update, Application No. 2024-0253-TA, based on the findings
listed in the Staff Report dated June 12, 2024, and as modified by the findings and conditions
below:

    1. List any additional findings and conditions…




City-Initiated South Mountain ADU Update                            App. No. 2024-0253-TA
Zoning Text Amendment Request                 5
                                      EXHIBIT A
                                 DEPARTMENT REVIEWS

REVIEWS ARE NOT MEANT TO BE AN ALL INCLUSIVE LIST OF POSSIBLE COMMENTS OR
CONDITIONS.



Planning Division Review.

       1.      No additional comments received.

Engineering and Public Works Divisions Review.

       1.      No additional comments received.

Building Division Review.

       1.      No additional comments received.

Fire Division Review.

       1.      No additional comments received.

Legal Division Review.

       1.      No additional comments received.
  EXHIBIT B
VICINITY MAP
 EXHIBIT C
AERIAL MAP
  EXHIBIT D
LAND USE MAP
 EXHIBIT E
ZONING MAP
    EXHIBIT F
SUBDIVISON PLATS
                                         EXHIBIT G
                                     LEGISLATIVE DRAFT

9-31-020: SCOPE:

…

B. D-ADUs shall be a permitted use in all primary residential zoning districts, master planned
community zones (MPC), and residential special districts (RSD) on individual lots or parcels twelve-
thousand square feet (12,000 ft²) or greater in size that contain no more than one single-family
dwelling, except as described in 9-31-020(C) below.

C. Properties identified in Exhibit B of Section 9-31-090 that were originally constructed with
carriage houses or apartments above their detached garages, as described in the South Mountain
Design Guidelines, and those carriage houses or apartments exist as of DATE, shall be exempt
from the minimum lot size requirements of Section 9-31-020(B) above.

…

9-31-090: EXHIBITS:

…

Exhibit B
