                               Development Review Committee
                                    1020 East Pioneer Road
                                      Draper, UT 84020
                                          August 9, 2024

To:                 Draper City Planning Commission
                    Business Date: August 22, 2024

From:               Development Review Committee

Prepared By: Nick Whittaker, MCMP, Planner II
             Planning Division
             Community Development Department
             801-576-6522, Nick.Whittaker@draperutah.gov

Re:      Powers I-ADU– Deviation Request
         Application No.: 2024-0287-VAR
         Applicant:        Gary Powers representing The Powers Revocable Trust
         Project Location: 14653 S Pristine View Cv.
         Current Zoning: R3 (Single-family residential) Zone
         Acreage:          Approximately 0.97 Acres (42,253 ft2)
         Request:          Request for approval of a Deviation from the prohibition against
                           creation of an Internal Accessory Dwelling (I-ADU) within the
                           Primary Dwelling on the subject property.



BACKGROUND AND SUMMARY

This application is a request for approval of a Deviation from the prohibition against
creation of an I-ADU within the Primary Dwelling on the subject property for approximately
0.97 acres located north of the Pristine View Cove cul-de-sac, at approximately 14653 S
Pristine View Cv. and is located in the R3 zone (Exhibit B and C).

The property is lot 25 of the Draper Heights Subdivision and the home was built in 2006.
The property is located within a mapped area of the City where I-ADU’s are prohibited. The
applicant has not yet submitted an application for the creation of an I-ADU within the
primary structure on the subject property as the applicant is seeking approval of this
Deviation request prior to submitting that application.




Powers I-ADU                                                        App. # 2024-0287-VAR
Deviation Request                               1
ANALYSIS

General Plan and Zoning.
 Table 1              General Plan and Zoning Designations                          Exhibit
 Existing Land Use    Residential Medium Density                                    Exhibit D
 Current Zoning       R3 (Single-Family Residential)                                Exhibit E
 Adjacent Zoning
     East             R3
     West             R3
     North            R3
     South            R3

The Residential Medium Density land use designation is characterized as follows:




According to Draper City Municipal Code (DCMC) Section 9-8-020 the purpose of the R3
zone is to “permit medium density residential development without special mitigation
requirements. This zone is intended to provide incentives to foster residential development with
little impact on its surroundings and on municipal services, and to generally preserve the
semirural character called for in the density element of the general plan.”



Powers I-ADU                                                           App. # 2024-0287-VAR
Deviation Request                               2
Site Plan Layout. A site plan, elevation photo, and floor plans for the proposed creation of
the I-ADU are provided as Exhibits F, G and H. The entrance to the I-ADU would be located
in the rear of the existing home as a walk-out basement. There was no indication on the
floor plans as to how the unit would be separated from the primary dwelling, however that
detail will be required to be provided with the application for creation of an I-ADU at the
property. There will be no changes to the exterior required. The property is approximately
42,253 square feet in size which surpasses the 20,000 square feet minimum needed to
satisfy the size requirement for deviation as described in section 9-31-055(A) of the DCMC.

Parking. The proposed site plan (See Exhibit F) shows three (3) parking stalls designated for
use by the I-ADU. One stall is an existing attached garage that connects to the I-ADU. The
two additional parking stalls that will also be designated for use by the occupants of the I-
ADU are located in the rear yard along the rear property line and are accessed by an
existing driveway as shown in the site plan. Approval of the deviation request requires that
a minimum of two (2) parking stalls be designated for use by the occupants of the I-ADU.

Architecture. The elevation photos (Exhibit G) will comply with the intent of DCMC Section 9-
31-045(B)(5) that the exterior appearance of the primary dwelling not be altered in a
manner that would cause it to appear as other than a single-family dwelling.

Criteria For Approval.
The criteria for review and potential approval of a Deviation request for an I-ADU is found
in Section 9-31-055 of the DCMC. This section depicts the standard of review for such
requests as:
    A. Deviation Authorized: A deviation from strict compliance with the prohibition of I-ADUs
        on properties located within the areas identified on the I-ADU map in Exhibit A of this
        chapter may be approved by the planning commission if all of the following criteria are
        met and the planning commission finds that:
        1. The lot or parcel on which the primary dwelling is located is at least twenty-thousand
            square feet (20,000 ft²);
        2. No D-ADU exists on the property;
        3. The proposed I-ADU meets all of the requirements of sections 9-31-030 and 9-31-045,
            including other applicable requirements of this chapter; and
        4. At least two (2) parking stalls meeting the requirements of 9-31-045(B)(2) are provided
            for use by occupants of the I-ADU.

The proposed site plan, proposed floor plans, and elevation photo provided with this
Deviation application have been reviewed by staff and have been determined to be in
compliance with the listed criteria necessary for approval of a deviation from the
prohibition against I-ADUs for properties identified on the City map.




Powers I-ADU                                                            App. # 2024-0287-VAR
Deviation Request                               3
REVIEWS

Planning Division Review. The Draper City Planning Division has completed their review of
the Deviation application submission. Comments from this division, if any, can be found in
Exhibit A.

Noticing. Notice has been properly issued in the manner outlined in the City and State
Codes.



STAFF RECOMMENDATION

Staff finds that the application complies with the DCMC and recommends that the Planning
Commission review the request, and approve the application based on the findings listed
below and the criteria for approval, as listed within the staff report.



MODEL MOTIONS

Sample Motion for Approval – I move that we approve the Deviation request to allow for
the creation of an I-ADU, as requested by Gary Powers for application 2024-0287-VAR
based on the following findings and the criteria for approval as listed in the Staff Report
dated August 9, 2024

Findings for Approval:

    1. The lot or parcel on which the primary dwelling is located is at least twenty-
       thousand square feet (20,000 ft²);
    2. No D-ADU exists on the property;
    3. The proposed I-ADU meets all of the requirements of sections 9-31-030 and 9-31-
       045, including other applicable requirements of this chapter; and
    4. At least two (2) parking stalls meeting the requirements of 9-31-045(B)(2) are
       provided for use by occupants of the I-ADU.




Powers I-ADU                                                         App. # 2024-0287-VAR
Deviation Request                             4
                                     EXHIBIT A
                                DEPARTMENT REVIEWS

REVIEWS ARE NOT MEANT TO BE AN ALL-INCLUSIVE LIST OF POSSIBLE COMMENTS OR
CONDITIONS.



Planning Division Review.

       1.     The property is over the 20,000 ft2 threshold, does not already contain an I-
              ADU, or a D-ADU and can provide the 2 required off street parking stalls
              required for approval of a deviation from the prohibition against I-ADUs. The
              proposed I-ADU will comply with all other applicable requirements of DCMC
              Sections 9-31-030 and 9-31-045.
       2.     Applicant will need to submit a separate application for approval of the I-
              ADU.
  EXHIBIT B
VICINITY MAP
EXHIBIT C
ARIEL MAP
  EXHIBIT D
LAND USE MAP
 EXHIBIT E
ZONING MAP
EXHIBIT F
SITE PLAN
    EXHIBIT G
ELEVATION PHOTO
  EXHIBIT H
FLOOR PLANS
        EXHIBIT I
APPLICANT REQUEST LETTER
