MEMO
To: City Council
From: Todd Taylor
Date: 2024-11-12
Re: Public Hearing: Ordinance #1626


Comments:

This application is a request for approval of a Zoning Text Amendment to modify the ADU
standards in Chapter 9-31 of the DCMC to allow for owner occupancy of either the single-
family dwelling or the ADU, and to reduce the minimum lot size required for approval of a
deviation from the geographical prohibitions for Internal Accessory Dwelling Units (I-
ADUs).

The Planning Commission reviewed this request at their October 10, 2024 meeting and
forwarded a positive recommendation on a 5-0 vote.

Findings for Approval:
  1. The proposed amendment is consistent with goals, objectives and policies of the
     City's General Plan;
  2. The proposed amendment is appropriate given the context of the request and there
     is sufficient justification for a modification to the development codes;
  3. The proposed amendment will not create a conflict with any other section or part of
     the development codes or the General Plan;
  4. The potential effects of the proposed amendment have been evaluated and are
     determined not to be detrimental to public health, safety, or welfare and represents
     an overall community benefit; and
  5. The proposed text amendment implements best current, professional practices of
     urban planning, design, and engineering practices.

Findings for Denial:
  1. The proposed amendment is not consistent with goals, objectives and policies of
     the City's General Plan;
  2. The proposed amendment is not appropriate given the context of the request and
     there is not sufficient justification for a modification to the development codes;
  3. The proposed amendment could create a conflict with another section or part of the
     development codes or the General Plan; and
  4. The potential effects of the proposed amendment have been determined to be
     detrimental to public health, safety, or welfare or do not represent an overall
     community benefit.
ATTACHMENTS:

Ordinance No 1626.pdf
ATTACHMENTS:

2024 ADU Zoning TA Staff Report_Finalized.pdf
