MINUTES OF THE DRAPER CITY COUNCIL MEETING HELD ON TUESDAY, JANUARY 9,
2024, IN THE DRAPER CITY COUNCIL CHAMBERS, 1020 EAST PIONEER ROAD, DRAPER,
UTAH

PRESENT:        Mayor Troy K. Walker, and Councilmembers Mike Green (joined by Zoom
                during Business Session), Bryn Heather Johnson, Tasha Lowery, Fred Lowry,
                and Cal Roberts

PLANNING COMMISSIONERS: Gary Ogden, Lisa Fowler, Laura Fidler, Susan Nixon, Chair
           Andrew Adams, Mary Squire, Shivam Shah, and Kendra Shirey

STAFF:          David Dobbins, City Manager; Mike Barker, City Attorney; Kellie Challburg,
                Chief of Staff; Scott Cooley, City Engineer; Rich Ferguson, Chief of Police;
                Jennifer Jastremsky, Community Development Director; Bret Millburn,
                Assistant City Manager; Malena Murray, Human Resources Director; Rhett
                Ogden, Parks and Recreation Director; Laura Oscarson, City Recorder; Clint
                Smith, Fire Chief; Jake Sorensen, IT; and John Vuyk, Finance Director;

_____________________________________________________________________________________

Study Session
      Joint session with the Draper City Planning Commission and consultants
      regarding Zoning and Subdivision Code updates
      Community Development Director Jennifer Jastremsky introduced consultants Jackie
      Berg and Mikaela Uddfork with the consulting company Houseal Lavigne, who would
      be helping with the 18-month Zoning and Subdivision Code update process. Ms.
      Jastremsky provided an overview of the Zoning and Subdivision Code, last
      comprehensively updated in 2001. Ms. Berg explained the seven-step scope of work
      planned for the update and answered questions from the Planning Commission and
      City Council.

         The Planning Commission and City Council provided feedback regarding architectural
         design types and materials, responding to specific examples shown. Mayor Walker
         encouraged the Council and Commissioners to pay attention to the upcoming
         Legislative Session and expressed a hope that cities would retain zoning and land use
         authority.

         Council/Manager Reports
         Councilmember F. Lowry suggested the timing of a traffic light on 1300 East needed
         to be adjusted.

Business Session



           Draper City Council DRAFT Meeting Minutes – January 9, 2024
1.    Call to Order by Mayor Troy K. Walker

2.    Flag Ceremony and Pledge of Allegiance led by Cub Scout Pack #4444

3.    Public Comment
      None

4.    Consent Items
4.a   December 6, 2023, City Council Meeting Minutes
4.b   Resolution #24-01, a Resolution of Draper City Council approving an
      agreement between the Utah Department of Public Safety and local law
      enforcement agencies in Salt Lake County regarding the Utah Law
      Enforcement Information Sharing Analytic Program

      Councilmember T. Lowery moved to approve                    the   Consent     Items.
      Councilmember Roberts seconded the motion.

      A roll call vote was taken. The motion passed unanimously.
                                     Yes       No       Absent
      Councilmember Green            X
      Councilmember Johnson          X
      Councilmember T. Lowery        X
      Councilmember F. Lowry         X
      Councilmember Roberts          X

5.    Items for Council Consideration
5.a   Public Hearing: Ordinance #1595, an Ordinance amending the Official Zoning
      Map of Draper City for approximately 10.87 acres of property from A5
      (Agricultural) to RA2 (Residential Agricultural) located at approximately 12695
      South 1700 East within Draper City, otherwise known as the City Initiated
      12695 South 1700 East Zoning Map Amendment
      Community Development Director Jennifer Jastremsky explained the proposed
      rezone of current agricultural horse property to RA2 for half-acre lots and said the
      Planning Commission forwarded a unanimous positive recommendation. City
      Manager David Dobbins said the property was currently owned by the Canyon
      School District, and said the School District had indicated the intention to sell the
      property as soon as possible, with a purchase opportunity offered to the City. Mr.
      Dobbins mentioned the possibility of the City purchasing the property and using a
      portion for a new cemetery.

      Mayor Walker opened a public hearing.



                                                                                 2|Page
LaVar Christensen, a Draper resident, said he had lived next to the subject property
for 30 years. He said the three minutes allowed during the public hearing was
insufficient to address the scope of questions and concerns for the proposed zone
change. Mr. Christensen asked for full disclosure regarding any existing purchase
contract, commented on the different zoning that would be required for cemetery
use, and expressed the opinion that property for cemetery use would need to be
beautifully, majestically, and serenely landscaped. Mr. Christensen suggested the
Council table the issue to allow for more information and dialogue before a
decision.

Clark Morley, a Draper resident, said his family raised two horses on the subject
property, and said the property was part of what attracted people to the area. He
expressed the opinion that open space was an essential part of a community. Mr.
Morley said he was aware of the current housing shortage and did not think
creating a bunch of half-acre multi-million-dollar homes would help the housing
crisis. Mr. Morley said he thought using a portion of the land for a cemetery, and
the remainder for horse property was a good idea.

Steven Sugiyama, a Draper resident, said he lived close to the subject property. He
said it was his understanding that the property would have to be used for public
use space if the City purchased using the first right of refusal. He said he did not
know that a cemetery would qualify as a public use space. Mr. Sugiyama suggested
the land should be used for a public park, maybe similar to Wheeler Farm, with
master gardening and horse property.

Mayor Walker closed the public hearing.

Councilmember Roberts commented on the current threat to local zoning and land
use authority from the State level. He said if the City did not act prudently, the
subject property could end up being developed with something denser and less
desirable. Councilmember Roberts said land was a limited resource, and expressed
the opinion that the City should acquire land when it could be done strategically
and efficiently with taxpayer money. He suggested the potential purchase could be
financed in a way that might be able to come out net neutral for taxpayers.
Councilmember Roberts stated that with the proposed rezone, residents in the
area would know the City did not plan to develop with higher density.

Councilmember Green expressed support for the proposed rezoning and the
proposed cemetery use. Councilmember T. Lowery said she had heard
continuously about the need for additional cemetery space since joining the City
Council. She expressed support for the rezoning as a way for residents to know
what to expect in terms of maximum density.


                                                                          3|Page
      Councilmember F. Lowry said he echoed previous Council comments, and said his
      choice, if he had the ability, would be to purchase and maintain all ten acres as
      horse property. However, he pointed out that such a decision would have a greater
      cost to the taxpayers. Councilmember F. Lowry said his intention, if the City
      purchased the property, would be to ensure half of the property would be kept
      open to the public for a park or cemetery. He said he believed rezoning for half-
      acre lots while the City Council had the ability was a wise move.

      City Manager David Dobbins explained that the State Statute regarding the use of
      property sold by a school district to a city was fairly broad. He said he believed the
      use of the property for a cemetery would fit within the Statute. Councilmember T.
      Lowery spoke of some of the current needs of Corner School District in the
      community for which proceeds from the sale might be used. Councilmember
      Johnson expressed support for the proposed rezoning. Mr. Dobbins commented
      that if the City owned the property, the City Council could dictate the terms of future
      sale and development.

      Councilmember T. Lowery moved to approve                        Ordinance      #1595.
      Councilmember Roberts seconded the motion.

      A roll call vote was taken. The motion passed unanimously.
                                    Yes       No       Absent
      Councilmember Green           X
      Councilmember Johnson         X
      Councilmember T. Lowery X
      Councilmember F. Lowry        X
      Councilmember Roberts         X

5.b   Public Hearing: Ordinance #1598, an Ordinance approving an adjustment to
      the common boundary between Draper City and Bluffdale City
      Assistant City Manager Bret Millburn said the proposed ordinance was the second
      step in adjusting the boundary between Draper and Bluffdale to put a planned
      development under one jurisdiction. Mr. Millburn answered questions from the
      Council.

      Mayor Walker opened a public hearing, and closed the public hearing seeing
      no one come forward.

      Councilmember F. Lowry moved to approve Ordinance #1598. Councilmember
      T. Lowery seconded the motion.

      A roll call vote was taken. The motion passed unanimously.

                                                                                  4|Page
                                  Yes       No        Absent
      Councilmember Green         X
      Councilmember Johnson       X
      Councilmember T. Lowery     X
      Councilmember F. Lowry      X
      Councilmember Roberts       X

5.c   Public Hearing: Ordinances #1599 and #1600, an Ordinance amending the
      Official Zoning Map and Land Use Map of Draper City for approximately 0.889
      acres to remove the property from both the Zoning Map and the Land Use
      Map. The property is located at approximately 600 West 14600 South and is
      parcel number 33-12-100-017 within Draper City, otherwise known as the City
      Initiated Zoning and Land Use Map Amendment for Bluffdale
      Community Development Director Jennifer Jastremsky explained the proposed
      ordinances would remove the property from the City boundary with the previous
      action from the City Zoning Map and Land Use Map. She said the Planning
      Commission forwarded a positive recommendation with a 3-0 vote.

      The Mayor opened a public hearing and closed the public hearing seeing no
      one come forward.

      Councilmember T. Lowery moved to approve Ordinance #1599 and Ordinance
      #1600. Councilmember Johnson seconded the motion.

      A roll call vote was taken. The motion passed unanimously.
                                    Yes       No       Absent
      Councilmember Green           X
      Councilmember Johnson         X
      Councilmember T. Lowery X
      Councilmember F. Lowry        X
      Councilmember Roberts         X

5.d   Action Item: Resolution #24-03, A Resolution amending the Consolidated Fee
      Schedule of Draper City
      Finance Director John Vuyk explained proposed amendments to cemetery fees and
      parks and recreation fees.

      Councilmember    Johnson   moved to approve              Resolution    #24-03.
      Councilmember F. Lowry seconded the motion.

      A roll call vote was taken. The motion passed unanimously.
                                      Yes   No    Absent
      Councilmember Green             X
      Councilmember Johnson           X

                                                                            5|Page
     Councilmember T. Lowery       X
     Councilmember F. Lowry        X
     Councilmember Roberts         X

6.   Adjournment
     Councilmember Green moved to adjourn the meeting. Councilmember
     Roberts seconded the motion, which passed by unanimous vote (5-0).

     The meeting adjourned at 7:43 pm.




                                                               6|Page
