                       CITY COUNCIL AGENDA

                       Tuesday, August 6, 2024, 6:30 PM
                       Council Chambers

6:30 PM STUDY MEETING

       Council/Manager Reports

7:00 PM BUSINESS MEETING

1.     Call to Order

2.     Pledge of Allegiance

3.     Public Comments
       To be considerate of everyone attending the meeting, public comments will be
       restricted to items that are not listed on this or a future agenda and limited to three
       minutes per person. Comments which cannot be made within these limits should be
       submitted in writing to the City Recorder prior to noon the day before the meeting.
       Comments pertaining to an item on the agenda should not be given at this time but
       should be held until that item is called.

4.     Consent Items

       4.a Approval of July 16, 2024 City Council Meeting Minutes.

5.     Items for Council Consideration

       5.a Action Item: Resolution #24-37
           A Resolution of the Draper City Council approving the request proposing the
           creation of a new school district and authorizing the City Recorder to notify
           the Utah County Commission and the Utah County Clerk. Staff report by
           Mike Barker.

       5.b Public Hearing: Providing Local Consent for a Single Event Permit for
           The Christmas Box International.
           Staff report by Travis DeJong

       5.c Public Hearing: Providing Local Consent for a Single Event Permit for
           Utah Foster Care Foundation.
           Staff report by Travis DeJong

       5.d Public Hearing: Providing Local Consent for a Full-Service Restaurant
           License for Maha's Kitchen LLC dba Aroma Fine Indian Cuisine.
           Staff Report by Travis DeJong
         5.e Public Hearing: Ordinance #1617
             An Ordinance of Draper City amending the text of the Land Use and
             Development Code of the Draper City Municipal Code relating to the
             minimum lot size for detached accessory dwelling units in a specified
             portion of the South Mountain Development. Staff report by Todd Taylor.

         5.f Public Hearing: Ordinance #1618
             An Ordinance amending the official Zoning Map of Draper City for
             approximately 1.57 acres of property from RA1 (Residential Agricultural,
             40,000 square foot lot minimum size) to RA2 (Residential Agricultural, 20,000
             square foot lot minimum size) for the property located at approximately
             11511 South 700 West, otherwise known as the Danduboyina Zoning Map
             Amendment. Staff report by Maryann Pickering.

6.       Adjournment

I, the City Recorder of Draper City, certify that copies of this agenda for the Draper City
Council meeting to be held August 6, 2024, were posted at Draper City Hall, Draper City
website www.draperutah.gov, and the Utah Public Notice website at www.utah.gov/pmn.

Date Posted:
                                             Laura Oscarson, MMC, City Recorder
                                             Draper City, State of Utah




In compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act, any individuals needing special
accommodations or services during this meeting shall notify Laura Oscarson, City
Recorder at (801) 576-6502 or laura.oscarson@draperutah.gov, at least 24 hours prior to
the meeting.
