MEMO
To: City Council
From: Travis DeJong
Date: 2024-10-01
Re: Public Hearing: Providing Local Consent for a Limited-Service Restaurant License for
Ancient Recipe LLC dba Nawab's Indian Restaurant.


Comments:

Ancient Recipe LLC dba Nawab's Indian Restaurant located at 153 W 12300 S Suite 7 is
seeking Local Consent for a Limited-Service Restaurant license. They have provided the
following:

- Liquor liability insurance.
- Bond payable to the Department of Alcoholic Beverage Services.
- Floor map showing where alcohol is to be served, stored, and consumed.
- Sales tax license.
- A background check conducted by the Bureau of Criminal Identification.

Ancient Recipe LLC dba Nawab's Indian Restaurant currently holds a Draper City
business license for their restaurant operations, numbered CBL-7573-2023, expiring
November 30, 2024.

The findings for Local Consent approval are as follows:

DCMC 6-4-040 requires that a limited-service restaurant be at least three hundred feet
(300') away from any community location (schools, churches, public libraries, public
playgrounds, and public parks) measured by the shortest pedestrian route taken from
the nearest patron entrance of the restaurant to the property boundary of the
community location.

Ancient Recipe LLC dba Nawab's Indian Restaurant has met this requirement.

DCMC 6-4-040 requires that a limited-service restaurant be at least two hundred feet
(200') away from any community location (schools, churches, public libraries, public
playgrounds, and public parks) measured in a straight line from the nearest patron
entrance of the restaurant to the property boundary of the community location.

Ancient Recipe LLC dba Nawab's Indian Restaurant has met this requirement.
DCMC 6-4-050 places no restrictions on the number of limited-service restaurant licenses
that can be granted by the City.


ATTACHMENTS:

Bond.pdf
ATTACHMENTS:

Floor Plan.jpg
ATTACHMENTS:

Liquor Liability Insurance.pdf
ATTACHMENTS:

Sales Tax License.pdf
ATTACHMENTS:

Ancient Recipe LLC.pptx
ATTACHMENTS:

Commercial Business License.pdf
