                                 Development Review Committee
                                     1020 East Pioneer Road
                                       Draper, UT 84020
                                        October 11, 2024

To:               Draper City Planning Commission
                  Business Date: October 24, 2024

From:             Development Review Committee

Prepared By: Nick Whittaker, MCMP, Planner II
             Planning Division
             Community Development Department
             801-576-6522, Nick.Whittaker@draperutah.gov


Re:      Joco Jewelry – Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit Request
         Application No.: 2024-0338-USE
         Applicant:        Joely Larson, representing Eric Larson & Alyson Larson
         Project Location: 12983 S. Fox Crossing Ln.
         Current Zoning: RA2 (Residential Agricultural)
         Acreage:          Approximately 0.47 acres (20,473 ft2)
         Request:          Request for approval of a Conditional Use Permit to operate a
                           cottage business home occupation that creates custom jewelry.


BACKGROUND AND SUMMARY

This application is a request for approval of a Conditional Use Permit to operate a cottage
business home occupation on approximately 0.47 acres located on the east side of Fox
Crossing Ln. at approximately 12983 S. Fox Crossing Ln. (Exhibits B and C). The property is
currently zoned RA2. The home occupation creates custom jewelry.

The property is Lot 9 of the Fox Crossing of Draper Phase 1 subdivision. The single-family
dwelling on the property was built in 2003. The business is operated from a designated
workspace located in the kitchen of the home (Exhibits G, H & I).

ANALYSIS

General Plan and Zoning.



Joco Jewelry Home Occupation                                        App. # 2024-0338-USE
Conditional Use Permit Request                 1
 Table 1                    General Plan and Zoning Designations                 Exhibit
 Existing Land Use          Residential Low-Medium Density                       Exhibit D
 Current Zoning             RA2                                                  Exhibit E
 Existing Use               Single-Family Residential
 Adjacent Zoning
    East                    RA2
    West                    RA2
    North                   RA2
    South                   RA2

The Residential Medium Density land use designation is characterized as follows:




According to Draper City Municipal Code (DCMC) Section 9-8-020, the purpose of the R3
zone is to, “permit medium density residential development without special mitigation
requirements. This zone is intended to provide incentives to foster residential development
with little impact on its surroundings and on municipal services, and to generally preserve
the semirural character called for in the density element of the general plan. ”

Site Plan Layout. The applicant has provided a site plan which shows the entire subject
property which is located on a corner lot and has a detached single-family dwelling as the



Joco Jewelry Home Occupation                                        App. # 2024-0338-USE
Conditional Use Permit Request                   2
primary structure. The property also has one (1) detached structure located in the rear
yard. The property faces Fox Crossing Ln.

The applicant has provided a schematic floor plan which is attached as Exhibit G. The
business workspace is located on the main floor in a designated portion of the kitchen
which is approximately 80 ft² in size.

Home Occupation. The DCMC Section 9-34-040 outlines development standards applicable
to all home occupations. Those criteria, along with information specific to the subject
request, are as follows:

         A. Ownership: The home occupation shall be owned and operated by a person who
             resides in the dwelling where the home occupation is located. Such person shall
             be the primary provider of the labor, work, or service provided in the home
             occupation.
             •    The applicant is the owner of the business and resides in the dwelling
                  (Exhibit H).
             •    The applicant is the only employee of the business and the primary provider
                  of labor for the home occupation (Exhibit H).

         B. Business License: A business license for the home occupation shall be obtained
             from and continually maintained with the city pursuant to title 6, chapter 11 of
             this code.
             •    The applicant will be required to maintain an active business license for as
                  long as the business is in operation from the residence.

         C. Employees: Members of the family of the owner who reside in the dwelling may
             be employed in the home occupation. Nonfamily or nonresident employees
             shall be limited to one person.
             •    The applicant is the only employee of the business and has stated that there
                  are no other employees (Exhibit H).

         D. Inspection: All facilities shall comply with fire, building, plumbing, electrical and
             all other city, county, state and federal codes. Inspections during reasonable
             hours by city officials may occur as necessary to assure compliance with
             regulations.
             •    The applicant is aware of such inspections and will comply with required
                  inspections as necessary (Exhibit H).
             •    Applicable inspections are completed as part of the business licensing
                  process.




Joco Jewelry Home Occupation                                              App. # 2024-0338-USE
Conditional Use Permit Request                   3
         E. Inventory: No stock in trade, inventory, or other merchandise to exceed two
              hundred fifty (250) square feet shall be kept on the premises. No outside storage
              is allowed.
              •   The applicant keeps all storage, inventory and other merchandise within the
                  80 ft² workspace area within the kitchen. The applicant does not use any
                  outside storage (Exhibit H).
         F. Modification Of Structures Or Yards: There shall be no visible evidence from the
              exterior of a dwelling that it is being used for any other purpose than that of a
              dwelling. No activities shall be carried on outside the dwelling in the yard for the
              benefit of or incidental to the home occupation. No front yard area shall be
              altered to provide parking required for a home occupation.
              •   No modifications to the structure or yard areas are being proposed. All
                  activities are conducted inside the dwelling. All orders are mailed to
                  customers or sold at trade shows and events not located at the subject
                  property. No additional parking is needed for the home occupation as there
                  are no in-person customers, additional employees, or business vehicles
                  (Exhibit H).

         G. Nuisance: Tools, items, equipment, or activities conducted within the dwelling
              which is offensive or noxious by reason of the emission of odor, smoke, gas,
              vibration, magnetic interference, or noise shall be prohibited.
              •   The applicant has indicated that the business use of the property will not
                  create any of the above-listed nuisances (Exhibit H).

         H. Secondary Use: The home occupation shall be clearly incidental and secondary
              to the primary use of the dwelling for residential purposes. The home
              occupation shall not disrupt the normal residential character of the
              neighborhood in which the residence is located. Not more than twenty five
              percent (25%) of the dwelling unit shall be used for the home occupation.
              •   The designated work area in the kitchen totals approximately 80 ft². The
                  home is approximately 5487 ft² in size. The business use occupies
                  approximately 2% of the overall home area. The proposed business complies
                  with this standard.

         I.   Signs: All signage in a residential area must comply with chapter 26, "Signs", of
              this title.
              •   The applicant has indicated to staff that there is no business signage on the
                  property and none is proposed at this time (Exhibit H).

         J.   Traffic, Parking, And Access: No home occupation use shall generate pedestrian,
              parking, or vehicular traffic in excess of that customarily associated with the
              zone in which the use is located. All parking shall be provided and maintained on
              site with adequate provision for drop off traffic.



Joco Jewelry Home Occupation                                              App. # 2024-0338-USE
Conditional Use Permit Request                    4
             •    There will be no customers coming to the home at any time and no
                  additional traffic within the neighborhood resulting from this home
                  occupation (Exhibit H).

         K. Vehicles: Other than the business owner's personal transportation, there shall
             be no vehicles or equipment on the property associated with the home
             occupation which would not normally be found at a residence. No signage for
             the home occupation shall be allowed on vehicles.
             •    The applicant’s home occupation does not include the use of a business
                  vehicle (Exhibit H).

         L. Yards: Yards surrounding the dwelling and accessory buildings shall not be used
             for any activities or storage of any materials associated with the home
             occupation.
             •    The operation of the home occupation will not include the use of yards
                  surrounding the dwelling or any accessory buildings on the property (Exhibit
                  H).

         M. Customers: No customers allowed. Children accessing a limited daycare or
            limited preschool facility shall not be considered customers.
            • There will be no customers coming to the home. Sales are conducted online,
                or directly at off-site festivals or events. The business is not a daycare or
                preschool (Exhibit H).

         N. Utility Demand: The home occupation shall not cause a demand for public
             utilities in excess of that necessarily and customarily provided for residential
             uses.
             •    The business use will not create an increased demand for public utilities
                  above that customarily provided for residential uses.

         O. Main Structure: The home occupations shall be conducted, located, and
            contained within the primary structure on the property.
            • All business use and activities are conducted within the home in compliance
               with this standard (Exhibit H).

         P. Single-Family And Multiple-Family Dwellings: Home occupations listed as
             permitted or conditional within this title may be permitted in a single-family or a
             multiple-family dwelling, subject to the standards found within this section and
             section 9-34-060 of this chapter. Businesses within multiple-family dwellings
             shall provide an approval letter from the respective homeowners' association, or
             management company in the case of apartments, if the business proposes any
             employees, customers or business vehicles.




Joco Jewelry Home Occupation                                            App. # 2024-0338-USE
Conditional Use Permit Request                   5
             •    The cottage business use is listed in Chapter 34 is an allowable Conditional
                  Use, and the dwelling unit type is a single-family dwelling.

         Q. Licensure: Any home occupation involving childcare shall comply with all
             applicable state and local laws and regulations regarding residential childcare,
             including, but not limited to, provisions of the Utah child care licensing act, as set
             forth in Utah Code Annotated section 26-39-101 et seq., as amended, and the
             residential certificate childcare standards as set forth in the Utah administrative
             code section R430-50-1 et seq., as amended. In addition, cottage food
             production operations are regulated and inspected by the Utah department of
             agriculture. Any food related home occupation under their jurisdiction must
             comply with these regulations.
             •    The business type does not involve childcare or food production.

The cottage business produces small, custom pieces of jewelry, primarily gemstone rings,
which do not require a large production space nor does it require a large packaging
operation or containers to ship to customers (Exhibit H & I). Customers place their orders
online and the applicant mails the finished product to the customers (Exhibit H). In no
event does a customer ever come to the home. Occasionally the applicant sells their
products at off-site craft festivals, trade shows and markets. The stated hours of operation
are from 3:00 pm until 6:00 pm, Monday through Saturday. The applicant is the only
employee. No additional onsite parking is needed for this home occupation as there are no
customers coming to the home, no additional employees, and no business vehicles.

Staff recognizes that the potential for negative impacts to the neighborhood from this
business are extremely unlikely given the small scale of the business operation. Staff
suggests that future business operations should continue to remain non-impactful to the
neighborhood and suggests that the Planning Commission consider requiring the following
which have also been included in the recommendations section of this report:

    1. Requiring that customers do not come to the property.
    2. Requiring that the business-related production of jewelry be confined to the
       designated workspace as illustrated on the provided floor plans.

Criteria For Approval.
The criteria for review and potential approval of a home occupation conditional use permit
request are found in Section 9-5-080(E) of the DCMC. This section depicts the standard of
review for such requests as:

         E. Approval Standards: The standards of this subsection shall apply to the issuance
             of a conditional use permit:




Joco Jewelry Home Occupation                                             App. # 2024-0338-USE
Conditional Use Permit Request                   6
          1. A conditional use permit may be issued for a use to be located within a zone
             where the particular conditional use is allowed by the use regulations of the
             zone.
          2. Reasonable conditions may be imposed as necessary to substantially mitigate
             reasonably anticipated detrimental effects of the proposed use. These
             conditions may include conditions concerning use, construction, character,
             location, landscaping, screening, parking, hours of operation, and other matters
             relating to the purposes and objectives of this section. Such conditions shall be
             expressly set forth in the motion authorizing the conditional use permit.
          3. If the reasonably anticipated detrimental effects of a proposed conditional use
             cannot be substantially mitigated by the imposition of reasonable conditions to
             achieve compliance with applicable standards, the conditional use may be
             denied.
          4. The following factors shall be reviewed and considered in determining whether a
             conditional use permit application should be approved, approved with
             conditions, or denied because reasonable conditions cannot be imposed to
             achieve compliance with applicable standards:
               a. The harmony and compliance of the proposed use with the objectives and
                  requirements of the city's general plan and this title;
               b. The suitability of the specific property for the proposed use;
               c. Whether the proposed use or facility may be injurious to potential or existing
                  development in the vicinity;
               d. The economic impact of the proposed facility or use on the surrounding
                  area;
               e. The aesthetic impact of the proposed facility or use on the surrounding area;
               f. The safeguards proposed or provided to ensure adequate utilities,
                  transportation access, drainage, parking, loading space, lighting, screening,
                  landscaping, open space, fire protection, and pedestrian and vehicular
                  circulation;
               g. The safeguards provided or proposed to prevent noxious or offensive
                  emissions such as noise, glare, dust, pollutants and odor from the proposed
                  facility or use; and
               h. The impact of the proposed facility or use on the health, safety, and welfare
                  of the city, the area, and persons owning or leasing property in the area.
          5. The planning commission may request additional information as may be
             reasonably needed to determine whether the requirements of this subsection E
             can be met.

The applicant has provided statements regarding how they believe they comply with
conditional use criteria for approval which are attached as Exhibit H of this report. In the
applicant’s responses they indicate that they believe their request to be in harmony and
compliance with the City’s General Plan as it is a small business with on impact to anyone
outside of the business and that the business will not be injurious to potential or existing



Joco Jewelry Home Occupation                                           App. # 2024-0338-USE
Conditional Use Permit Request                  7
development in the vicinity. The applicant further indicates that the home occupation
business will have a small positive impact the economy of the surrounding area due to
sales tax generation, and that the business will not create any aesthetic, nuisance, health or
safety concerns for the city or surrounding area. Staff principally concurs with the
applicant’s statements and believes the application meets the conditional use criteria
found in subsection 9-5-080(E) of the DCMC for approval.



REVIEWS

Planning Division Review. The Draper City Planning Division has completed their review of
the Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit submission. Comments from this division, if
any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Engineering and Public Works Divisions Review. The Draper City Engineering and Public
Works Divisions have completed their reviews of the Home Occupation Conditional Use
Permit submission. Comments from these divisions, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Building Division Review. The Draper City Building Division has completed their review of
the Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit submission. Comments from this division, if
any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Fire Division Review. The Draper City Fire Marshal has completed his review of the Home
Occupation Conditional Use Permit Submission. Comments from this division, if any, can
be found in Exhibit A.

Noticing. Notice has been properly issued in the manner outlined in the City and State
Codes.



STAFF RECOMMENDATION

Staff recommends that the Planning Commission review the request based on the findings
listed below and the criteria for approval, or denial as listed within the staff report. The
Planning Commission should also review the request, hear from the applicant, and receive
public comment prior to making a decision.

If the Planning Commission decides to approve the request, staff recommends they include
the following conditions of approval:

         1.       That all requirements of the Draper City Engineering, Public Works, Building,
                  Planning, and Fire Divisions shall be satisfied prior to issuance of a business
                  license or its renewal.



Joco Jewelry Home Occupation                                             App. # 2024-0338-USE
Conditional Use Permit Request                    8
         2.       The applicant shall maintain an active business license for as long as the
                  business is in operation from the residence.
         3.       No customers shall be permitted to come to the home.
         4.       The business-related production of jewelry shall be confined to the
                  designated workspace as illustrated on the approved plans.



MODEL MOTIONS AND FINDINGS

Sample Motion for Approval – I move that we approve the Home Occupation Conditional
Use Permit, as requested by Joely Larson, representing Joco Jewelry application 2024-0338-
USE, based on the following findings for approval and subject to the conditions listed in the
Staff Report dated October 24, 2024.

Findings for approval:

         1. The proposal complies with the standards for approval found in DCMC Section 9-
            5-080(E) and potential negative impacts are mitigated through the imposition of
            reasonable conditions.

I move that we approve the Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit, as requested by
Joely Larson, representing Joco Jewelry application 2024-0338-USE, based on the findings
for approval and subject to the conditions listed in the Staff Report dated October 24, 2024
and as modified by the following additional findings or conditions:

         1. List any additional findings…
         2. List any additional conditions…

Sample Motion for Denial – I move that we deny the Home Occupation Conditional Use
Permit, as requested by Joely Larson, representing Joco Jewelry application 2024-0338-USE,
based on the following findings and the criteria for denial as listed in the Staff Report dated
October 24, 2024.

Findings for denial:

         1. The proposal does not comply with all standards for approval found in DCMC
            Section 9-5-080(E) and potential negative impacts are not able to be sufficiently
            mitigated through the imposition of reasonable conditions.




Joco Jewelry Home Occupation                                             App. # 2024-0338-USE
Conditional Use Permit Request                   9
                                     EXHIBIT A
                                DEPARTMENT REVIEWS

REVIEWS ARE NOT MEANT TO BE AN ALL-INCLUSIVE LIST OF POSSIBLE COMMENTS OR
CONDITIONS.



Planning Division Review.

       1.     No additional comments.

Engineering and Public Works Divisions Review.

       1.     No additional comments

Building Division Review.

       1.     No additional comments.

Fire Division Review.

       1.     No additional comments.
  EXHIBIT B
VICINITY MAP
 EXHIBIT C
AERIAL MAP
  EXHIBIT D
LAND USE MAP
 EXHIBIT E
ZONING MAP
EXHIBIT F
SITE PLAN
  EXHIBIT G
FLOOR PLANS
                EXHIBIT H
APPLICANT STATEMENTS AND DOCUMENTATION
    EXHIBIT I
INTERIOR PHOTO




  Work Station
