MEMO
To: City Council
From: Travis DeJong
Date: 2024-02-20
Re: Action Item: Providing Local Consent for a Single Event Permit for MS Brands LLC.
Staff report by Travis DeJong


Comments:

MS Brands LLC will hold an event serving alcoholic beverages at 1283 E Mike Weir Dr on
May 4, 2024 from 1:30PM until 6:00PM. They are seeking Local Consent for a Single Event
Permit.

They have provided the following:
- Liquor liability insurance.
- Bond payable to the Department of Alcoholic Beverage Services.
- Floor map showing where alcohol is to be served, stored, and consumed.
- A background check conducted by the Bureau of Criminal Identification.

The findings for Local Consent approval are as follows:

     Per Utah State Code 32B-9-201(5), single event permits do not have any proximity
     requirements to meet.
     DCMC 6-4-050 states that organizations are limited to four (4) single event permits
     per calendar year if at least one permit is a one hundred twenty (120) hours single
     event permit. Organizations may apply for up to twelve (12) single event permits per
     calendar year if they are all seventy-two (72) hour single event permits.
          The applicant has applied for one seventy-two hour permit in calendar year
          2024 and meets this requirement.

     DCMC 6-4-050 places no restrictions on the number of single event permits that can
     be granted by the City.

Below are possible conditions of approval to mitigate concerns the City Council discussed
in the previous public meeting on February 6, 2024. They may be amended upon further
deliberation by the City Council:

  1. Doors to the outdoor patios shall not be propped open and shall be kept closed
     when not used for exit and entry to prevent sound pollution outside.
  2. Music shall not be played on speakers outdoors.
  3. Parking on Mike Weir Dr. is prohibited. Applicant shall advertise the event has
     having no street parking and encourage carpooling and rideshare options.
  4. Timed entries shall be utilized to reduce the amount of people arriving at the site at
     the same time.
  5. Observe fire code occupancy limits.


ATTACHMENTS:

Bond.pdf
ATTACHMENTS:

Floor Plan.pdf
ATTACHMENTS:

Liquor Liability Insurance.pdf
ATTACHMENTS:

MS Brands PowerPoint.pptx
