                                 Development Review Committee
                                      1020 East Pioneer Road
                                        Draper, Utah 84020



                                                 STAFF REPORT
                                                 January 2, 2024

To:                   Draper City Planning Commission
                      Business Date: January 11, 2024

From:                 Development Review Committee

Prepared By:          Maryann Pickering, AICP, Planner III
                      Planning Division
                      Community Development Department
                      (801) 576-6391 or maryann.pickering@draperutah.gov

Re:     Alplenglow Bike — Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit Request
        Application No.:  2023-4588-USE
        Applicant:        Cameron Wride
        Project Location: Approximately 14743 S. White Petal Court
        Current Zoning:   MPC – Edelweiss (Edelweiss Master Planned Community Zone)
        Acreage:          Approximately 0.21 acres (approximately 9147.6 square feet)
        Request:          Approval of a home occupation conditional use permit for a
                          home based cottage business that provides custom assembly
                          of mountain bikes.



SUMMARY and BACKGROUND
This application is a request for 0.21 acres located on the east side of White Petal Court
(Exhibits B and C). The property is currently zoned MPC – Edelweiss. The applicant is
requesting approval of a home based cottage business to provide custom assembly of
mountain bikes.

The home was originally built in 2021 and is Lot 905R of the Edelweiss Phase 9 residential
subdivision.


Alpenglow Bike                                                       App. # 2023-4588-USE
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit Request         1
ANALYSIS
General Plan and Zoning.

 Table 1                   General Plan and Zoning Designations                Exhibit
 Existing Land Use         Residential Medium Density                          Exhibit D
 Current Zoning            MPC – Edelweiss                                     Exhibit E
 Adjacent Zoning
    East                   MPC – Edelweiss
    West                   MPC – Edelweiss
    North                  MPC – Edelweiss
    South                  MPC – Edelweiss

The Residential Medium Density land use designation is characterized as follows:




According to Draper City Municipal Code (DCMC) Section 9-28-020(A) the purpose of the
MPC-Edelweiss zone is to “to provide a master planned development where customized


Alpenglow Bike                                                    App. # 2023-4588-USE
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit Request   2
zoning requirements apply in order to allow for a compatible transition between
neighboring residential uses and the Corner Canyon Regional Park. Significant features of
the development include thirty percent (30%) open space, low average density and
trailhead accommodation. Implementation of the MPC zone will provide the flexibility to
create a mix of residential uses that will appeal to many different homebuyers and price
ranges not typically found in other zoning classifications within the city.”

Site Plan Layout. The provided floor plan layout of the garage area (Exhibit F) shows where
the custom bikes will be assembled. The second page of the exhibit shows where all
associated parts and materials will be stored in the basement of the home. The applicant
delivers the assembled bikes to customers and does not anticipate any customers coming
to the home.

 Table 2                      Site Plan Design Requirements
 Standard                     DCMC Requirements      Proposal                Notes
 Lot/Parcel Size              8,000 square feet      9,147.6 square feet
 Street Frontage              50-feet minimum
 Setbacks
                              15 feet to living
     Front                                              20 feet
                              20 feet to garage
     Rear                     20 feet                   40 feet
                              15 feet total with 5 on
     Sides                    one side – 10 on other    15 total
                              side

Home Occupation. DCMC Section 9-34-040 outlines development standards applicable to
all home occupations. Those criteria, along with information specific to the subject
request, are as follows:

        A.       Ownership: The home occupation shall be owned and operated by a person
                 who resides in the dwelling where the home occupation is located. Such
                 person shall be the primary provider of the labor, work, or service provided
                 in the home occupation.

                 The home occupation will be owned by the applicant who resides at the
                 home. They indicated in their responses (Exhibit G) that they are the only
                 employee of the business.

        B.       Business License: A business license for the home occupation shall be
                 obtained from and continually maintained with the city pursuant to Title 6,
                 Chapter 11 of this code.

                 The applicant has indicated that his business license application is in process

Alpenglow Bike                                                         App. # 2023-4588-USE
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit Request     3
                 and currently has a temporary license while the conditional use is being
                 required.

        C.       Employees: Members of the family of the owner who reside in the dwelling
                 may be employed in the home occupation. Nonfamily or nonresident
                 employees shall be limited to one person.

                 The applicant will be the only employee.

        D.       Inspection: All facilities shall comply with fire, building, plumbing, electrical
                 and all other city, county, state and federal codes. Inspections during
                 reasonable hours by city officials may occur as necessary to assure
                 compliance with regulations.

                 All facilities will comply with applicable codes.

        E.       Inventory: No stock in trade, inventory, or other merchandise to exceed two
                 hundred fifty (250) square feet shall be kept on the premises. No outside
                 storage is allowed.

                 Inventory is kept in the closest area in the basement area that is
                 approximately 60 square feet in size.

        F.       Modification Of Structures Or Yards: There shall be no visible evidence from
                 the exterior of a dwelling that it is being used for any other purpose than that
                 of a dwelling. No activities shall be carried on outside the dwelling in the
                 yard for the benefit of or incidental to the home occupation. No front yard
                 area shall be altered to provide parking required for a home occupation.

                 There will be no visible entrance and no activities will be conducted outside
                 of the dwelling or any yard areas.

        G.       Nuisance: Tools, items, equipment, or activities conducted within the
                 dwelling which is offensive or noxious by reason of the emission of odor,
                 smoke, gas, vibration, magnetic interference, or noise shall be prohibited.

                 Assembly is done with hand tools. No offensive or noxious odors, smoke,
                 gas, vibration, magnetic interference, or noise would be created by the tools,
                 items, equipment, or activities conducted as part of the business.

        H.       Secondary Use: The home occupation shall be clearly incidental and
                 secondary to the primary use of the dwelling for residential purposes. The
                 home occupation shall not disrupt the normal residential character of the


Alpenglow Bike                                                             App. # 2023-4588-USE
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit Request    4
                 neighborhood in which the residence is located. Not more than twenty five
                 percent (25%) of the dwelling unit shall be used for the home occupation.

                 The total area of storage for the business is 60 square feet and the only up to
                 1/3 or 220 square feet of the garage area will be used. The home has a three
                 car garage so there will always be at least two parking spots available. The
                 total area for the business is approximately 280 square feet or 5.7% of the
                 4,868 approximately square footage of the residence, including the garage.
                 Detailed floor plans can be found in Exhibit F.

        I.       Signs: All signage in a residential area must comply with Chapter 26, "Signs",
                 of this title.

                 There will be no visible signage from the exterior of the residence.

        J.       Traffic, Parking, and Access: No home occupation use shall generate
                 pedestrian, parking, or vehicular traffic in excess of that customarily
                 associated with the zone in which the use is located. All parking shall be
                 provided and maintained on site with adequate provision for drop off traffic.

                 There will be no customers coming to the residence and therefore no
                 increase in traffic.

        K.       Vehicles: Other than the business owner's personal transportation, there
                 shall be no vehicles or equipment on the property associated with the home
                 occupation which would not normally be found at a residence. No signage
                 for the home occupation shall be allowed on vehicles.

                 The applicant does not intend to have any vehicles other than what would
                 normally be associated with residence. No signs are proposed on any of the
                 personal vehicles.

        L.       Yards: Yards surrounding the dwelling and accessory buildings shall not be
                 used for any activities or storage of any materials associated with the home
                 occupation.

                 There will be no business activities in any yard area.

        M.       Customers: No customers allowed. Children accessing a limited daycare or
                 limited preschool facility shall not be considered customers.

                 There will be no customers coming to the residence.



Alpenglow Bike                                                            App. # 2023-4588-USE
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit Request   5
        N.       Utility Demand: The home occupation shall not cause a demand for public
                 utilities in excess of that necessarily and customarily provided for residential
                 uses.

                 There is no increase in utility demand beyond normal residential use.

        O.       Main Structure: The home occupations shall be conducted, located, and
                 contained within the primary structure on the property.

                 The business will be contained with the primary structure.

        P.       Single-Family And Multiple-Family Dwellings: Home occupations listed as
                 permitted or conditional within this title may be permitted in a single-family
                 or a multiple-family dwelling, subject to the standards found within this
                 section and Section 9-34-060 of this chapter. Businesses within multiple-
                 family dwellings shall provide an approval letter from the respective
                 homeowners’ association, or management company in the case of
                 apartments, if the business proposes any employees, customers or business
                 vehicles.

                 The subject site is a single-family dwelling. The use of limited assembly and
                 repair is listed as an allowable conditional use in chapter 34.

        Q.       Licensure: Any home occupation involving childcare shall comply with all
                 applicable state and local laws and regulations regarding residential
                 childcare, including, but not limited to, provisions of the Utah child care
                 licensing act, as set forth in Utah Code Annotated section 26-39-101 et seq.,
                 as amended, and the residential certificate childcare standards as set forth in
                 the Utah administrative code section R430-50-1 et seq., as amended. In
                 addition, cottage food production operations are regulated and inspected by
                 the Utah department of agriculture. Any food related home occupation
                 under their jurisdiction must comply with these regulations.

                 The business is not related to child care or food.

Criteria for Approval
The criteria for review and potential approval of a conditional use permit request is found
in Section 9-5-080(E) of the DCMC. This section depicts the standard of review for such
requests as:

        E.       Approval Standards: The standards of this subsection shall apply to the
                 issuance of a conditional use permit:
                 1.     A conditional use permit may be issued for a use to be located within


Alpenglow Bike                                                          App. # 2023-4588-USE
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit Request   6
                          a zone where the particular conditional use is allowed by the use
                          regulations of the zone.
                 2.       Reasonable conditions may be imposed as necessary to substantially
                          mitigate reasonably anticipated detrimental effects of the proposed
                          use. These conditions may include conditions concerning use,
                          construction, character, location, landscaping, screening, parking,
                          hours of operation, and other matters relating to the purposes and
                          objectives of this section. Such conditions shall be expressly set forth
                          in the motion authorizing the conditional use permit.
                 3.       If the reasonably anticipated detrimental effects of a proposed
                          conditional use cannot be substantially mitigated by the imposition of
                          reasonable conditions to achieve compliance with applicable
                          standards, the conditional use may be denied.
                 4.       The following factors shall be reviewed and considered in determining
                          whether a conditional use permit application should be approved,
                          approved with conditions, or denied because reasonable conditions
                          cannot be imposed to achieve compliance with applicable standards:
                          a.      The harmony and compliance of the proposed use with the
                                  objectives and requirements of the city's general plan and this
                                  title;
                          b.      The suitability of the specific property for the proposed use;
                          c.      Whether the proposed use or facility may be injurious to
                                  potential or existing development in the vicinity;
                          d.      The economic impact of the proposed facility or use on the
                                  surrounding area;
                          e.      The aesthetic impact of the proposed facility or use on the
                                  surrounding area;
                          f.      The safeguards proposed or provided to ensure adequate
                                  utilities, transportation access, drainage, parking, loading
                                  space, lighting, screening, landscaping, open space, fire
                                  protection, and pedestrian and vehicular circulation;
                          g.      The safeguards provided or proposed to prevent noxious or
                                  offensive emissions such as noise, glare, dust, pollutants and
                                  odor from the proposed facility or use; and
                          h.      The impact of the proposed facility or use on the health, safety,
                                  and welfare of the city, the area, and persons owning or
                                  leasing property in the area.
                 5.       The Planning Commission may request additional information as may
                          be reasonably needed to determine whether the requirements of this
                          subsection E can be met.




Alpenglow Bike                                                            App. # 2023-4588-USE
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit Request     7
REVIEWS
Planning Division Review. The Draper City Planning Division has completed their review of
the home occupation conditional use permit submission. Comments from this division, if
any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Building Division Review. The Draper City Building Division has completed their review of
the home occupation conditional use permit submission. Comments from this division, if
any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Engineering and Public Works Divisions Review. The Draper City Engineering and Public
Works Divisions have completed their reviews of the home occupation conditional use
permit submission. Comments from these divisions, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Fire Division Review. The Draper City Fire Marshal has completed his review of the home
occupation conditional use permit submission. Comments from him, if any, can be found
in Exhibit A.

Legal Division Review. The Draper City Attorney has completed his review of the home
occupation conditional use permit submission. Comments from this division, if any, can be
found in Exhibit A.

Noticing. Notice has been properly issued in the manner outlined in the City and State
Codes.



STAFF RECOMMENDATION
Staff recommends that the Planning Commission review the request, receive public
comment, and make a decision based on the findings listed below and the criteria for
approval, or denial, as listed within the staff report.

If the Planning Commission decides to approve the request, staff recommends they include
the following conditions of approval:

1.       That all requirements of the Draper City Engineering, Public Works, Building,
         Planning, and Fire Divisions are satisfied throughout the development of the site
         and the construction on the site, including permitting.

The findings for approval as are follows:

1.       Reasonable mitigation measures can be placed on the conditional use to alleviate
         anticipated detrimental effects.

The findings for denial as are follows:


Alpenglow Bike                                                       App. # 2023-4588-USE
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit Request   8
1.      Reasonable mitigation measures cannot be placed on the conditional use to
        alleviate anticipated detrimental effects.



MODEL MOTIONS
Sample Motion for Approval – I move that we approve the conditional use permit, as
requested by Cameron Wride for the Alpenglow Bike home occupation, application 2023-
4588-USE based on the findings listed in the staff report dated January 2, 2024.

Sample Motion for Modified Approval – I move that we approve the conditional use permit,
as requested by Cameron Wride for the Alpenglow Bike home occupation, application
2023-4588-USE based on the findings listed in the staff report dated January 2, 2024 and as
modified by the findings and conditions below:

        1.       List any additional findings and conditions . . .

Sample Motion for Denial – I move that we deny the conditional use permit, as requested
by Cameron Wride for the Alpenglow Bike home occupation, application 2023-4588-USE
based on the findings listed in the staff report dated January 2, 2024.




Alpenglow Bike                                                       App. # 2023-4588-USE
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit Request    9
               DEVELOPMENT REVIEW COMMITTEE ACKNOWLEDGEMENT

We, the undersigned, as duly appointed members of the Draper City Development Review
Committee, do acknowledge that the application which provides the subject for this staff
report has been reviewed by the Committee and has been found to be appropriate for
review by the Draper City Planning Commission and/or City Council.



                   Digitally signed by Brien Maxfield                                    Digitally signed by Matthew T. Symes
                   DN: C=US,                                                             DN: C=US,
                                                                                         E=matt.symes@draperutah.gov,
 Brien Maxfield    E=brien.maxfield@draperutah.gov,
                   O=Draper, OU=Public Works -
                                                               Matthew T. Symes          O=Draper City Building Department,
                                                                                         CN=Matthew T. Symes
                   Engineering, CN=Brien Maxfield
                                                                                         Date: 2024.01.03 16:57:24-07'00'
                   Date: 2024.01.03 13:49:38-07'00'


Draper City Public Works Division                            Draper City Building Division

                                                                                   Digitally signed by Todd A.
                                                                                   Draper
                    Digitally signed by Don Buckley                                DN: C=US,
                                                                                   E=todd.draper@draper.ut.us,
                    DN: C=US, E=don.buckley@draper.ut.us,         Todd A. Draper
Don Buckley         O=Draper City Fire Department, OU=Fire
                    Marshal, CN=Don Buckley
                    Date: 2024.01.03 17:36:37-07'00'
                                                                                   O=Draper City Planning,
                                                                                   CN=Todd A. Draper
                                                                                   Date: 2024.01.03
                                                                                   16:09:44-07'00'

Draper City Fire Department                                  Draper City Planning Division

                                                                                       Digitally signed by Mike

                                                             Mike Barker               Barker
                                                                                       Date: 2024.01.03 10:50:49
                                                                                       -07'00'

                                                             Draper City Legal Counsel
                                      EXHIBIT A
                                 DEPARTMENT REVIEWS

REVIEWS ARE NOT MEANT TO BE AN ALL INCLUSIVE LIST OF POSSIBLE COMMENTS OR
CONDITIONS.

Planning Division Review.
No additional comments provided.

Building Division Review.
No additional comments provided.

Engineering and Public Works Divisions Review.
1.     The present and future requirements for transportation, traffic, water, sewer, and
       other utilities for the subject site do not appear to be detrimentally impacted as
       described. Given the location and proposed use, the use is not anticipated to
       generate a significant impact to water, sewer, or other potential utilities.
2.     The number of trips generated by the home owner/employees will not have a
       detrimental impact to traffic in the area due the stated number of employees,
       none indicated in by the applicant, and no customers visiting the residence where
       all the products are shipped or delivered by the applicant. The applicant has
       indicated all services will be products that are packaged and shipped to and from
       the residence or that the applicant obtains and delivers himself. With the
       applicant’s anticipation that there will be no employees, just the applicant at the
       residence and no customers, no significant impact to traffic is anticipated with the
       proposed use.
3.     The applicant has indicated that no additional parking is needed. Applicant
       indicated occasional shipping and delivery services are expected at the residence.
       White Petal Court, at the indicated address, is a dead end lane with a hammerhead
       turn-around and is a private local street where on-street parking is currently
       prohibited. Since there is no parking on White Petal Court, impacts to traffic will be
       minimal year-round. However, based on the information from the applicant, no
       significant impact to parking is anticipated with the proposed use.
4.     The proposed use does not appear detrimental to the health, safety, or general
       welfare of the persons residing or working in the vicinity, or injurious to the
       property or improvements in the vicinity.

Fire Division Review.
1.     2A-10BC Fire Extinguishers required. The extinguisher needs to be a serviceable
       type meaning metal head and metal neck. Extinguishers need to be located in a
       conspicuous location where they will be readily accessible and immediately
       available for use. Placed on every level of the home. If in cabinet or not the
       extinguisher or cabinet needs to be mounted so that the top is not more than five
       feet above the floor.
2.     There shall be single station interconnected smoke detectors in good working
       condition on each level occupied by the clients. Battery operated smoke detectors
       shall be, permitted if the home demonstrates testing, maintenance, and battery
       replacement to insure continued operation of the smoke detectors.
3.     Visible Addressing Required. New and existing buildings shall have approved
       address numbers plainly legible and visible from the street fronting the property.
       These numbers shall contrast with their background.

Legal Division Review.
No additional comments provided.
  EXHIBIT B
VICINITY MAP
 EXHIBIT C
AERIAL MAP
  EXHIBIT D
LAND USE MAP
 EXHIBIT E
ZONING MAP
         EXHIBIT F
SITE PLAN AND FLOOR PLAN
                                                                                                                     GENERAL FLOOR
                                                                                                                     PLAN NOTES:
                                                                                                                     ·

                                                                                                                     ·
                                                                                                                     ·
                                                                                                                     ·

                                                                                                                     ·




                                                                                                                                                     REVISIONS
                                                                                                                     ·




                                                                                                                                      ISSUE DATE:
                                                                                                                     ·

                            Covered                             Open\                                                ·
                             Deck                               Deck                                                 ·




                                                                                                                                                                              14034 SOUTH 145 EAST, SUITE 202
                                                                                                                     ·
                                                                                                                     ·




                                                                                                                                                                                     DRAPER, UT 84020
                                                                                                                     ·




                                                                                                                                                                                       (480) 695-2027
                                                                                                                     ·



                                                                                                                     FLOOR PLAN
                                                     Owner's                                                         KEYNOTES:
                                                      Suite
           Dining    Great Room



 Kitchen


                                                               Owner's
                                                                Bath
             Mud                                                                                                                                    Draper City Building Department
             Room                                                                                                                                   Reviewed for Code Compliance
                                                                                                                                                                 APPROVED
                                                                                                                                                                 Reid Gerritsen 10/26/2020


                                                         Laundry




                                                                                                                                     Edelweiss at Draper
                                      W.I.C.




                                                                                                                                                                      14743 S. White Petal Court
                                                                     Bath 2




                                                                                                                                                                      Draper, Utah 84092
                    Foyer

3-Car
Garage

                                                                                       WALL LEGEND




                                                                                                                                                                      Lot 905
                    Porch
                                         Bedroom 3             Bedroom 2               FLOORING LEGEND


                                                                                   SQUARE FOOTAGES - PLAN 2
                                                                                                      Farmhouse 14




                                                                                                                                           9105 E. Del Camino Drive, Suite 105
                                                                                                                                               Scottsdale, Arizona 85258
                                                                                                                                                      480 663 2100

                                                                                                                                       JOB NO:SF190025                        PROJ MGR: CTB
                                                                                                                                       DRAWN: RSL                             CHECKED: RSL




                                                                              Farmhouse - 14                                                           LOT 905
                                                                              Main Floor Plan                                                       PLAN 2 - ASHTON
                                                                                                                                                                  A1A
                                                                                                                 1745 SQ FEET
                                                                           28' 2"                                                                                                                          3' 6"                                                      16' 6"

                          6' 8"                                                            7' 0"                                                                              4' 6"




                                                       2' 3"




                                                                                                                                     2' 1"
          3' 6"




                                                                                                                                                                                                            R
                                                                            FIREPLACE
                                                                                           6' 2"
                                  R                            R                                                             R                                            R                                                                      R                     R                  R




                                                                        FAMILY ROOM                                                                                                                                                                                                                 TV
22' 6"




                                  R                            R                                                             R                                            R                                                                  R                         R                  R




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         22' 7"
                                                                                                   SD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      SD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                          20' 1"
                                                                                             SDCM
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 EXERCISE ROOM




                                                                                                                                                                                                                29' 8"
                                  R                            R                                                             R                                                                                                                   R                       R
                                                                                                                                                                          R                                                                                                               R
          7' 0"




                                        12' 11"                                                                                                                   9' 7"                                   2' 9"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           TV
                                              TV

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                13' 6"
                                                                                                                     2' 4"




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              3' 1"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      SD                              16' 6"
          4' 5"




                                                                                                            5' 1"




                                                                                                                                                                                      5' 3"

                                                                                                                                                                                      R                       R




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      7' 0"




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         7' 0"
                              R                    R                                           R                                                                                                                                             R                             R        COLD ROOM   R
                                                                        10' 8"




                                                                   TV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         2' 5"




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              1' 7"
                                      OFFICE                                                   SD
                                                                                  13' 6"
13' 9"




                                                                                                                                                              9' 5"                                         3' 5"

                                                                                                                                                                          WH
                                                                                                            6' 10"




                                                                                                                                             UTILITY ROOM
                                                                                                                                                                                                  6' 8"




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      16' 6"
                                                                                                                     3' 9"




                              R                    R                                                                                              HVAC                                                            SD               SMOKE DETECTOR
                                                       SD                                     R
          4' 4"




                                                                                                                                                                                                                    R              RESET LED LIGHTS


                                                                                                                                                         7' 11"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   OUTLETS
                                                                                                            4' 0"




                                                                                                                                                 4' 3"




                                  TV
                                                                        3' 2"




                                        12' 11"                                                                                                                                                                                    LIGHT SWITCH
          3' 5"




                                                                                                                                                                                                                   HVCA
                                                       SD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  FIRE BLOCKING CEILINGS AND WALLS R-13 INSULATION
                          R                        R                                                7' 9"
                                                                                                                                                 4' 2"




                                                                                                   SD            R                                         5' 2"                                                   CAM WRIDE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   camwride@gmail.com
                                                                                  12' 4"
11' 11"




                                  BEDROOM
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   14743 WHITE PETAL CT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   DRAPER UT 84020
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   801 698-7947
                                                                         6' 10"




                                                                                                              WALK IN CLOSET
                          R                        R
                                                                                                                                                                                          5' 6"




                                                                                                        R                                                R
          3' 6"




                  4' 6"                                4' 5"

                                         12' 11"                                                                                 12' 8"
             EXHIBIT G
APPLICANT STATEMENTS OF COMPLIANCE
‭9-34-040: DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS; PERMITTED USE:‬

‭The development standards set forth in this section shall apply to any home occupation allowed as a permitted use:‬
      ‭A.‬       ‭Ownership:‬ ‭The‬ ‭home‬ ‭occupation‬ ‭shall‬ ‭be‬ ‭owned‬ ‭and‬ ‭operated‬‭by‬‭a‬‭person‬‭who‬‭resides‬‭in‬‭the‬‭dwelling‬
      w
      ‭ here‬ ‭the‬ ‭home‬ ‭occupation‬ ‭is‬ ‭located.‬ ‭Such‬ ‭person‬ ‭shall‬ ‭be‬ ‭the‬ ‭primary‬ ‭provider‬‭of‬‭the‬‭labor,‬‭work,‬‭or‬‭service‬
       ‭provided in the home occupation.‬
            ‭•‬   ‭I own the dwelling‬
      B
      ‭ .‬     ‭Business License: A business license for the home occupation shall be obtained from and continually‬
      ‭maintained with the city pursuant to Title 6, Chapter 11 of this code.‬
            ‭•‬   ‭Application in process (I have a temporary permit while conditional use is being evaluated).‬
      ‭ .‬
      C         ‭Employees: Members of the family of the owner who reside in the dwelling may be employed in the‬
      ‭home occupation. Nonfamily or nonresident employees shall be limited to one person. shall be obtained from‬
       ‭and continually maintained with the city pursuant to Title 6, Chapter 11 of this code.‬
            ‭•‬   ‭I am the only employee‬
      ‭D.‬      ‭Inspection:‬‭All‬‭facilities‬‭shall‬‭comply‬‭with‬‭fire,‬‭building,‬‭plumbing,‬‭electrical‬‭and‬‭all‬‭other‬‭city,‬‭county,‬‭state‬
      ‭ nd‬ ‭federal‬ ‭codes.‬ ‭Inspections‬ ‭during‬ ‭reasonable‬ ‭hours‬ ‭by‬ ‭city‬ ‭officials‬ ‭may‬ ‭occur‬ ‭as‬ ‭necessary‬ ‭to‬ ‭assure‬
      a
       ‭compliance with regulations.‬
            ‭•‬   ‭All facilities comply with codes.‬
      ‭ .‬
      E         ‭Inventory: No stock in trade, inventory, or other merchandise to exceed two hundred fifty (250) square feet‬
      ‭shall be kept on the premises. No outside storage is allowed.‬
            ‭•‬   ‭Inventory is kept in a closet that is approximately 60 sqft. Nothing is stored outside‬
      ‭ .‬
      F           ‭Modification of Structures or Yards: There shall be no visible evidence from the exterior of a dwelling that it‬
      ‭is being used for any other purpose than that of a dwelling. No activities shall be carried on outside the dwelling in‬
       ‭the yard for the benefit of or incidental to the home occupation. No front yard area shall be altered to provide‬
        ‭parking required for a home occupation.‬
            ‭•‬   ‭ here is no visible evidence from the exterior, no activities will be carried outside the dwelling in the yard‬
                  T
                  ‭and no front yard area will be altered.‬
      G
      ‭ .‬     ‭Nuisance: Tools, items, equipment, or activities conducted within the dwelling which is offensive or noxious‬
      ‭by reason of the emission of odor, smoke, gas, vibration, magnetic interference, or noise shall be prohibited.‬
            ‭•‬   ‭ ssembly is done by hand. No power tools, odor, smoke, gas, vibration, magnetic interference or noise is‬
                  A
                  ‭emitted.‬
      ‭ .‬
      H           ‭Secondary Use: The home occupation shall be clearly incidental and secondary to the primary use of the‬
      ‭dwelling for residential purposes. The home occupation shall not disrupt the normal residential character of the‬
       ‭neighborhood in which the residence is located. Not more than twenty five percent (25%) of the dwelling unit shall be‬
        ‭used for the home occupation.‬
            ‭•‬   ‭ ess than 25% of the dwelling is used for the occupation. Up to ⅓ of the garage space will be used for‬
                  L
                  ‭assembly and storage will be limited to the ~60 sqft closet stated above. Primary use of the dwelling is my‬
                   ‭primary residence.‬
      ‭I.‬ ‭Signs: All signage in a residential area must comply with chapter 26, "Signs", of this title.‬
            ‭•‬   ‭There is no signage visible from the exterior.‬
      ‭ .‬
      J           ‭Traffic, Parking, And Access: No home occupation use shall generate pedestrian, parking, or vehicular‬
      ‭traffic in excess of that customarily associated with the zone in which the use is located. All parking shall be‬
       ‭provided and maintained on site with adequate provision for drop off traffic.‬

            ‭•‬   ‭No customers will be visiting the dwelling and thereby no increase in traffic is expected.‬
      ‭ .‬
      K        ‭Vehicles: Other than the business owner's personal transportation, there shall be no vehicles or equipment on‬
      ‭the property associated with the home occupation which would not normally be found at a residence. No signage for‬
       ‭the home occupation shall be allowed on vehicles.‬
            ‭•‬   ‭ he business is in compliance. There are no vehicles or equipment that would not normally be found at a‬
                  T
                  ‭residence. No signage is on vehicles.‬
      ‭ .‬
      L        ‭Yards: Yards surrounding the dwelling and accessory buildings shall not be used for any activities or‬
      ‭storage of any materials associated with the home occupation.‬
            ‭•‬   ‭The yard is not used for anything related to the business.‬
      ‭ .‬
      M        ‭Customers: No customers allowed. Children accessing a limited daycare or limited preschool facility shall‬
      ‭not be considered customers.‬
     ‭•‬   ‭No customers will be visiting the dwelling.‬
‭ .‬
N       ‭Utility Demand: The home occupation shall not cause a demand for public utilities in excess of that‬
‭necessarily and customarily provided for residential uses.‬
     ‭•‬   ‭There is no increase in utility demand beyond normal residential use.‬
‭ .‬
O         ‭Main Structure: The home occupations shall be conducted, located, and contained within the primary structure‬
‭on the property.‬
     ‭•‬   ‭The occupation is conducted, located and contained within the primary structure.‬
‭ .‬
P          ‭Single-Family and Multiple-Family Dwellings: Home occupations listed as permitted or conditional within this‬
‭title may be permitted in a single-family or a multiple-family dwelling, subject to the standards found within this section‬
 ‭and section 9-34-060 of this chapter. Businesses within multiple-family dwellings shall provide an approval letter from‬
  ‭the respective homeowners' association, or management company in the case of apartments, if the business proposes‬
   ‭any employees, customers or business vehicles.‬
     ‭•‬   ‭It is a single-family dwelling.‬
‭ .‬
Q            ‭Licensure: Any home occupation involving childcare shall comply with all applicable state and local laws and‬
‭regulations regarding residential childcare, including, but not limited to, provisions of the Utah child care licensing act,‬
 ‭as set forth in Utah Code Annotated section 26-39-101 et seq., as amended, and the residential certificate childcare‬
  ‭standards as set forth in the Utah administrative code section R430-50-1 et seq., as amended. In addition, cottage‬
   ‭food production operations are regulated and inspected by the Utah department of agriculture. Any food related home‬
    ‭occupation under their jurisdiction must comply with these regulations.‬
     ‭•‬   ‭The business is not related to child care or food.‬
