MEMO
To: City Council
From: Jennifer Jastremsky, AICP
Date: 2025-10-21
Re: Public Hearing: Approval of Ordinances #1678 and #1679


Comments:


This application is a request for approval of a Zoning Map Amendment and Land Use Map
Amendment for approximately 0.83 acres located on the north side of 11900 South, at
approximately 625 East 11900 South. The property is currently zoned RA2. The applicant
is seeking approval for the map changes to allow the property to be developed as part of
their adjacent multi-family development project.


The item was heard by the Planning Commission at their October 9, 2025 meeting. An
update on their recommendation will be provided at the meeting.

The findings are as follows:


For Approval:


  1. The zoning map amendment is consistent with goals, objectives and policies of the
     city's general plan.
  2. The zoning map amendment is consistent with the standards of any applicable
     overlay zone.
  3. Adequate facilities and services will be available to serve the subject property,
     including, but not limited to, roadways, parks and recreation facilities, police and fire
     protection, schools, stormwater drainage systems, water supplies, and wastewater
     and refuse collection.
  4. The zoning map amendment is appropriate given the approved Kimballs Station
     Area Plan with respect to the Utah State Code requirements of 10-9a-403.1.


For Denial:



  1. The zoning map amendment is not consistent with goals, objectives and policies of
     the city's general plan.
  2. The zoning map amendment is not consistent with the standards of any applicable
     overlay zone.
  3. Adequate facilities and services will not be available to serve the subject property,
     including, but not limited to, roadways, parks and recreation facilities, police and fire
     protection, schools, stormwater drainage systems, water supplies, and wastewater
     and refuse collection.
  4. The zoning map amendment is not appropriate given the approved Kimballs Station
     Area Plan with respect to the Utah State Code requirements of 10-9a-403.1.




ATTACHMENTS:

Ordinance 1678_Kimballs Zoning Map Amendment.pdf
ATTACHMENTS:

Ordinance 1679_Kimballs Land Use Map Amendment.pdf
ATTACHMENTS:

Kimballs_Junction_Addition_ZMA_LUMA_Staff_Report_-PC_10-9-25_-_Combined.pdf
