MINUTES OF THE DRAPER CITY COUNCIL MEETING HELD ON TUESDAY, OCTOBER 7,
2025, IN THE DRAPER CITY COUNCIL CHAMBERS, 1020 EAST PIONEER ROAD, DRAPER,
UTAH

PRESENT:     Mayor Troy K. Walker, and Councilmembers Mike Green (via Zoom),
             Bryn Heather Johnson, Tasha Lowery, Fred Lowry, and Marsha Vawdrey
EXCUSED:
STAFF:       Mike Barker, City Manager; Kellie Challburg, Assistant City Manager;
             Scott Cooley, City Engineer and Public Works Director; Spencer
             DuShane, Assistant City Attorney; Rich Ferguson, Chief of Police; Traci
             Gundersen, City Attorney; Jennifer Jastremsky, Community
             Development Director; Robert Markle, Deputy Public Works Director
             /Engineer; Derek Orth, Human Resource Director; Linda Peterson,
             Communications Director; Nicole Smedley, City Recorder; Clint Smith,
             Fire Chief; Jake Sorensen, Network Manager; and John Vuyk, Finance
             Director
______________________________________________________________________________________

Study Session

   Closed Meeting

   Councilmember Johnson moved to recess to a closed session to discuss the sale,
   purchase, exchange, or lease of real property. Councilmember Vawdrey
   seconded the motion.

   A roll call vote was taken. The motion passed unanimously.
                                    Yes     No      Absent
   Councilmember Green                                X
   Councilmember Johnson             X
   Councilmember T. Lowery           X
   Councilmember F. Lowry                             X
   Councilmember Vawdrey             X

   Discussion: Solid Waste Text Amendment
   Public Works Director/City Engineer Scott Cooley stated that staff wished to
   review the proposed Code text amendments to eliminate City solid waste
   collection services on private roads one final time before presenting them for
   approval. He emphasized that private roads generally present safety concerns for
                                                                            1|Page
        Draper City Council DRAFT Meeting Minutes - October 7, 2025
collection trucks and that the proposed amendments were intended to address
safety and liability issues. Mr. Cooley explained that the City issued a request for
proposals (RFP) and subsequently negotiated a contract with Ace Recycling and
Disposal. Under the new contract, Ace would assign two-person crews to service
private roads by wheeling bins to larger public roads, thereby avoiding the need
to drive collection trucks on private roads. He further noted that, under the
proposed arrangement, the cost of collection services for private roads would
increase from $15 to $37 per month.

The Council discussed whether to eliminate City collection services from all
private roads or to selectively continue service on private roads that may present
a lower safety risk to City trucks and employees. Staff noted that all private roads
present some degree of liability to the City, as they are not City-owned.

Mr. Cooley stated that the change would affect approximately 1,300 households.
He said staff had explored multiple approaches over the years but determined
that the proposed text amendments and contract provided the most appropriate
solution for all private roads.

Councilmember T. Lowery inquired about the cost if a resident decided to take
their own waste to the landfill rather than utilizing City collection services. Mr.
Markle stated that the landfill fee was a $15 minimum for non-commercial
customers with a gross vehicle weight (GVW) of up to 10,000 pounds, including
the weight of the vehicle, trailer, and contents. Staff also noted that residents
must comply with all applicable health codes. Councilmember T. Lowery pointed
out residents could choose to enter their own contract with an independent
collection provider.

Discussion: City Property in Town Center Station Area Plan
Community Development Director Jennifer Jastremsky said the Council had asked
staff to present ideas for what could be done on City-owned property in the Town
Center Station Area. She said the City owned 9.27 acres next to City Hall. Ms.
Jastremsky said the Town Center Station Area Plan (SAP) included a medium-sized
community center next to City Hall, mixed-use, twin homes lining the south side
of the property, and townhomes lining the road connecting the Fitzgerald
property (Ivory development). She said she knew the Council had heard ideas for
visual performing arts, sports and recreation, and a Historical Society Museum.
Ms. Jastremsky said she anticipated approximately 2.5 acres being used for a civic
center, with remaining acreage used for residential, as anticipated in the SAP.

                                                                          2|Page
Ms. Jastremsky described civic areas in other cities in the Salt Lake Valley. Ms.
Jastremsky expressed the opinion that theater space and recreation space should
be separate to avoid programming conflicts. Councilmember F. Lowry suggested
putting sports in a basement space. Ms. Jastremsky suggested the Council
consider adding a parking structure to increase parking for Draper Days and other
events. Councilmember Vawdery said she was not a big proponent of adding a
recreation element. Councilmember T. Lowery commented that Draper did not
have enough court space to meet demand for the Junior Jazz program.

Councilmember T. Lowery said she was not in favor of leasing City land for private
enterprise use. Councilmember Johnson said a museum would need to be in
conjunction with other elements, and not a stand-alone museum.
Councilmember T. Lowery said she liked the idea of using some of the land for a
community center with theater space and recreation space, with some museum
elements reflected in an entry area, and remaining museum materials on a
second floor. A majority of the Council indicated agreement. The Council
discussed integrating outdoor space into the project.

Discussion: America250/Utah250 Community
Community Development Director Jennifer Jastremsky said the United States
would celebrate 250 years in 2026, and the State of Utah was preparing a Utah250
Community program. Ms. Jastremsky said the Historic Preservation Commission
discussed potentially planning an event in conjunction with various events
throughout the State, and suggested the City pass a resolution to become a
Utah250 Community.

Councilmember F. Lowry said he believed the City needed to take advantage of
the Utah250 Community opportunity. Mayor Walker said the story of the
Revolution and the Constitution was a story of hope, vision, life, freedom, and
excitement, and celebrating 250 years was a big deal. He suggested planning a
Draper City event, taking advantage of State resources. Councilmember F. Lowry
suggested tying Draper Days to the celebration.

Ms. Jastremsky said the State would give the City $1,500 toward the celebration if
a resolution was passed and a committee formed by the end of 2025. She said
staff reserved every pavilion in the City for July 5, 2026, with the idea of planning
a citywide potluck meal.



                                                                           3|Page
   The Council discussed incorporating a Walk250 program. Ms. Jastremsky shared
   ideas, including 250 kids walking in the parade carrying flags, and the Tree
   Committee coordinating planting 250 trees.

   Council/Manager Reports
   Plastic Puma Found on City Trail
   Communications Director Linda Peterson shared that a life-sized plastic puma
   had been found on a City trail, and staff had been having fun featuring the “puma”
   on social media. She said the social media posts had been leading up to the puma
   being “captured” by Animal Services. Ms. Peterson suggested adopting the puma
   as a City mascot, with a naming contest among residents. She said several people
   had already asked to take selfies with the puma. Discussion ensued regarding
   changing the name from “puma” to “mountain lion” and holding a naming contest
   among residents. Responding to a question from Councilmember T. Lowery, Ms.
   Peterson said the Police Department confirmed no lost property report had been
   filed for the puma. A majority of the Council appeared to indicate support.

   Jordan Basin Improvement District Board Appointment
   City Manager Mike Barker said the City needed to appoint a representative to the
   Jordan Basin Improvement District Board by January 1, 2026. He stated the
   representative could be a member of the Council, or a selection process was
   outlined in State Code if the Council preferred to appoint someone not on the
   Council. Mr. Barker said he would obtain additional information for the Council
   by the next meeting regarding the time commitment. Councilmember T. Lowery
   stated she felt the representative should be someone in-house, whether the
   Mayor, a Councilmember, or a member of staff.

Business Session

1. Call to Order by Mayor Troy K. Walker

2. Pledge of Allegiance led by John Vuyk

3. Recognition
   Continued to a future date

4. Public Comments
   Peter Drubin, Draper resident, said his family moved to the Hidden Canyon
   Estates neighborhood in 2018. He said his property originally had a 90-foot buffer


                                                                            4|Page
   of City-owned land and sat about 49 feet higher than the Mercer Mountain access
   road, which protected his home’s views and privacy. Mr. Drubin stated the Mercer
   Mountain project had since raised the City-owned parcel by approximately 60 feet
   with fill dirt, eliminating those views and reducing his property’s privacy. He
   expressed concern about the impact of the change on nearby residents.


5. Consent Items
   5.a September 16, 2025 City Council Meeting Minutes

       Councilmember Vawdrey moved to approve the Consent Agenda.
       Councilmember T. Lowery seconded the motion.

        A roll call vote was taken. The motion passed unanimously.
                                          Yes No      Absent
        Councilmember Green                X
        Councilmember Johnson              X
        Councilmember T. Lowery            X
        Councilmember F. Lowry             X
        Councilmember Vawdrey              X

6. Items for Council Consideration
   6.a Public Hearing: Resolution #25-50 amending the adopted Budget of Draper
       City for Fiscal Year 2025-2026
       Finance Director John Vuyk presented proposed amendments to the FY2026
       Budget, and reported the State had not approved the Certified Tax Rate with
       an increase. Mr. Vuyk said the amendment would reduce Property Tax
       Revenue by the amount not approved by the State.

       Mr. Barker answered questions from the Council regarding a 2001
       agreement with the County for maintenance of the County golf course. He
       said the City was obligated to maintain storm water systems. Under the
       agreement, the County would perform maintenance work and the City would
       pay for the work. Mr. Barker said the situation had not gone as agreed upon,
       and at that point, staff were prepared to do the work just to get it done. He
       said the agreement included a termination clause that allowed termination
       with 30-day notice, and said staff would consider the possibility and bring
       back a recommendation. Councilmember T. Lowery pointed out that doing
       the work would increase the cost to the City, and suggested the County

                                                                           5|Page
       should reimburse for the cost of the work. Mr. Cooley explained the current
       issue was a storm drain problem that dated back to 2023 flooding.

       Responding to a question from Councilmember T. Lowery, Mr. Barker
       explained a new vendor had been selected to work with the City for holiday
       lighting. The new arrangement would eliminate the need to purchase new
       lights every year. The requested budget adjustment would go toward the
       new contract.

       Mayor Walker opened a public hearing.

       Brad Byington, Draper resident, shared his professional history in law
       enforcement and security. He said he knew investment in technological
       advancement could save ten-fold or more over the course of utilization, and
       urged the Council to approve the proposed amendment to invest in license
       plate readers.

       Mayor Walker closed the public hearing.

       Councilmember F. Lowry moved to approve                   Resolution    #25-50.
       Councilmember Johnson seconded the motion.

       A roll call vote was taken. The motion passed unanimously.
                                       Yes No      Absent
        Councilmember Green             X
        Councilmember Johnson           X
        Councilmember T. Lowery         X
        Councilmember F. Lowry          X
        Councilmember Vawdrey           X

7. Action Items
   7.a Ordinance #1680 amending Draper City Municipal Code Sections 7-11-010
       and 7-11-030 regarding collection of solid waste and recyclable materials on
       private streets
       Public Works Director/Engineer Scott Cooley explained the proposed
       ordinance would amend City Code to discontinue City solid waste and
       recycling collection on private streets due to safety and liability concerns. Mr.
       Cooley said a third-party provider would be contracted to provide those
       services. He noted the Council had discussed the proposed ordinance in

                                                                              6|Page
      previous meetings. Responding to a question from Councilmember T.
      Lowery, he confirmed that many private streets in the City were already
      serviced by third-party providers for liability reasons.
      Councilmember F. Lowry moved to approve Ordinance #1680.
      Councilmember Vawdrey seconded the motion.

      A roll call vote was taken. The motion passed unanimously.
                                      Yes No      Absent
      Councilmember Green              X
      Councilmember Johnson            X
      Councilmember T. Lowery          X
      Councilmember F. Lowry           X
      Councilmember Vawdrey            X

7.b Resolution #25-51 approving an agreement with Ace Recycling and Disposal,
      Inc. for solid waste and recyclable material collection on private streets in
      Draper City
      Mr. Cooley said the City put out an RFP, and selected Ace as the third-party
      provider for solid waste and recycling collection on private streets.
      Responding to a question from Councilmember F. Lowry, Mr. Cooley said
      only one bid was received in response to the RFP.

      Councilmember Vawdrey moved to approve                 Resolution    #25-51.
      Councilmember T. Lowery seconded the motion.

      A roll call vote was taken. The motion passed unanimously.
                                      Yes No      Absent
      Councilmember Green              X
      Councilmember Johnson            X
      Councilmember T. Lowery          X
      Councilmember F. Lowry           X
      Councilmember Vawdrey            X

7.c   Resolution #25-52 amending the Consolidated Fee Schedule of Draper City
      Finance Director John Vuyk explained proposed amendments to the
      Consolidated Fee Schedule.

      Councilmember Johnson moved to approve                 Resolution    #25-52.
      Councilmember T. Lowery seconded the motion.

                                                                          7|Page
      A roll call vote was taken. The motion passed unanimously.
                                      Yes No      Absent
      Councilmember Green              X
      Councilmember Johnson            X
      Councilmember T. Lowery          X
      Councilmember F. Lowry           X
      Councilmember Vawdrey            X

7.d Resolution #25-49 canceling the race for the 4-year At-Large City Council
      seats and certifying Tasha Lowery and Mike Green as elected
      City Recorder Nicole Smedley explained that one of the three candidates for
      the two 4-year At-large City Council seats had withdrawn from the race,
      leaving two candidates for the two seats. She stated that State law allows a
      city to cancel an uncontested race within an election, thereby saving money
      on ballot costs.
      Councilmember Johnson moved to approve Resolution #25-49.
      Councilmember Vawdrey seconded the motion.

      A roll call vote was taken. The motion passed unanimously.
                                      Yes No      Absent
       Councilmember Green             X
       Councilmember Johnson           X
       Councilmember T. Lowery         X
       Councilmember F. Lowry          X
       Councilmember Vawdrey           X

7.e   Resolution #25-54 authorizing a petition to change the name of Stampede
      Drive to Bailey Quinn Lane
      Assistant City Attorney Spencer DuShane explained the request to change
      the name of Stampede Drive to Bailey Quinn Lane was submitted by an
      entire neighborhood as a kind deed for a family grieving the loss of a
      daughter. Mr. DuShane explained the process for street renaming in Salt
      Lake County, which included the City finding the renaming was in the public
      interest.

      Councilmember T. Lowery moved to approve               Resolution   #25-54.
      Councilmember Johnson seconded the motion.



                                                                          8|Page
      Councilmember T. Lowery said she thought the way the neighborhood had
      come together was wonderful. Councilmember F. Lowry said he agreed.

      A roll call vote was taken. The motion passed unanimously.
                                      Yes No      Absent
      Councilmember Green                            X
      Councilmember Johnson            X
      Councilmember T. Lowery          X
      Councilmember F. Lowry           X
      Councilmember Vawdrey            X

8. Adjournment
  Councilmember T. Lowery moved to adjourn the meeting. Councilmember F.
  Lowry seconded the motion, which passed by unanimous voice vote (5-0).

  The meeting adjourned at 8:34 p.m.




                                                                   9|Page
