                                  Development Review Committee
                                      1020 East Pioneer Road
                                        Draper, UT 84020
                                         March 14, 2025

To:             Draper City Planning Commission
                Business Date: March 27, 2025

From:           Development Review Committee

Prepared By: Nick Whittaker, MCMP, Planner II
             Planning Division
             Community Development Department
             801-576-6522, nick.whittaker@draperutah.gov

Re:     Fratto Farms – Land Use Map and Zoning Map Amendment Requests
        Application No.: 2025-0013-MA & 2025-0014-MA
        Applicant:        Troy Dana of Westland Development, representing Fratto Farms,
                          LLC.
        Project Location: 791 E. 12200 S.
        Current Zoning: RA2 (Residential Agricultural, 20,000 ft² min. lot size)
        Acreage:          2.03 Acres (Approximately 88,427 ft2)
        Request:          Request for approval of a Land Use Map Amendment to change
                          the current land use designation from Residential Medium
                          Density to Residential High Density and a Zoning Map
                          Amendment to change the current zoning designation from RA2
                          to RM2 (Multiple-Family Residential, 12 dwelling units per acre
                          maximum).



BACKGROUND AND SUMMARY

These applications are requests for approval of a Land Use Map Amendment to change the
current land use designation from Residential Medium Density to Residential High Density
and a Zoning Map Amendment to change the current zoning designation from RA2 to RM2
for approximately 2.03 acres located on the north side of 12200 S. at approximately 791 E.
12200 S. (Exhibits C and D). The applicant is requesting that the changes be approved so
that the applicant can develop up to 24 residential dwelling units on the subject property.

The subject property is part of the Draperville plat, Block 23, Lots 1 and 8. A single-family



Fratto Farms                                                           App. # 2025-0013-MA
Land Use & Zoning Map Amendment                                               2025-0014-MA
                                               1
home which fronts onto 12200 S and two (2) storage sheds were built on the property in
approximately 1955. A detached garage was added to the property in 1976. Additional
accessory structures were added to the property between approximately 2002 and 2004.



ANALYSIS

General Plan and Zoning.
 Table 1                  General Plan and Zoning Designations                 Exhibit
 Existing Land Use        Residential Medium Density                           Exhibit E
 Current Zoning           RA2                                                  Exhibit F
 Adjacent Zoning
    East                  RA2
    West                  RA2 and CN (Neighborhood Commercial)
    North                 RA2
    South                 CN

The Residential Medium Density land use designation is characterized as follows:




Fratto Farms                                                       App. # 2025-0013-MA
Land Use & Zoning Map Amendment                                           2025-0014-MA
                                              2
According to Draper City Municipal Code (DCMC) Section 9-8-020 the purpose of the RA2
zone is to, “foster low density development with little impact on its surroundings and
municipal services; to generally preserve the character of the city's semirural areas; and to
promote and preserve conditions favorable to large lot family life, including the keeping of
limited numbers of animals and fowl. The predominant use in these zones is intended to
be detached single-family dwellings, protected from encroachment by commercial and
industrial uses.”

Land Use Map Amendment. The applicant has requested a land use amendment to the
Residential High Density land use designation (Exhibit G). The proposed designation is
compatible with the requested zoning designation of RM2 (Exhibit H). The Residential High
Density land use designation is described as follows:




Zoning Map Amendment. The applicant has requested the RM2 zoning designation for the
property (Exhibit H). According to Draper City Municipal Code (DCMC) Section 9-8-020, the
purpose of the RM2 zone is to “permit well designed apartments, townhomes, twin homes,
and condominiums at relatively high densities that are appropriately buffered from and
compatible with surrounding land uses.”



Fratto Farms                                                         App. # 2025-0013-MA
Land Use & Zoning Map Amendment                                             2025-0014-MA
                                              3
The RM2 zone allows multi-family dwelling units up to 12 dwelling units per acre and single-
family dwellings on lots of at least 4,000 square feet in size. This would allow up to 24
dwellings on the subject property.

Criteria for Approval

Land Use Map Amendment:
The Land Use Map amendment request falls under DCMC Section 9-2-020(F) because the
Land Use Map is part of Draper City’s General Plan. That section lists the following criteria
for a General Plan amendment as:

        Plan Amendment: All plan amendments shall be in accordance with Utah Code
        Annotated 10-9a-404, as amended and, unless requested by the city's legislative
        body, shall follow the procedures as outlined in Draper City Municipal Code 9-5-
        060(D). That section is noted as follows:

        D.      Procedure: Zoning text and map amendments shall be considered and
                processed as provided in this subsection:
                1.    A complete application shall be submitted to the office of the Zoning
                      Administrator in a form established by the administrator along with
                      any fee established by the city’s schedule of fees. The application
                      shall include at least the following information:
                      a.      The name, address and telephone number of the applicant
                              and the applicant’s agent, if any.
                      b.      The name and address of every person or company the
                              applicant represents.
                      c.      The requested amendment and reasons supporting the
                              request.
                      d.      If the proposed amendment requires a change in the zoning
                              map, the application shall include:
                              (1)      An accurate property map showing present and
                                       proposed zoning classifications;
                              (2)      All abutting properties showing present zoning
                                       classifications; and
                              (3)      An accurate legal description and an approximate
                                       common address of the area proposed to be rezoned.
                      e.      If the proposed amendment requires a change in the text of
                              this title, the application shall include chapter and section
                              references and a draft of the proposed text.
                2.    After the application is determined to be complete, the zoning
                      administrator shall prepare a staff report evaluating the application.
                3.    The Planning Commission shall schedule and hold a public hearing on
                      the application as provided in sections 9-5-040 and 9-5-045 of this


Fratto Farms                                                          App. # 2025-0013-MA
Land Use & Zoning Map Amendment                                              2025-0014-MA
                                              4
                        chapter. Following the public meeting, the Planning Commission shall
                        recommend approval, approval with modifications, or denial of the
                        proposed amendment and shall submit its recommendation to the
                        City Council for review and decision.
                4.      The City Council shall schedule and hold a public hearing on the
                        application as provided in sections 9-5-040 and 9-5-045 of this
                        chapter. Following the public hearing, the City Council may approve,
                        approve with modifications, or deny the proposed amendment.

Zoning Map Amendment 9-5-060(E)
A Map Amendment is a matter committed to the legislative discretion of the City Council
and is not controlled by any one standard. However, in making a recommendation to the
City Council, the Planning Commission should consider the following factors in Section 9-5-
060(E)(1) of the DCMC:

        1. Map Amendments:
            a. Whether the proposed amendment is consistent with goals, objectives and
               policies of the city's general plan;
            b. Whether the proposed amendment is harmonious with the overall character
               of existing development in the vicinity of the subject property;
            c. Whether the proposed amendment is consistent with the standards of any
               applicable overlay zone;
            d. The extent to which the proposed amendment may adversely affect adjacent
               property; and
            e. The adequacy of facilities and services intended to serve the subject
               property, including, but not limited to, roadways, parks and recreation
               facilities, police and fire protection, schools, stormwater drainage systems,
               water supplies, and wastewater and refuse collection.

In reviewing the requests, staff noted surrounding land uses and intensities should be
considered in evaluating the proposals. There are other properties in the general area with
the same zoning and land use designations. Additionally, Staff believes that the land use
characteristics of nearby developments are more intense than those associated with the
current residential medium density land use designation, particularly commercial
properties located to the south and west of the subject property. Staff generally agrees
with the applicant’s assertions in their requests (Exhibits G and H) that the proposed RM2
zoning would harmonize with other developments near the subject property. In making the
requests, the applicant however did not identify any specific goals, objectives, or policies
from the City’s General Plan that the proposals would be consistent with.



REVIEWS




Fratto Farms                                                         App. # 2025-0013-MA
Land Use & Zoning Map Amendment                                             2025-0014-MA
                                               5
Planning Division Review. The Draper City Planning Division has completed their review of
the Land Use Map and Zoning Map Amendment submissions. Comments from this
division, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Engineering and Public Works Divisions Review. The Draper City Engineering and Public
Works Divisions have completed their reviews of the Land Use Map and Zoning Map
Amendment submissions. Comments from these divisions, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Building Division Review. The Draper City Building Division has completed their review of
the Land Use Map and Zoning Map Amendment submissions. Comments from this
division, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Fire Division Review. The Draper City Fire Marshal has completed his review of the Land
Use Map and Zoning Map Amendment submissions. Comments from this division, if any,
can be found in Exhibit A.

Legal Division Review. The Draper City Attorney has completed his review of the Land Use
Map and Zoning Map Amendment submissions. Comments from this division, if any, can
be found in Exhibit A.

GIS Division Review. The Draper City GIS Division has completed their review of the Land
Use Map and Zoning Map Amendment Submissions. Comments from this division, if any,
can be found in Exhibit A.

Noticing. Notice has been properly issued in the manner outlined in the City and State
Codes.



STAFF RECOMMENDATION

Staff recommends that the Planning Commission review the request, receive public
comment, and make a recommendation to the City Council based on the findings and
criteria for approval, or denial, as listed within the staff report.



MODEL MOTIONS

Land Use Map Amendment
Sample Motion for Positive Recommendation – I move that we forward a positive
recommendation to the City Council for the Land Use Map Amendment, as requested by
Troy Dana of Westland Development, Representing Fratto Farms, LLC., application 2025-
0014-MA, based on the findings for approval listed in the Staff Report dated March 14,
2025.


Fratto Farms                                                       App. # 2025-0013-MA
Land Use & Zoning Map Amendment                                           2025-0014-MA
                                             6
Findings for Approval:
1.     The proposed land use map amendment is consistent with goals, objectives, and
       policies of the city's general plan.
2.     The proposed land use map amendment is harmonious with the overall character
       of existing development in the vicinity of the subject property.
3.     The proposed land use map amendment will not adversely affect adjacent property.
4.     There are adequate facilities and services intended to serve the subject property,
       including, but not limited to, roadways, parks and recreation facilities, police and fire
       protection, schools, stormwater drainage systems, water supplies, and wastewater
       and refuse collection.
5.     The proposed land use map amendment complies with DCMC Section 9-2-020(F).
6.     The legislative body may adopt any amendment to the general plan land use map
       that the legislative body considers appropriate.

Sample Motion for Modified Positive Recommendation – I move that we forward a positive
recommendation to the City Council for the Land Use Map Amendment, as requested by
Troy Dana of Westland Development, Representing Fratto Farms, LLC., application 2025-
0014-MA, based on the findings for approval listed in the Staff Report dated March 14, 2025
and as modified by the following additional findings:

1.      (List additional findings for approval…)

Sample Motion for Negative Recommendation – I move that we forward a negative
recommendation to the City Council for the Land Use Map Amendment, as requested by
Troy Dana of Westland Development, Representing Fratto Farms, LLC., application 2025-
0014-MA, based on the findings for denial listed in the Staff Report dated March 14, 2025.

Findings for Denial:
1.     The proposed land use map amendment is not consistent with goals, objectives,
       and policies of the city's general plan.
2.     The proposed land use map amendment is not harmonious with the overall
       character of existing development in the vicinity of the subject property.
3.     The proposed land use map amendment will adversely affect adjacent property.
4.     There are not adequate facilities and services intended to serve the subject
       property, including, but not limited to, roadways, parks and recreation facilities,
       police and fire protection, schools, stormwater drainage systems, water supplies,
       and wastewater and refuse collection.
6.     The proposed land use map amendment does not comply with DCMC Section 9-2-
       020(F).
5.     The legislative body may reject any amendment to the general plan land use map
       that the legislative body considers appropriate.




Fratto Farms                                                           App. # 2025-0013-MA
Land Use & Zoning Map Amendment                                               2025-0014-MA
                                               7
Zoning Map Amendment
Sample Motion for Positive Recommendation – I move that we forward a positive
recommendation to the City Council for approval of the Zoning Map Amendment, as
requested by Troy Dana of Westland Development, representing Fratto Farms, LLC.
application 2025-0013-MA, based on the following findings for approval listed in the Staff
Report dated March 14, 2025.

Findings for Approval:
   1. The proposed zoning map amendment is consistent with goals, objectives, and
       policies of the city's general plan.
   2. The proposed zoning map amendment is compatible with the subject properties
       existing Land Use Designation and harmonious with the overall character of existing
       development in the vicinity of the subject property.
   3. The proposed zoning map amendment will not adversely affect adjacent property.
   4. There are adequate facilities and services intended to serve the subject property,
       including, but not limited to, roadways, parks and recreation facilities, police and fire
       protection, schools, stormwater drainage systems, water supplies, and wastewater
       and refuse collection.

Sample Motion for Modified Positive Recommendation – I move that we forward a positive
recommendation to the City Council for the Zoning Map Amendment, as requested by Troy
Dana of Westland Development, Representing Fratto Farms, LLC., application 2025-0013-
MA, based on the findings for approval listed in the Staff Report dated March 14, 2025 and
as modified by the following additional findings:

    1. (List additional findings for approval…)

Sample Motion for Negative Recommendation – I move that we forward a negative
recommendation to the City Council for denial of the Zoning Map Amendment, as
requested by Troy Dana of Westland Development, representing Fratto Farms, LLC.
application 2025-0013-MA, based on the following findings for denial listed in the Staff
Report dated March 14, 2025.

Findings for Denial:
   1. The proposed zoning map amendment is not consistent with goals, objectives, and
       policies of the city's general plan.
   2. The proposed zoning map amendment is not compatible with the subject properties
       existing Land Use Designation and is not harmonious with the overall character of
       existing development in the vicinity of the subject property.
   3. The proposed zoning map amendment will adversely affect adjacent property.
   4. There are not adequate facilities and services intended to serve the subject
       property, including, but not limited to, roadways, parks and recreation facilities,
       police and fire protection, schools, stormwater drainage systems, water supplies,


Fratto Farms                                                           App. # 2025-0013-MA
Land Use & Zoning Map Amendment                                               2025-0014-MA
                                               8
        and wastewater and refuse collection.




Fratto Farms                                        App. # 2025-0013-MA
Land Use & Zoning Map Amendment                            2025-0014-MA
                                                9
              DEVELOPMENT REVIEW COMMITTEE ACKNOWLEDGEMENT


We, the undersigned, as duly appointed members of the Draper City Development Review
Committee, do acknowledge that the application which provides the subject for this staff
report has been reviewed by the Committee and has been found to be appropriate for
review by the Draper City Planning Commission and/or City Council.

                  Digitally signed by Brien Maxfield                                               ilgniM by Todd A
                  DN: C«.US.                                                              Draper
                                                                                          0N;C«ir8.
                  E>brler.maxtieid@>d rape rulah.gov,
 Brien Maxfield   OeDraper, OU=Public Works -                            Todd A. Draper
                                                                                          CN.ToOdA. Draper
                  Engineering, CN^Bricn Maxfield                                          Dala,3O»0?O
                  Date: 2025.03.20 09:00:24-06W


Draper City Public Works Department                                Draper City Planning Division

                               Dy Odn SuckJey
                   ON C«US. E%d»n biicKl9yi9draperu(us.0>Dr3jMr

Don Buckley
                   City P'm Dcpanrrysni OU«F»re Marshal. CN«Oor)
                   Budtley
                   Jim'      03 go U34,44 Q6t»r

Draper City Fire Department


                    DlgWly s<9iiod by Matthew Symes

 Matthew Symes
                    DN. C«US, E*maa.&yntes^raperutah gov,
                    O^Drepor Oly Corp.. CN.Malthow Symea
                    Oats; 202S.03 20 10:41:3S'0e0C'



Draper City Building Division
                                      EXHIBIT A
                                 DEPARTMENT REVIEWS

REVIEWS ARE NOT MEANT TO BE AN ALL INCLUSIVE LIST OF POSSIBLE COMMENTS OR
CONDITIONS.

Planning Division Review.
   1. No additional comments.



Engineering and Public Works Divisions Review.
   1. The change in zone from residential / agricultural half acre (RA2) to residential /
      multifamily (RM2) which is proposing to change from a gross permitted residential
      density of four residences to the proposed twenty-four residential unit gross density
      represents a significant increase in potential demand on the local streets and
      utilities. The proposed zone permits up to twenty-four residential units with the
      potential of 175 daily trips and 12 peak hour trips on the fronting streets, 12200
      South and 800 East, both local streets in this area. The nearest classified street,
      typically the direction of travel, is 700 East, owned by Utah Department of
      Transportation (UDOT) and is classified as an arterial with the highest vehicle
      capacity. Based on the capacity of the fronting public streets, 12200 South and 800
      East, the increase in density represents additional traffic, but not to the level where
      mitigation measures would be anticipated. Typically, a use where 100 peak hour
      trips are generated triggers the need to have a traffic impact study (TIS) completed
      to analyze mitigation requirements. The size of the subject parcel and the potential
      number of trips generated from a parcel of this size does not automatically trigger a
      TIS. There are no public frontage improvements on either fronting public streets
      and will be a requirement of any site development.

   2. Connectivity with the subject parcel to public rights-of-way could be to both 12200
      South and 800 East, local streets. Access onto either fronting street would be
      permitted potentially by a driveway or private street. Accesses are be required to
      meet Draper City standards as outlined in our Master Transportation Plan and city
      code. Any development will need to be evaluated for access location due to the
      required spacing from the intersection of 800 East and 12200 South. Access is
      evaluated at the time of a site plan or subdivision application.

   3. There are no existing storm drainage facilities fronting the subject parcel. However,
      there are storm drainage facilities in the area, but there is no guarantee that those
      facilities are feasible to connect to from the existing site. Any future site drainage
      will be required to be addressed with any subdivision or site plan application and
      shall comply with the provisions of the development requirements within the
       Draper City Municipal Code.

   4. Sanitary sewer facilities will be provided by Jordan Basin Improvement District. Any
      subdivision or site plan application will require a commitment to serve from the
      sewer district that facilities are adequate to provide service for the proposed uses.

   5. Drinking water is provided by WaterPro to the subject parcel. Any subdivision or
      site plan application will require a commitment to serve from WaterPro that facilities
      are adequate to provide service for the proposed uses.

Building Division Review.
   1. No additional comments.



Fire Division Review.
   1. No additional comments.



Legal Division Review.
   1. No additional comments.



GIS Division Review.
   1. No additional comments.
                                    EXHIBIT B
                                LEGAL DESCRIPTION


LOTS 1 & 8 BLK 23 DRAPERVILLE
  EXHIBIT C
VICINITY MAP
 EXHIBIT D
AERIAL MAP
  EXHIBIT E
LAND USE MAP
 EXHIBIT F
ZONING MAP
                    EXHIBIT G
APPLICANT’S RESPONSES – LAND USE MAP AMENDMENT
                            Fratto Farms Land Use Map Amendment



                                                                                January 16, 2025

To whom it may concern;

We own the approximately 2 acres located on 791 E and 12200 S. We are requesting a Land Use
Map Amendment from Low Medium Density to High Density. This use would allow for RM2
zoning to construct higher density homes in an area where development and additional higher
density projects have been built and will be built in the future. We feel the use would be
harmonious with the surrounding areas as our border to the west is adjacent to C3 commercial
zone, our border to the south is across the street from C3 commercial zone, our border to the
east is alongside 800 E, our border to the north is adjacent to residential. This corner property
has roadways for access along 12200 S and 800 E and will be more than sufficient to enter and
exit the property. All utilities are in both 12200 S and 800 E and will be able to serve the new
zoning and future development.



In speaking with other property owners, who most of them use their properties as rental
homes, there are a few other parcels that would like to do multi family in the future as well and
would need to change Land Use consistent with this request. The area already has land use
request that have been granted within a block to the north and 2 blocks to the east, southeast
and also 3 blocks to the west. We believe this land use request and future development is
consistent with the General Plan in the surrounding area along 700 E being highly commercial
and with being surrounded by multifamily in the area.



We ask that you kindly consider this request and understand that the request is in line with the
General Plan and future growth development.
                                    Land Use Map




      Low-Medium Density
                                                                  High Density




                                                                        Medium Density

                                                                                         High Density




                                                             800 East
                                                  property



                                          12200 South


               High Density

                              Neighborhood Commercial




Subject property is surrounded by Neighborhood Commercial and Medium Density with High
Density within 400 ft and .25 miles. Proposing Land Use change from Medium Density of 4
units to the acre to High Density of 8-12 units per acre.
                   EXHIBIT H
APPLICANT’S RESPONSES – ZONING MAP AMENDMENT
                                    Fratto Farms Zone Change



                                                                                  January 16, 2025

To whom it may concern;

We own the approximately 2 acres located on 791 E and 12200 S. We are requesting a zone
change from RA2 to RM2. This zoning would allow for up to 24 units to construct townhomes in
an area where development and additional multi family projects have been built and will be
built in the future. We feel the zoning would be harmonious with the surrounding areas as our
border to the west is adjacent to C3 commercial zone, our border to the south is across the
street from C3 commercial zone, our border to the east is alongside 800 E, our border to the
north is adjacent to residential. This corner property has roadways for access along 12200 S and
800 E and will be more than sufficient to enter and exit the property. All utilities are in both
12200 S and 800 E and will be able to serve the new zoning and future development.



In speaking with other property owners, who most of them use their properties as rental
homes, there are a few other parcels that would like to do multi family in the future as well.
The area already has townhomes less than a block to the north and 2 blocks to the east,
southeast and also 3 blocks to the west. We believe this zoning and future development is
consistent with the General Plan in the surrounding area along 700 E being highly commercial
and with being surrounded by multifamily in the area.



We ask that you kindly consider this request and understand that the request is in line with the
General Plan and future growth development, but will also respect the open feel of Draper with
a large park on the corner and a tribute to the old family farm that gives Draper its great history.
                                      Zoning Map



                                            RA1
                                            222
                                                                RM2
                                                                            RM1


                                           RA2
                                           222




                                                     800 East
                                                                              RM2
                                           Subject
                                          Property

                                       12200 S.

               OR
              Zone
                                 CN




The subject property is proposing RM2 Zone, changing from RA2. The subject property is
adjacent to Neighborhood Commercial and Residential Zones. The subject property is located
on the corner of a Commercial Zones and Residential Zones. The residential RA2 Zone is a
minimum of 20,000 sf lots and the RM2 zone is 8-12 units per acre. RM2 Zone is located on 4
projects within 400 ft and .25 miles from the Subject Property along with OR Zone which
allowed for 12 units to the acre.
