                                 Development Review Committee
                                     1020 East Pioneer Road
                                       Draper, UT 84020
                                          February 4, 2025

To:                 Draper City Planning Commission
                    Business Date: February 13, 2025

From:               Development Review Committee

Prepared By: Nick Whittaker, MCMP, Planner II
             Planning Division
             Community Development Department
             801-576-6522, Nick.Whittaker@draperutah.gov

Re:      Danner I-ADU– Deviation Request
         Application No.: 2024-0427-VAR
         Applicants:       Jayme Kogel & Jean Weatherwax
         Project Location: 268 E. Steep Mountain Dr.
         Current Zoning: R3 (Single Family Residential) Zone,
         Acreage:          Approximately 0.14 Acres (6,098 ft2)
         Request:          Request for approval of a Deviation from strict compliance with
                           the geographical restrictions for Internal Accessory Dwelling Units
                           (I-ADU’s).



BACKGROUND AND SUMMARY

This application is a request for approval of a Deviation from strict compliance with the
geographical restrictions for I-ADU’s for approximately 0.14 acres located on the south side
of Steep Mountain Dr. at approximately 268 E. Steep Mountain Dr. (Exhibit B and C). The
property is currently zoned R3. The applicant is requesting the Deviation be approved to
allow for the creation of an I-ADU in the basement of the existing single-family dwelling.

The subject property is lot 127 of the Centennial Heights Subdivision - Plat C. A single-family
dwelling was built on the property in 1998. A basement finish and a basement walk out
were permitted in 2023. The property is located within a mapped area of the City where I-
ADU’s are prohibited (Exhibit F). The applicant has submitted a separate application for the
creation of an I-ADU which is pending approval of this deviation request.




Kogel I-ADU                                                         App. # 2024-0427-VAR
Deviation Request                                1
ANALYSIS

General Plan and Zoning.

 Table 1              General Plan and Zoning Designations                        Exhibit
 Existing Land Use    Residential Medium Density                                  Exhibit D
 Current Zoning       R3                                                          Exhibit E
 Adjacent Zoning
    East              R3
    West              R3
    North             R3
    South             R3

The Residential Medium Density land use designation is characterized as follows:




According to the Draper City Municipal Code (DCMC) Section 9-8-20(B)(3) the purpose of
the R3 zone is to “permit medium density residential development without special
mitigation requirements. This zone is intended to provide incentives to foster residential



Kogel I-ADU                                                        App. # 2024-0427-VAR
Deviation Request                             2
development with little impact on its surroundings and on municipal services, and to
generally preserve the semirural character called for in the density element of the general
plan.”

Site Plan Layout. A site plan, elevation photos, and floor plans for the proposed I-ADU are
provided as Exhibits G, H and I. The entrance to the I-ADU will be located on the east side
where there is a separate walk out basement entrance. Staff reviewed the proposed plans
submitted for the creation of the I-ADU and has determined that they comply with all other
applicable requirements of DCMC chapter 9-31 outside of the geographical restrictions for
which this deviation is being sought.

The property is approximately 6,098 ft2 in size which surpasses the 6,000 ft2 minimum
needed to satisfy the size requirement for approval of the deviation as described in section
9-31-055(A) of the DCMC. The subject property does not contain a Detached Accessory
Dwelling Unit (D-ADU).

Parking. The property does not currently have the two (2) necessary off-street parking stalls
for use by the occupants of the proposed I-ADU. However, the proposed location of the
two (2) required off-street parking stalls for use by the occupants of the I-ADU are
illustrated in the attached site plan (Exhibit G). These stalls will be established in
conjunction with the I-ADU application through a separate encroachment permit from the
Engineering Division.

The site plan shows where the two (2) proposed off-street parking stalls and a second
driveway will be constructed on the east side of the subject property. The concrete parking
pad will measure eighteen feet (18’) in width and eighteen feet (18’) in length. A driveway
ten feet (10’) in length and eighteen feet (18’) in width will be required to provide access to
the parking pad from Randolph Circle as the property line on the east side of the property
is located approximately ten feet (10’) behind the curb. The proposed location of the two (2)
stalls will not impede the required parking for the main single-family dwelling.

Installation of the proposed parking stalls will require modifications to existing retaining
walls and additional permits might also be required, depending on the height of the new
retaining wall(s). An encroachment permit from the Engineering Division will be required
for installation of the second driveway.

Criteria For Approval.
The criteria for review and potential approval of a Deviation request for an I-ADU is found
in Section 9-31-055 of the DCMC. This section depicts the standard of review for such
requests as:

    A. Deviation Authorized: A deviation from strict compliance with the prohibition of I-
       ADUs on properties located within the areas identified on the I-ADU map in Exhibit A



Kogel I-ADU                                                         App. # 2024-0427-VAR
Deviation Request                              3
         of this chapter may be approved by the planning commission if all of the following
         criteria are met and the planning commission finds that:
         1. The lot or parcel on which the primary dwelling is located is at least six thousand
             square feet (6,000 ft²);
         2. No D-ADU exists on the property;
         3. The proposed I-ADU meets all of the requirements of sections 9-31-030 and 9-
             31-045, including other applicable requirements of this chapter; and
         4. At least two (2) parking stalls meeting the requirements of 9-31-045(B)(2) are
             provided for use by occupants of the I-ADU.

The requirements of Section 9-31-30 of the DCMC are:

    A. An ADU shall not be rented or leased or offered for rent or lease unless the owner
        of record possesses a valid ADU Permit.
    B. D-ADUs shall not be permitted for any property containing an I-ADU. As a condition
        of approval for an application for a new D-ADU the owner of record shall agree to
        waive any right to create an I-ADU on the same property unless the D-ADU is first
        removed from the property. This condition shall be included in the recorded notice
        of accessory dwelling unit required by section 9-31-060 of this chapter.
    C. Primary dwellings are not permitted to contain more than one I-ADU. I-ADUs are not
        permitted within a D-ADU or other detached structure.
    D. I-ADUs shall not be permitted in single-family residential dwellings located on lots
        or parcels that are six-thousand square feet (6,000 ft²) or less in size.
    E. I-ADUs are not permitted within mobile homes.
    F. I-ADUs are not permitted within a primary dwelling unit serviced by a failing septic
        system.
    G. Separate utility meters may not be installed for any I-ADU or D-ADU.
    H. An I-ADU shall not be rented or leased for a time period of less than thirty (30)
        consecutive days. Only one rental agreement or lease shall be in effect at any one
        time.
    I. No ADU or dwelling associated with an ADU may be separately rented, leased, hired
        or loaned unless the owner of record occupies either the dwelling or the ADU as
        their primary residence.
    J. An ADU Permit issued by the zoning administrator shall be required for the
        development and use of any ADU and shall only be issued once all regulations and
        standards of this section and sections 9-31-040 or 9-31-045 as applicable to the
        specific type of ADU are met. The ADU Permit shall be subject to the application and
        review procedures, including the annual renewal requirements and procedures of
        section 9-5-210. (Ord. 1132, 2-17-2015; amd. Ord. 1499, 9-21-2021; Ord. 1626, 11-12-
        2024)

The requirements of Section 9-31-45 of the DCMC are:




Kogel I-ADU                                                          App. # 2024-0427-VAR
Deviation Request                               4
    A. Existing Structure: An I-ADU shall be contained within the existing footprint of the
       primary dwelling. Second kitchens within the primary dwelling's footprint are not
       considered an I-ADU and are subject to requirements found in chapter 30 of this
       title. An existing second kitchen located within a primary dwelling can be converted
       as part of an application for the creation of an I-ADU in compliance with all other
       standards for I-ADUs listed in this chapter.
    B. Conditions: An I-ADU shall comply with the applicable requirements of section 9-31-
       030 and with all of the following conditions:
       1. Only one I-ADU shall be allowed per lot or parcel.
       2. At least one additional parking stall above the minimum required for the primary
            dwelling shall be provided on site and be reserved for exclusive use by
            occupants of the I-ADU. The parking stall(s) provided for use of the occupants of
            the I-ADU may not be located in tandem with parking stalls designed to serve the
            primary dwelling and shall be accessible from the street by a driveway.
            Driveways must conform to all requirements of section 9-10-075 and other
            applicable requirements of this title. Parking stalls shall be constructed of
            concrete or asphalt and shall comply with the applicable requirements of
            sections 9-25-070 and 9-25-080.
       3. If an I-ADU is created within a garage or carport attached to the primary
            dwelling, the parking spaces contained within the garage or carport that are
            removed shall be replaced in accordance with current parking and access
            standards.
       4. The I-ADU shall comply with all applicable building, health and fire codes in
            effect at the time the I-ADU is constructed, created or subsequently remodeled.
            The owner of record shall be responsible to ensure that all required building
            permits and other permits are obtained for the creation of an I-ADU.
       5. In accommodating an I-ADU within the primary dwelling, the exterior of the
            primary dwelling may not be changed or altered in a manner that would alter
            the appearance of the primary dwelling from that of a single-family dwelling.
            (Ord. 1499, 9-21-2021)

The proposed site plan, proposed floor plans, and elevation photos provided with this
Deviation application have been reviewed by staff and have been determined to comply
with the criteria necessary for approval of a deviation from strict compliance with the
geographical restrictions for I-ADU’s.



REVIEWS

Planning Division Review. The Draper City Planning Division has completed their review of
the Deviation Request. Comments from this division, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Engineering and Public Works Divisions Review. The Draper City Engineering and Public



Kogel I-ADU                                                        App. # 2024-0427-VAR
Deviation Request                             5
Works Divisions have completed their reviews of the Deviation Request. Comments from
these divisions, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Building Division Review. The Draper City Building Division has completed their review of
the Deviation Request. Comments from this division, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Fire Division Review. The Draper City Fire Marshal has completed his review of the
Deviation Request. Comments from this division, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Noticing. Notice has been properly issued in the manner outlined in the City and State
Codes.



STAFF RECOMMENDATION

Staff finds that the application complies with the DCMC and recommends that the Planning
Commission review the request, and approve the application based on the criteria and
findings for approval, as listed within the staff report.

If the Planning Commission decides to approve the request, staff recommends they include
the following conditions of approval:

         1.         That all requirements of the Draper City Engineering, Public Works, Building,
                    Planning, and Fire Divisions are satisfied throughout the development of the
                    site and the construction of all buildings on the site, including permitting.



MODEL MOTIONS

Sample Motion for Approval – I move that we approve the Deviation request from strict
compliance with the geographical restrictions for I-ADU’s, as requested by Jayme Kogel and
Jean Weatherwax, application 2024-0427-VAR based on the following findings, and the
conditions and criteria for approval as listed in the Staff Report dated January 10, 2025.

Findings for Approval:

    1. The lot or parcel on which the primary dwelling is located is at least six thousand
       square feet (6,000 ft²);
    2. No D-ADU exists on the property;
    3. The proposed I-ADU can meet all of the requirements of sections 9-31-030 and 9-31-
       045, including other applicable requirements of this chapter before issuance of an
       ADU permit; and
    4. At least two (2) parking stalls meeting the requirements of 9-31-045(B)(2) are



Kogel I-ADU                                                             App. # 2024-0427-VAR
Deviation Request                                  6
         provided for use by occupants of the I-ADU.




Kogel I-ADU                                            App. # 2024-0427-VAR
Deviation Request                             7
                  DEVELOPMENT REVIEW COMMITTEE ACKNOWLEDGEMENT


We, the undersigned, as duly appointed members of the Draper City Development Review
Committee, do acknowledge that the application which provides the subject for this staff
report has been reviewed by the Committee and has been found to be appropriate for
review by the Draper City Planning Commission and/or City Council.

                                                                                   DjgrQDy         by Todd A
                                                                                   DradOf
                       DiQiially sigtnoQ by Bngn UaxhckI
                       DN: C.US-                                                   E»lcda Srapsr@drapet.ui.uo.
                       6»Drien.mai<tield@ciraperi;iah gov,        Todd A. Draper
 Brien Maxfield 0-Draper, OU»Pubiic Works -
                                                                                   O^DroperC'ty Planning,
                                                                                   CN.TotMA. Drapor
                                                                                   Oalc:202SJ92.0A
                       Engineering, CN-Brien Maxflek)                              14flV4«J}r0C'
                       Oate:g02S,02,0S 17:g1:)9 07'00'


Draper City Public Works Department                          Draper City Planning Division




Draper City Fire Department                                   fap^City'^.egal Counsel



Draper   ^ty<^ji^i^            Division
                                     EXHIBIT A
                                DEPARTMENT REVIEWS

REVIEWS ARE NOT MEANT TO BE AN ALL-INCLUSIVE LIST OF POSSIBLE COMMENTS OR
CONDITIONS.



Planning Division Review.
   1. The property is over the 6,000 ft2 threshold, does not already contain an I-ADU, or a
      D-ADU and can provide the 2 required off street parking stalls required for approval
      of a deviation from the prohibition against I-ADUs. The proposed I-ADU will comply
      with all other applicable requirements of DCMC Sections 9-31-030 and 9-31-045.



Engineering and Public Works Divisions Review.
   1. No additional Comments.



Building Division Review.
   1. No additional comments.



Fire Division Review.
   1. No additional comments.
  EXHIBIT B
VICINITY MAP
EXHIBIT C
ARIEL MAP
  EXHIBIT D
LAND USE MAP
 EXHIBIT E
ZONING MAP
       EXHIBIT F
I-ADU RESTRICTION MAP
EXHIBIT G
SITE PLAN
         EXHIBIT H
EXTERIOR ELEVATION PHOTOS
  EXHIBIT I
FLOOR PLANS
        EXHIBIT J
APPLICANT REQUEST LETTER
Hi there,

Our names are Jayme Kogel and Jean Weatherwax, and we reside at 268 E Steep Mountain
Drive.

For context, our parents live on opposite sides of the country—Jayme’s family resides in
Oregon, while Jean’s family is in South Carolina.

When we purchased our home, we prioritized a floor plan that could accommodate our unique
family circumstances. Specifically, Jean’s mother has a disability that requires strict avoidance
of food contamination, as even minimal exposure poses a serious health risk, including seizures.
To ensure her safety and comfort during extended visits, we thoughtfully built out the
basement to include a small second kitchen where she could prepare her meals.

Additionally, while we love our families very much, we value maintaining a degree of separation
during their stays. For this reason, we included a private entrance to the basement. The
basement is only separated from the main house by a door at the stairwell, which does not
have a lock on it. We understand that adding a lock to this door would be required for
compliance, and we are happy to make this adjustment if needed.

Thank you for your time and consideration. Please let us know if you require any additional
information.

Best regards,
Jayme Kogel & Jean Weatherwax

——————

9-31-055: DEVIATIONS:

A. Deviation Authorized: The Planning Commission may approve a deviation from strict
compliance with the geographical restrictions of the I-ADU map in Exhibit A of this chapter
upon finding that:

1. The lot or parcel on which the primary dwelling is located is at least six thousand square feet
(6,000 ft²); Our parcel is 6098 ft²

2. No D-ADU exists on the property; No external structures

3. The proposed I-ADU meets all of the requirements of sections 9-31-030 and 9-31-045,
including other applicable requirements of this chapter; and…. We are compliant with the
above requirements - please let me know if you need more information on this
4. At least two (2) parking stalls meeting the requirements of 9-31-045(B)(2) are provided for
use by occupants of the I-ADU. (Ord. 1499, 9-21-2021; amd. Ord. 1626, 11-12-2024)
Please see lot plans for this - (Context: This wont actually be needed in our current living
situation as we will have 2 vehicles max at most times). I have included images for reference.

Driveway is 24 ft wide and can fit three cars side by side - we can widen to 30 feet and extend
out further driveway space angled to accommodate more parking if needed.
Also, there are multiple options for 8 x 18ft parking next to the walkout if needed.

Additional Details:

Basement is 2 bedrooms, office, 1 bathroom, living room, storage closet and small kitchen.
(1300 sf)

Main floor is 3 bedrooms, 2 bathrooms, living room and kitchen. (1250s sf)
