MINUTES OF THE DRAPER CITY COUNCIL MEETING HELD ON TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER
2, 2025, IN THE DRAPER CITY COUNCIL CHAMBERS, 1020 EAST PIONEER ROAD,
DRAPER, UTAH

PRESENT:     Mayor Troy K. Walker, and Councilmembers Mike Green, Bryn Heather
             Johnson, Tasha Lowery, Fred Lowry, and Marsha Vawdrey
EXCUSED:
STAFF:       Mike Barker, City Manager; Scott Cooley, City Engineer and Public Works
             Director; Spencer DuShane, Assistant City Attorney; Pat Evans, Police
             Captain; Jennifer Jastremsky, Community Development Director; Linda
             Peterson, Communications Director; Nicole Smedley, City Recorder;
             Clint Smith, Fire Chief; Pam Stagg, Interim Human Resource Director;
             Jake Sorensen, Network Manager; David Wilks, Community Events
             Manager; Todd Taylor, Planner; Brien Maxfield, Engineering
             Development Manager; and John Vuyk, Finance Director
______________________________________________________________________________________

Study Session

   Discussion: Draper Days Recap
   Community Events Manager David Wilks reported that 43,100 people attended
   Draper Days at Draper City Park over three days. He stated that attendance was
   lower than in 2024, possibly due to rain. He further reported that feedback
   indicated the Horse Pull in Draper was the best attended in the State of Utah
   and noted an increase in sponsorship compared to 2024.

   Councilmember F. Lowry stated that feedback received indicated the 2025
   parade was the best yet. Discussion followed regarding ways to increase
   attendance among Draper City residents. Although resident attendance was
   already high, the Council expressed that as Draper City taxpayers fund the
   event, they would like residents to be the primary attendees.

   Fire Chief Clint Smith introduced new Emergency Management Coordinator
   Nick Robel.

   Discussion: 13400 Connection
   City Engineer/Public Works Director Scott Cooley stated that staff had made
   significant progress on Transportation Master Plan projects over the last decade.


                                                                            1|Page
        Draper City Council DRAFT Meeting Minutes – September 2, 2025
He reported that staff proposed installing a storm drain line at 13400 South and
paving a currently dirt road connecting 1300 East and Fort Street.
A majority of the Council expressed support for a minimal connection to improve
roadway connectivity and the storm drain system. Councilmember Johnson
stated that she would like a sidewalk on at least one side of 13400 South to
provide safe access for children walking to school.

Council/Manager Reports
Road Cross Section Reduction
City Engineer/Public Works Director Scott Cooley stated that recent legislation
required cities to reduce the size of street cross sections. The Council and staff
discussed park strip widths and road cross section size. A majority of the Council
expressed support for reducing local road cross sections from 60 feet to 53 feet.

City Property Discussion
Mayor Walker spoke of the potential for a museum on City-owned land.
Councilmember T. Lowery stated that the property had been acquired for civic
use and expressed that the City needed more than a museum on the site. Mayor
Walker suggested that the Council meet together to determine their priorities
before meeting with the community member interested in developing a museum.
A majority of the Council expressed support for scheduling a study session
discussion in October 2025.

Draper Days Attendance
Councilmember T. Lowery stated that a priority for Draper Days was to ensure
that at least 50% of attendees were Draper residents. Councilmember Vawdrey
suggested recruiting additional resident volunteers, noting that families of
volunteers would likely attend. Councilmember Johnson stated that Draper Days
had developed a reputation as a successful event and that word had spread to
other communities.

Mercer Hollow Boulder Issue
City Engineer/Public Works Director Scott Cooley provided an update regarding
boulders being discarded into Mercer Hollow by a contractor. He stated that staff
contacted the contractor and informed them that the boulders could not be
discarded in that area and would need to be removed. He reported that the
contractor stated the boulders were not intentionally discarded there. Mr. Cooley
stated that staff would continue to monitor the construction site and would work
internally to determine the necessary next steps.

                                                                         2|Page
   City Newsletter Distribution Costs
   City Manager Mike Barker reported that the cost to print and distribute a printed
   newsletter continued to increase, with the current cost at $55,000 for six issues.
   Communications Director Linda Peterson suggested distributing a survey to
   gauge resident interest in email versus print newsletters. She further mentioned
   the option of providing an electronic newsletter with limited printed copies
   distributed to locations such as senior centers and the library.

   Councilmember T. Lowery suggested offering residents the ability to opt-in to
   continue receiving a printed copy if desired. Councilmember F. Lowry inquired
   whether an electronic newsletter could be distributed and its open rate
   measured. Councilmember Green asked if reducing the printed size would lower
   the overall cost. Staff will do more research and report back.

   Council/Committee Report – Tree Committee
   Councilmember Johnson reported on a meeting of the Tree Committee held that
   morning. She stated that the Committee discussed providing guidelines for
   when existing sycamore trees were removed. Community Development Director
   Jen Jastremsky stated that the City maintained a list of tree species residents
   were permitted to plant in park strips, which could be added to the City website
   following Council approval.

   Pickleball Court Noise and Lighting Concerns
   Councilmember T. Lowery said a resident had complained about noise from
   pickleball courts close to property lines. Councilmember T. Lowery said she
   knew other cities had enacted regulations for pickleball lighting and hours of
   use. A majority of the Council appeared to support directing staff to look into
   possible regulations. Mayor Walker suggested the existing noise ordinance
   would apply. Ms. Jastremsky said existing lighting ordinance requirements
   would also apply.

Business Session

1. Call to Order by Mayor Troy K. Walker

2. Pledge of Allegiance by Fire Chief Clint Smith

3. Public Comments


                                                                            3|Page
  Joel Wright, Draper resident, thanked the Council for their work and stated his
  belief that Draper was a well-run city. He stated that the Council had taken risks
  and shown courage in making decisions, particularly regarding open space on the
  hillside. He further stated that Mercer Mountain Estates had the right to build on
  their property, operating within the public easement to construct their road.
  However, he stated that discarding boulders into Mercer Hollow had caused
  ecological damage and made trails unsafe, ultimately resulting in closures. He
  stated that he did not believe the act was unintentional and expressed that those
  responsible should be required to restore the trail by no later than June 1, 2026.

4. Consent Items
   4.a August 19, 2025 City Council Meeting Minutes
   4.b Resolution #25-43 appointing David Zwicky to Draper City Tree Committee
   4.c Resolution #25-45 approving the Second Amendment to the Water Purchase
       Agreement between Draper City and Jordan Valley Water Conservancy
       District

       Councilmember Vawdrey moved to approve the Consent Agenda.
       Councilmember T. Lowery seconded the motion.

       A roll call vote was taken. The motion passed unanimously.
                                         Yes No      Absent
       Councilmember Green                 X
       Councilmember Johnson               X
       Councilmember T. Lowery             X
       Councilmember F. Lowry              X
       Councilmember Vawdrey               X

5. Items for Council Consideration
   5.a Public Hearing: Ordinance #1670 amending the text of the Draper City
       General Plan to add the Draper FrontRunner (Vista), Kimballs Lane, and
       Crescent View Station Area Plans (SAPs)
       Planner Todd Taylor presented proposed Ordinance #1670, which would
       amend the General Plan to add the Draper FrontRunner (Vista), Kimballs
       Lane, and Crescent View Station Area Plans (SAPs). He explained the State
       requirement to adopt the SAPs and have them certified by the Wasatch Front
       Regional Council (WFRC) by the end of the year, and provided an overview of
       the engagement process to date.



                                                                           4|Page
Mr. Taylor emphasized that the SAPs represented preferred concepts and
potential ways development could occur, noting that actual development
would be subject to applications and entitlements between property owners
and the City.

He stated that guiding principles for the Vista SAP included activating the
public realm, building a new east-west pedestrian connection, incorporating
small-scale retail, creating a green space network, and integrating adjacent
uses to the station area. He noted that the Vista SAP also suggested a
potential realignment of Vista Station Boulevard north of the Vista Station.

Mr. Taylor stated that guiding principles for the Kimballs Lane SAP included
managing future transitions in existing agricultural lands, better utilizing
UTA-owned land to address desired station area planning outcomes,
improving Porter Rockwell Trail access and wayfinding, considering safe
routes to school and a new multi-use path along Kimballs Lane, filling
sidewalk and bike lane gaps on Kimballs Lane and 700 East, and planning for
redevelopment of existing neighborhoods.

The Council reviewed guiding principles for the Crescent View SAP, which
included neighborhood stabilization, allowing future opportunities at the
Harmons Grocery Store site, and improvements to 11400 South.

Mr. Taylor reported that the Planning Commission reviewed the proposed
General Plan amendment and forwarded a positive recommendation. In
response to a question from Councilmember F. Lowry, Mayor Walker stated
that an owner-occupied requirement for high-density residential in the
Kimballs Lane SAP would be addressed through a development agreement
rather than within the SAP itself. He stated that density levels would be based
on the SAP preferred concept.

Councilmember T. Lowery expressed appreciation for the realignment
option in the Kimballs Lane SAP and asked how the Council could move
forward with implementation. Mr. Taylor suggested discussions with UDOT
and UTA to evaluate feasibility and noted that public feedback indicated
support for realignment. Mayor Walker expressed that realignment should
be a top priority. Councilmember T. Lowery stated that she believed the State
needed to participate in ensuring safety in the station areas.



                                                                     5|Page
    Mayor Walker opened a public hearing.

    Paxton Guymon, General Counsel with EDGEhomes, stated that as a
    property holder in the Kimballs Lane Station Area, EDGEhomes agreed it was
    time to partner with the City and encourage the State to contribute funding.
    He stated that EDGEhomes was already in conversations with State housing
    officials and expressed a desire to work with the City to move the project
    forward. He emphasized that EDGEhomes already had a Development
    Agreement in place that would not be superseded by the SAP. He further
    stated that EDGEhomes did not want its project to feel like a high-density
    development and would work with the City to create a project the community
    could be proud of.

    Mayor Walker closed the public hearing.

    Councilmember T. Lowery emphasized the City did not have control over
    UDOT roads within the station areas. Mayor Walker said he believed SAPs
    represented the biggest erosion of city government land-use authority by the
    State of Utah. He recognized EDGEhomes for presenting a deed-restricted
    lower-density project.

    Councilmember Green moved to approve                   Ordinance     #1670.
    Councilmember Johnson seconded the motion.

    A roll call vote was taken. The motion passed unanimously.
                                      Yes No      Absent
    Councilmember Green                 X
    Councilmember Johnson               X
    Councilmember T. Lowery             X
    Councilmember F. Lowry              X
    Councilmember Vawdrey               X

5.b Public Hearing: Ordinance #1671 approving a Development Agreement
    Amendment for approximately 1.3 acres of City-owned property located at
    approximately 12742 S. Moose Hollow Drive and 12761 Costanza Way,
    otherwise known as the Warhorse Ranch Development Agreement First
    Amendment
    Planner Todd Taylor showed the subject property on a map and explained
    the proposed amendment would allow for conveyance of identified City-

                                                                       6|Page
      owned properties, retain the detention basin and Draper Canal Trail
      portions, and retain access easements over conveyed property.

      Councilmember Johnson asked why the property was proposed for
      conveyance instead of purchase. Mr. Taylor said the proposed conveyance
      would resolve access issues with quasi-City rights-of-way that staff
      recommended the City not retain. Staff explained the property was acquired
      by the City through dedication, and the City did not typically sell property
      acquired in that manner.

      Mayor Walker opened a public hearing, and closed the public hearing seeing
      no one come forward.

      Councilmember Green moved to approve                    Ordinance     #1671.
      Councilmember Vawdrey seconded the motion.

      A roll call vote was taken. The motion passed unanimously.
                                        Yes No      Absent
      Councilmember Green                 X
      Councilmember Johnson               X
      Councilmember T. Lowery             X
      Councilmember F. Lowry              X
      Councilmember Vawdrey               X

5.c   Public Hearing: Ordinance #1672 amending the text of the Land Use and
      Development Code of the Draper City Municipal Code relating to Preschool,
      Limited Use
      Community Development Director Jen Jastremsky said the proposed
      amendment would align City Code with State rules regarding Preschool,
      Limited Use for the number of children allowed per number of caregivers.
      She stated that up to eight children would be allowed with one care giver and
      up to sixteen with two care givers (increased from ten).

      Mayor Walker opened a public hearing.

      Brie Dance, Draper resident, spoke in favor of Miss Jen’s Sunshine Preschool.

      Jennifer Oneil, Draper resident, said she was one of the few in-house
      preschool providers in Draper, and was in favor of the proposed change. Ms.

                                                                          7|Page
    Oneil thanked her local representative and the City Manager for taking the
    time to meet with her.

    James Jensen, Draper resident, spoke in favor of Miss Jen’s Sunshine
    Preschool. He said he was in favor of the proposed changes, and was grateful
    for the smaller in-home preschool programs.

    Mayor Walker closed the public hearing.

    Responding to questions from the Council, Ms. Jastremsky said the
    conditional use permit process required submission of a pick-up/drop-off
    plan for evaluation.

    Councilmember Green moved to approve                   Ordinance     #1672.
    Councilmember Johnson seconded the motion.

    A roll call vote was taken. The motion passed unanimously.
                                      Yes No      Absent
    Councilmember Green                 X
    Councilmember Johnson               X
    Councilmember T. Lowery             X
    Councilmember F. Lowry              X
    Councilmember Vawdrey               X

5.d Public Hearing: Ordinance #1673 approving the Big Willow Creek 6th
    Development Agreement Amendment for approximately 9.3 acres of
    property located at approximately 11670 S. Wildrye Field Way with Draper
    City
    Planner Maryann Pickering displayed the subject property on a map and
    explained that the proposed amendment to the Big Willow Creek
    Development Agreement would modify the minimum size of two lots in
    Phase 5. She stated that the original Development Agreement required
    20,000-square-foot lots along Big Willow Creek, but a cul-de-sac was now
    needed due to the approved layout of Jenson Farms to the south. She noted
    that an easement had also been dedicated for a trail and utilities that had
    not originally been anticipated. Ms. Pickering emphasized that only two lots
    would be reduced to less than 20,000 square feet and reported that the
    Planning Commission had reviewed the proposal and forwarded a positive
    recommendation.

                                                                       8|Page
      Mayor Walker opened a public hearing, and closed the public hearing seeing
      no one come forward.

      Councilmember Vawdrey moved to approve                Ordinance    #1673.
      Councilmember F. Lowry seconded the motion.

      A roll call vote was taken. The motion passed unanimously.
                                        Yes No      Absent
      Councilmember Green               X
      Councilmember Johnson             X
      Councilmember T. Lowery           X
      Councilmember F. Lowry            X
      Councilmember Vawdrey             X

5.e   Public Hearing: Ordinances #1674 and #1675 amending the Land Use Map
      for 0.27 acres from Open Space/Parks to Community Commercial and an
      ordinance amending the Zoning Map for the same property from RA2
      (Residential Agricultural) to CG (General Commercial), located at 687 W.
      12300 S., known as the City-Initiated Concord Properties Land Use and
      Zoning Map Amendment
      Planner Todd Draper displayed an aerial view of the subject property on a
      map and explained the proposal to amend the Land Use Map and rezone
      the property to match adjacent property. He stated that the Planning
      Commission had reviewed the proposed ordinances and forwarded a
      positive recommendation.

      Mayor Walker opened a public hearing, and closed the public hearing seeing
      no one come forward.

      Councilmember F. Lowry moved to approve Ordinances #1674 and #1675.
      Councilmember Johnson seconded the motion.

      A roll call vote was taken. The motion passed unanimously.
                                        Yes No      Absent
      Councilmember Green                 X
      Councilmember Johnson               X
      Councilmember T. Lowery             X
      Councilmember F. Lowry              X
      Councilmember Vawdrey               X

                                                                        9|Page
6. Action Items
   6.a Resolution #25-44 granting a Quit Claim Deed releasing interest in a portion
       of the Draper Canal Alignment at 1393 E. Pioneer Road
       Engineering Development Manager Brien Maxfield stated that Draper had
       historically been served by three canals. He explained that the Draper Canal
       no longer carried irrigation water and that easements and interests were
       transferred from the Draper Irrigation Company to the City in 2001. He
       reported that demolition and removal of any canal remnants had been
       approved for Harmony Hills in 2016, and that the new owners of the
       Harmony Hills property had requested the City release its interest in the
       Draper Canal alignment at 1393 East Pioneer Road.

        Councilmember Johnson moved to approve                Resolution     #25-44.
        Councilmember Vawdrey seconded the motion.

       A roll call vote was taken. The motion passed unanimously.
                                         Yes No      Absent
       Councilmember Green                 X
       Councilmember Johnson               X
       Councilmember T. Lowery             X
       Councilmember F. Lowry              X
       Councilmember Vawdrey               X

7. Adjournment
   Councilmember Green moved to adjourn the meeting. Councilmember T. Lowery
   seconded the motion, which passed by unanimous vote.

   The meeting adjourned at 7:56 pm.




                                                                           10 | P a g e
