                          DRAPER CITY PUBLIC WORKS - ENGINEERING
                                1020 E. Pioneer Rd. Draper, UT 84020




2025 Standard Details Update – Resolution # 25-71

Periodically, Draper City needs to update its technical specifications and standard
drawings due to improvements in construction methodology, materials
improvements, availability of products, or other modifications to improve long-term
maintenance and operation of city’s capital improvements. Public Works is
presenting updated standard details, including updated specifications by reference
on many of the standard details. Updates for these standards were received by
Parks & Recreation and Public Works. The city’s standard details are for use for any
city project and any improvement of public infrastructure through the development
process. The updates are found in irrigation systems, landscaping or planting
standards, street lights and address signs, storm drainage improvements, water
system improvements, and street improvements.

To begin, the first required change to a standard detail is the city’s local street
standard. The updated standard widens the asphalt drivable surface to explicitly
comply with the fire code for 26-foot drivable surface. As a result, the required
park strips will be reduced to six feet.




Updated Local Valley Street Standard Section

For reference, below is the previous local street standard with the updates being in
the park strip width and asphalt surface width.



     801-576-6585     |    engineering@draperutah.gov       |   draperutah.gov
Title
Date
Page 2 of 2




As stated, there are updates that are necessary due to changes in available
products. These changes would be in the water system, street lights, and irrigation
products. For example, we have update all of the standard street lights to be LED,
comply with improvement base and foundation requirements, supplier changes,
and finally the city’s current logo. In irrigation systems the changes are made
towards efficiency standards, long term operation, and ongoing maintenance
improvements. And finally, in the water system, Public Works has found certain
fixtures and components function better within the city’s system, have better
availability, and are within the city’s budget for maintenance parts.

Construction standards necessitated updates in our storm water standard details,
water standards, and street standards. One change is to use the APWA standard
details, with city modifications, where APWA is a construction standard generally.
These include changes to installation standards for products used in the trench,
backfill, and placement of material improvements. Another change is to remove
elements of the old standard details that were unique just to the city. We have
updated the standards to use a more typical trench zone detail for storm drain pipe
that is consistent with other municipalities.

In summary, these changes improve the requirements for city capital projects and
for the construction methodology that contractors will use thereby facilitating long-
term operation and maintenance of the city’s public improvements.




      801-576-6585    |   engineering@draperutah.gov        |   draperutah.gov
