                                    Development Review Committee
                                         1020 East Pioneer Road
                                           Draper, UT 84020
                                            August 15, 2025

To:                 Draper City Planning Commission
                    Business Date: August 28, 2025

From:               Development Review Committee

Prepared By: Jennifer Jastremsky, AICP, Community Development Director / Zoning
             Administrator
             Planning Division
             Community Development Department
             801-576-6328, jennifer.jastremsky@draperutah.gov

Re:       City Initiated Preschool, Limited – Text Amendment Request
          Application No.: 2025-0189-TA
          Applicant:        Draper City
          Project Location: City Wide
          Current Zoning: Residential uses and zones
          Request:          Request for approval of a Text Amendment to Draper City
                            Municipal Code (DCMC) Section 9-3-040 to adjust the number of
                            children allowed in a Preschool, Limited use.



BACKGROUND AND SUMMARY

This application is a request for approval of a Text Amendment to DCMC Section 9-3-040
The purpose of the rezone is to increase the number of children allowed in a home-based
Preschool, Limited use.



ANALYSIS

General Plan and Zoning.
The General Plan supports businesses growth and retention, including local and small
businesses.

      •   Page 10- Values- Economic Vitality



City Initiated Preschool, Limited                                  App. # 2025-0189-TA
Text Amendment Request                             1
          “Sustain a robust, unique, and local business environment”
     •    Page 17- “Establishing the proper canvas for economic growth and development is a
          key function of the City, and translates into opportunities to make Draper more
          vibrant and business friendly with each succeeding generation. This Plan
          encourages economic growth using land use polices to retain and expand existing
          business in locations that provide optimal benefits to the community.”
     •    Page 34- Economic Vitality Goals- Goal 1
          “Emphasize the retention and expansion of businesses in Draper and provide
          support mechanisms for small businesses in Draper.”
     •    Page 34- Economic Vitality Goals- Goal 2
          “Foster a pro-business environment conducive to attracting new businesses.”

DCMC Section 9-3-040 defines Preschool, Limited uses as follows:

          PRESCHOOL, LIMITED: A home occupation facility where, as a principal function,
          educational instruction is provided during not more than two (2) sessions per day for up
          to ten (10) preelementary school aged children ages three (3) to six (6) per session during
          customary schooling hours.

The development standards for Home Occupations listed in DCMC Section 9-34-050,
require a Conditional Use Permit for all Preschool, Limited uses. This is so that each
individual business can be assesses for impact on the adjacent neighborhood in regards to
parking and drop-off and pick-up of students.

Text Amendment. The proposed text amendment is attached to this report as Exhibit B. Blue
underlined text indicates new additions, red strikethrough text indicates text that will be
removed, and black text indicates text that will remain unchanged.

The proposal will increase the number of students allowed per session from ten to sixteen.
The Utah Department of Health and Human Services (DHHS) classifies home-based
preschools as Licensed Family Child Care. The number of children allowed by the State is
up to eight with one care giver and up to sixteen with two care givers. Currently the DCMC
limits home-based preschools to a maximum of ten children during a preschool session,
and allows home based businesses to have up to one employee who does not live within
the home outright. This creates a conflict, where a home-based preschool could have more
than eight students, and have a second teacher, but not go up to the sixteen allowed under
Utah State Rules. The proposed change would align the code with the Utah State Rules
allowing existing and future home-based preschools to have up to sixteen students.

Criteria For Approval.
A Text Amendment is a matter committed to the legislative discretion of the City Council
and is not controlled by any one standard. However, in making a recommendation to the




City Initiated Preschool, Limited                                          App. # 2025-0189-TA
Text Amendment Request                             2
City Council, the Planning Commission should consider the following factors in Section 9-5-
060(E) of the DCMC:

          2. Text Amendments:
               a. Whether the proposed amendment is consistent with goals, objectives and policies
                   of the city's general plan;
               b. Whether a proposed amendment furthers the specific purpose statements of the
                   zoning ordinance;
               c. Whether the proposed amendment is appropriate given the context of the request
                   and there is sufficient justification for a modification to the zoning ordinance;
               d. The proposed amendment will not create a conflict with any other section or part
                   of this title or the general plan;
               e. Whether the potential effects of the proposed amendment have been evaluated
                   and determined not to be detrimental to public health, safety, or welfare and
                   represents an overall community benefit; and
               f. The extent to which a proposed text amendment implements best current,
                   professional practices of urban planning, design, and engineering practices.



REVIEWS

Planning Division Review. The Draper City Planning Division has completed their review of
the Text Amendment submission. Comments from this division, if any, can be found in
Exhibit A.

Engineering and Public Works Divisions Review. The Draper City Engineering and Public
Works Divisions have completed their reviews of the Text Amendment submission.
Comments from these divisions, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Building Division Review. The Draper City Building Division has completed their review of the
Text Amendment submission. Comments from this division, if any, can be found in Exhibit
A.

Fire Division Review. The Draper City Fire Marshal has completed his review of the Text
Amendment submission. Comments from this division, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Legal Division Review. The Draper City Attorney has completed his review of the Text
Amendment submission. Comments from this division, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Noticing. Notice has been properly issued in the manner outlined in the City and State
Codes.




City Initiated Preschool, Limited                                        App. # 2025-0189-TA
Text Amendment Request                            3
STAFF RECOMMENDATION

Staff recommends that the Planning Commission review the request based on the findings
listed below and the criteria for approval, or denial as listed within the staff report. The
Planning Commission should also review the request, hear from the applicant, and receive
public comment prior to making a decision.



MODEL MOTIONS AND FINDINGS

Sample Motion for Approval – I move that we forward a positive recommendation to the
City Council for the Text Amendment, as requested by Draper City, for the City Initiated
Preschool, Limited Text Amendment, application 2025-0189-TA, based on the findings for
approval listed in the Staff Report dated August 25, 2025.

Findings for Approval:

          1.        The proposed amendment is consistent with goals, objectives and policies of
                    the city's general plan.
          2.        The proposed amendment furthers the specific purpose statements of the
                    zoning ordinance.
          3.        The proposed amendment is appropriate given the context of the request
                    and there is sufficient justification for a modification to the zoning ordinance;
          4.        The proposed amendment will not create a conflict with any other section or
                    part of this title or the general plan.
          5.        The potential effects of the proposed amendment have been evaluated and
                    determined not to be detrimental to public health, safety, or welfare and
                    represents an overall community benefit.
          6.        The proposed text amendment implements best current, professional
                    practices of urban planning, design, and engineering practices.

Sample Motion for Modified Approval– I move that we forward a positive recommendation
to the City Council for the Text Amendment, as requested by Draper City, for the City
Initiated Preschool, Limited Text Amendment, application 2025-0189-TA, based on the
findings for approval listed in the Staff Report dated August 25, 2025 and as modified by
the following additional findings

Additional Findings:
       1.     (List any additional findings…)

Sample Motion for Denial – I move that we forward a negative recommendation to the City
Council for the Text Amendment, as requested by Draper City, for the City Initiated




City Initiated Preschool, Limited                                          App. # 2025-0189-TA
Text Amendment Request                              4
Preschool, Limited Text Amendment, application 2025-0189-TA, based on the findings for
denial listed in the Staff Report dated August 25, 2025.

Findings for Denial:

          1.        The proposed amendment does not further the specific purpose statements
                    of the zoning ordinance.
          2.        The proposed amendment is not appropriate given the context of the
                    request and there is not sufficient justification for a modification to the
                    zoning ordinance;
          3.        The potential effects of the proposed amendment have been evaluated and
                    determined to be detrimental to public health, safety, or welfare and does
                    not represent an overall community benefit.
          4.        The proposed text amendment does not implement best current,
                    professional practices of urban planning, design, and engineering practices.




City Initiated Preschool, Limited                                       App. # 2025-0189-TA
Text Amendment Request                             5
                                      EXHIBIT A
                                 DEPARTMENT REVIEWS

REVIEWS ARE NOT MEANT TO BE AN ALL INCLUSIVE LIST OF POSSIBLE COMMENTS OR
CONDITIONS.



Planning Division Review.

       1. None provided

Engineering and Public Works Divisions Review.

       1. None provided

Building Division Review.

       1. None provided

Fire Division Review.

       1. None provided

Legal Division Review.

       1. None provided
                                       EXHIBIT B
                                   LEGISLATIVE DRAFT


9-3-040: DEFINITIONS:

PRESCHOOL, LIMITED: A home occupation facility where, as a principal function,
educational instruction is provided during not more than two (2) sessions per day for up to
ten sixteen (1016) pre-elementary school aged children ages three (3) to six (6) per session
during customary schooling hours.
