                                 Development Review Committee
                                     1020 East Pioneer Road
                                       Draper, UT 84020
                                        August 15, 2025

To:               Draper City Planning Commission
                  Business Date: August 28, 2025

From:             Development Review Committee

Prepared By: Nick Whittaker, MCMP, Planner II
             Planning Division
             Community Development Department
             801-576-6522, Nick.Whittaker@draperutah.gov

Re:      Pratt Fence – Conditional Use Permit Request
         Application No.: 2025-0031-USE
         Applicant:        Spencer & Holli Pratt
         Project Location: 296 E. Red Leaf Dr.
         Current Zoning: R3 (Single-family residential) Zone
         Acreage:          0.16 Acres (Approximately 6,970 ft2)
         Request:          Request for approval of a Conditional Use Permit in the R3 zone
                           to allow for a fence that is taller than six feet (6’).



BACKGROUND AND SUMMARY

This application is a request for approval of a Conditional Use Permit for approximately
0.16 acres located on the south side of Red Leaf Dr., at approximately 296 E. Red Leaf Dr.
(Exhibit B & C). The property is currently zoned R3. The applicant is requesting that a
Conditional Use Permit be approved to allow for a nine-foot and eight-inches (9’ 8”) fence to
be constructed on the subject property.

The property is Lot number 68 of the Highlands At South Pointe Subdivision. The single-
family dwelling on the lot was built in 2004. A fence had been installed along the east side of
the property which was taller than what is permitted and was constructed without the
approval of Draper City. The applicant has removed the portions of the fence that are taller
than six feet (6’) in height and is seeking a conditional use permit to allow for the additional
height.




Pratt Fence                                                        App. # 2025-0031-USE
Conditional Use Permit Request                 1
ANALYSIS

General Plan and Zoning.

 Table 1                    General Plan and Zoning Designations                    Exhibit
 Existing Land Use          Residential Medium Density                              Exhibit D
 Current Zoning             R3                                                      Exhibit E
 Adjacent Zoning
    East                    OS (Open Space)
    West                    R3
    North                   R3
    South                   R3

The Residential Medium Density land use designation is characterized as follows:




According to Draper City Municipal Code (DCMC) Section 9-8-020 the purpose of the R3
zone is to “permit medium density residential development without special mitigation
requirements. This zone is intended to provide incentives to foster residential development



Pratt Fence                                                        App. # 2025-0031-USE
Conditional Use Permit Request                   2
with little impact on its surroundings and on municipal services, and to generally preserve
the semirural character called for in the density element of the general plan. ”

Fencing. The applicant is requesting approval for fencing of varying height between six-feet
(6’) and nine-feet eight inches (9’-8”) that has been constructed along the east property line
(Exhibit F). The request is made to account for a slope that occurs along the east side of the
applicant’s property which runs parallel with the sidewalk that fronts Red Leaf Dr. The
slope gradually runs downward from the south end of the property line to the north
(Exhibit F). The applicant claims that the slope which the abutting sidewalk follows is not
consistent with the more gradual slope of the applicants’ yard which is different than the
adjacent sidewalk due to a deck in the yard. The applicant indicates that the taller fence
prevents people from falling off of the three-foot (3’) tall deck.

Table 2    Fencing and Design Requirements
 Standard     DCMC            Proposal                             Notes
              Requirements
 Height
    Front - 4’ maximum in No fencing is in front of the            DCMC 9-27-080(C)(3):
    Corner front of the       front wall plane.                    For purposes of locating
    Lot       front wall                                           fences, walls, landscaping
              plane           Install fencing between 6’           and other similar visual
              6’ maximum      and 9’ 8” in height behind           obstructions, a corner lot
              behind the      the front wall plane.                shall have one "front",
              front wall                                           which is defined as parallel
              plane                                                with the side of the
                                                                   residential structure which
                                                                   contains the primary
                                                                   entrance.
     Rear         6’ maximum       6’ fencing                      Existing

Subsection 9-27-080(A) in the DCMC states:

         A. Height: A fence, wall, or other visual obstruction, excluding trees, shall comply with
            the following:

                  1. When located within the required front yard a fence, wall, or other visual
                     obstruction, not including trees shall not exceed four feet (4') in height
                     unless a greater height is allowed by a conditional use permit or as
                     otherwise permitted in this title.

                  2. When located behind the front wall plane a fence, wall, or other visual
                     obstruction, not including trees, shall not exceed six fee (6') in height
                     unless a greater height is allowed by a conditional use permit or as



Pratt Fence                                                          App. # 2025-0031-USE
Conditional Use Permit Request                   3
                       otherwise permitted in this title.

Subsection 9-27-080(C) in the DCMC states:

         C. Corner Lots: In all zones which require a front yard, no obstruction to view in
         excess of three feet (3') in height shall be placed on any corner lot within a triangular
         area formed by the right of way boundary and the line connecting them at points
         thirty feet (30') from the intersection of the right of way boundary line, except for:

                  1. A reasonable number of trees pruned high enough to permit unobstructed
                     vision to an automobile driver; or

                  2. Monument identification signs when permitted by this title.

                  3. For purposes of locating fences, walls, landscaping and other similar visual
                     obstructions, a corner lot shall have one "front", which is defined as parallel
                     with the side of the residential structure which contains the primary
                     entrance.

Subsection 9-27-080(E) in the DCMC states:

         E. Other Visual Obstructions: Fences, walls, and other visual obstructions, not
         including trees, between six feet (6') and ten feet (10') in height shall be allowed only
         behind the front wall plane, and shall require a conditional use permit. Any such
         visual obstruction over six feet (6') in height must meet the setback requirements
         for accessory buildings unless otherwise permitted by a conditional use permit,
         except that no wall shall be constructed within a utility easement without the prior
         written permission of all affected utility companies. No fences, walls, or other visual
         obstructions over ten feet (10') in height are allowed, excluding trees.




Pratt Fence                                                            App. # 2025-0031-USE
Conditional Use Permit Request                      4
Figure 1 from DCMC subsection 9-27-080(F)




Staff notes that a six-foot (6’) tall fence would be three feet (3’) above the height of the deck
and provides adequate fall protection without the additional fence height. However, staff
does recognize that the additional fence height would create additional privacy for the
applicant while on their deck. Building code compliance related to the fall protection from
the deck is a separate issue from the Conditional Use Permit.

The taller fence would create some minor impacts to visibility for pedestrians utilizing the
adjacent sidewalk. However, staff believes the impacts to the neighborhood of a taller fence
in the location identified on the site plan are minimal. Greater impacts would be present if
taller fencing was installed in other areas of the property. Staff recommends that as a
condition of approval that the fencing be limited to the locations proposed in the submitted
application materials.

Criteria For Approval.
The criteria for review and potential approval of a conditional use permit request is found
in Section 9-5-080(E) of the DCMC. This section depicts the standard of review for such
requests as:

         E. Approval Standards: The standards of this subsection shall apply to the issuance
             of a conditional use permit:



Pratt Fence                                                         App. # 2025-0031-USE
Conditional Use Permit Request                 5
          1. A conditional use permit may be issued for a use to be located within a zone
             where the particular conditional use is allowed by the use regulations of the
             zone.
          2. Reasonable conditions may be imposed as necessary to substantially mitigate
             reasonably anticipated detrimental effects of the proposed use. These
             conditions may include conditions concerning use, construction, character,
             location, landscaping, screening, parking, hours of operation, and other matters
             relating to the purposes and objectives of this section. Such conditions shall be
             expressly set forth in the motion authorizing the conditional use permit.
          3. If the reasonably anticipated detrimental effects of a proposed conditional use
             cannot be substantially mitigated by the imposition of reasonable conditions to
             achieve compliance with applicable standards, the conditional use may be
             denied.
          4. The following factors shall be reviewed and considered in determining whether a
             conditional use permit application should be approved, approved with
             conditions, or denied because reasonable conditions cannot be imposed to
             achieve compliance with applicable standards:
               a. The harmony and compliance of the proposed use with the objectives and
                  requirements of the city's general plan and this title;
               b. The suitability of the specific property for the proposed use;
               c. Whether the proposed use or facility may be injurious to potential or existing
                  development in the vicinity;
               d. The economic impact of the proposed facility or use on the surrounding
                  area;
               e. The aesthetic impact of the proposed facility or use on the surrounding area;
               f. The safeguards proposed or provided to ensure adequate utilities,
                  transportation access, drainage, parking, loading space, lighting, screening,
                  landscaping, open space, fire protection, and pedestrian and vehicular
                  circulation;
               g. The safeguards provided or proposed to prevent noxious or offensive
                  emissions such as noise, glare, dust, pollutants and odor from the proposed
                  facility or use; and
               h. The impact of the proposed facility or use on the health, safety, and welfare
                  of the city, the area, and persons owning or leasing property in the area.
          5. The planning commission may request additional information as may be
             reasonably needed to determine whether the requirements of this subsection E
             can be met.


REVIEWS

Planning Division Review. The Draper City Planning Division has completed their review of
the Conditional Use Permit submission. Comments from this division, if any, can be found



Pratt Fence                                                        App. # 2025-0031-USE
Conditional Use Permit Request                  6
in Exhibit A.

Engineering and Public Works Divisions Review. The Draper City Engineering and Public
Works Divisions have completed their reviews of the Conditional Use Permit submission.
Comments from these divisions, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Building Division Review. The Draper City Building Division has completed their review of
the Conditional Use Permit submission. Comments from this division, if any, can be found
in Exhibit A.

Fire Division Review. The Draper City Fire Marshal has completed his review of the
Conditional Use Permit submission. Comments from this division, if any, can be found in
Exhibit A.

Noticing. Notice has been properly issued in the manner outlined in the City and State
Codes.



STAFF RECOMMENDATION

Staff recommends that the Planning Commission review the request based on the findings
listed below and the criteria for approval, or denial as listed within the staff report. The
Planning Commission should also hear from the applicant and receive public comment
prior to making a decision.

If the Planning Commission decides to approve the request, staff recommends they include
the following conditions of approval:

    1. That all requirements of the Draper City Engineering, Building and Planning Divisions
       are satisfied throughout the construction of the fence, including permitting.
    2. That the fencing shall not exceed nine-feet and eight-inches (9’ 8”) in height and shall
       be constructed only in the locations indicated on the approved site plan.
    3. That the applicant obtains a building permit for the fencing in the locations indicated
       on the approved site plan.



MODEL MOTIONS AND FINDINGS

Sample Motion for Approval – I move that we approve the Conditional Use Permit, as
requested by Spencer and Holli Pratt, Application 2025-0031-USE, based on the following
findings for approval and subject to the conditions listed in the Staff report dated August
15, 2025.




Pratt Fence                                                       App. # 2025-0031-USE
Conditional Use Permit Request                 7
Findings for approval:

         1. The proposal complies with the standards for approval found in DCMC Section 9-
            5-080(E) and potential negative impacts are mitigated through the imposition of
            reasonable conditions.

I move that we approve the Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit, as requested by
Spencer and Holli Pratt, Application 2025-0031-USE, based on the findings for approval and
subject to the conditions listed in the Staff report dated August 15, 2025 and as modified by
the following additional findings or conditions:

         1. (List any additional findings…)
         2. (List any additional conditions…)

Sample Motion for Denial – I move that we deny the Home Occupation Conditional Use
Permit, as requested by Spencer and Holli Pratt, Application 2025-0031-USE, based on the
following findings for denial listed in the Staff report dated August 15, 2025.

Findings for denial:

         1. The proposal does not comply with all standards for approval found in DCMC
            Section 9-5-080(E) and potential negative impacts are not able to be sufficiently
            mitigated through the imposition of reasonable conditions.




Pratt Fence                                                        App. # 2025-0031-USE
Conditional Use Permit Request                  8
                   DEVELOPMENT REVIEW COMMITTEE ACKNOWLEDGEMENT


We, the undersigned, as duly appointed members of the Draper City Development Review
Committee, do acknowledge that the application which provides the subject for this staff
report has been reviewed by the Committee and has been found to be appropriate for
review by the Draper City Planning Commission and/or City Council.

                          Digitally signed by Brian Maxticid
                          DN.CsUS,
                          B-brten.fraxtiela@>orat>erutan.gov.
   Brien Maxfieid 0> Draper, OU>PuD Ic Works -
                          Engineering, CN,:Bnen Maxlieid
                          Date: 2025.08.25 07:49:11-06W


Draper City Public Works Department                             aper City Planning Divisio


    V

                              A


Draper Citynre oeparm                                           raper City/l^gal ^urisei V
                         Ooia: r scnoa sy         Sy Ties
                         CN C-US.

Matthew Symes O-Oraocr City Ccrp . Cti-MatJww Syncs
                         C>naa symes<tMrapefjian gov.

                         OaU- ;a2S0B22CS'I3'i3Cfi03



Draper City Building Division
                                     EXHIBIT A
                                DEPARTMENT REVIEWS

REVIEWS ARE NOT MEANT TO BE AN ALL INCLUSIVE LIST OF POSSIBLE COMMENTS OR
CONDITIONS.



Planning Division Review.

       1. No additional comments provided.

Engineering and Public Works Divisions Review.

       1. No additional comments provided.

Building Division Review.

       1. No additional comments provided.

Fire Division Review.

       1. No additional comments provided.
  EXHIBIT B
VICINITY MAP
EXHIBIT C
ARIEL MAP
  EXHIBIT D
LAND USE MAP
 EXHIBIT E
ZONING MAP
EXHIBIT F
SITE PLAN
8' 2" 8' 4"




         9' 8"


        6'
Applicants: Spencer and Holli Pratt
Date: 02/01/2025


Exhibits
      EXHIBIT G
APPLICANT STATEMENTS
Analysis of Deviations Requested

Property Address:
296 E Red Leaf Dr, Draper, Utah 84020

Legal Description:
LOT 68, HIGHLANDS AT SOUTH POINTE. 8934-3510 8934-3513 9039-7756,7757 9725-
2282,2284 9742-376

Parcel ID:
34073790110000




Table of Contents
Nature of Request ................................................................................................... 1
Justiﬁcation ............................................................................................................ 1
Compliance with Other Zoning Standards ................................................................ 2
Compliance with City’s General Plan ....................................................................... 2
Impact on Surroundings .......................................................................................... 2
Conclusion ............................................................................................................. 2



Nature of Request
The conditional use permit request pertains to the height of an existing vinyl fence located on the
east side of the property. While Draper City Code limits fence height to six feet, a 35-foot
horizontal section of the fence gradually and uniformly increases in height from six feet to nine
feet eight inches due to the natural downward slope of the adjacent sidewalk. This section
represents only a small percentage of the overall fence perimeter.

Justiﬁcation
    •    Consistency in Fence Height from the Deck Side: The fence was constructed to
         maintain a consistent height of 5.5 to 6 feet when viewed from the deck side, ensuring
         safety and privacy.
    •    Safety Considerations: Without the additional height, the fence at the lowest sidewalk
         point would provide insufficient safety, creating a fall hazard from the deck.
   •   Visual Integration: The fence tapers in a visually appealing way, ensuring a gradual
       transition that maintains neighborhood aesthetics.

Compliance with Other Zoning Standards
   •   The fence is fully compliant with material and placement regulations; and all other
       setback requirements.
   •   There is no impact on visibility for pedestrians or vehicles.
   •   The fence does not obstruct any public access, utilities, or easements.

Compliance with City’s General Plan
The fence aligns with principles found in the city’s General Plan. For example:
   • Neighborhood Character and Aesthetics: The material and location of the fence aligns
       with the aesthetic character of the neighborhood and the deviation does not conflict with
       the goals of the city’s General Plan.
   • Public Health, Safety, and Welfare: The deviation is necessary for the safe use of the
       homeowner’s deck.
   • Orderly Development: The deviation represents a logical and reasonable adjustment to
       the specific site conditions that improves the quality of the yard and neighborhood.
   • Compatibility: The proposed fence deviation is compatible with the land uses and
       character envisioned in the city’s General Plan Land Use Map and related policies.

Impact on Surroundings
   •   No Neighbor Objections: The fence has been in place for over a decade with no
       complaints from neighbors.
   •   Precedents in the Area: Multiple fences in the immediate vicinity, including those
       behind and west of the property, exceed seven feet in height due to their placement
       atop retaining walls.
   •   Neighborhood Aesthetics: The fence is visually consistent with other properties and
       does not disrupt the overall character of the area.

Conclusion
While slightly deviating from the “letter of the law”, the requested height deviation is minimal,
justified by safety and design considerations, and is in harmony and compliance with existing
neighborhood conditions and the spirit of the city’s General Plan. The applicant respectfully
makes this conditional use permit request to maintain the fence in its current form.

Applicant: Spencer and Holli Pratt
Date: 02/01/2025
Overview of Proposed Use

Property Address:
296 E Red Leaf Dr, Draper, Utah 84020

Legal Description:
LOT 68, HIGHLANDS AT SOUTH POINTE. 8934-3510 8934-3513 9039-7756,7757 9725-
2282,2284 9742-376

Parcel ID:
34073790110000




Table of Contents
Project Description ................................................................................................. 1
Intended Use & Justiﬁcation .................................................................................... 1
Property Features & Surrounding Context ................................................................. 2
Compliance & Considerations ................................................................................. 2
Conclusion ............................................................................................................. 2



Project Description
The applicant seeks approval for an existing vinyl fence that encloses the backyard of the
property. The fence was professionally installed over a decade ago and follows the natural slope
of the adjacent sidewalk. Due to this slope, a portion of the fence exceeds the standard seven-foot
height limit, reaching a maximum of just under ten feet. The conditional use permit request is to
allow the fence to remain in its current form, as it serves critical safety, security, and aesthetic
functions for the property.


Intended Use & Justiﬁcation
The fence serves multiple essential purposes:
   • Safety & Security: The fence provides a safe, enclosed area for the applicant’s children
       to play and for pets to be contained within the property.
   • Privacy & Noise Reduction: The fence acts as a noise barrier, particularly for the deck
       area, while also providing privacy from pedestrians using the adjacent sidewalk.
   •   Aesthetic & Neighborhood Consistency: The fence is visually integrated into the
       property and is similar to other fences in the neighborhood, maintaining a uniform
       streetscape.

Property Features & Surrounding Context
   •   The entire backyard is enclosed by the fence, ensuring full containment and security.
   •   There are two access gates: one on the southeast side and another on the northwest side of
       the backyard.
   •   The property is surrounded by other single-family homes, with a public park located to
       the east.
   •   The fence is positioned at a standard distance from the sidewalk and does not create any
       visibility or traffic safety concerns.
   •   Landscaping and other design elements help the fence blend into the neighborhood
       aesthetic.

Compliance & Considerations
   •   The fence does not obstruct public access, interfere with utilities, or impact the
       neighborhood’s functionality.
   •   There are no HOA regulations or neighborhood covenants restricting the fence height.
   •   Alternative solutions, such as lowering the fence, are not feasible due to the hardship
       justifications outlined in the Statement of Variance Applicability.
   •   Other fences in the neighborhood exceed height limits when built atop retaining walls.

Conclusion
The applicant requests that the conditional user permit be granted, as the existing fence aligns
with Draper City’s zoning intent while addressing essential safety, privacy, and aesthetic
concerns. The fence has been in place for over a decade without issue and continues to contribute
positively to the property and neighborhood.

Applicant: Spencer and Holli Pratt
Date: 02/01/2025
Variance Statement
Statement of Variance Applicability

Property Address:
296 E Red Leaf Dr, Draper, Utah 84020

Legal Description:
LOT 68, HIGHLANDS AT SOUTH POINTE. 8934-3510 8934-3513 9039-7756,7757 9725-
2282,2284 9742-376

Parcel ID:
34073790110000

Zoning Designation:
R3



Table of Contents
Statement of Variance Applicability ......................................................................... 1
Exhibits .................................................................................................................. 3



Statement of Variance Applicability
Overview of the Conditional Use Permit Request
The applicant requests a conditional use permit for the height of an existing vinyl fence
located on the east side of the property. The fence follows the natural downward slope of
the adjacent sidewalk and exceeds the standard six-foot height limit for approximately
thirty-ﬁve horizontal feet, with its maximum height reaching nine feet eight inches. This
variance is necessary to ensure safety, privacy, security, and aesthetic continuity while also
avoiding signiﬁcant ﬁnancial hardship associated with reconstructing the fence and the
deck it protects.

Hardship Justiﬁcation
Per Draper City Code, conditional use permits may be granted when literal enforcement of
the ordinance results in an unreasonable hardship. The applicant asserts that the following
hardships exist:
   • Safety Hazard: On the house side of the fence is a level deck. On the street side of
       the fence is a steep, downward sloping sidewalk. A fence that was consistently six
       feet tall on the street side would result in a two-foot-high fence on the extreme end
       of the deck side. This poses a signiﬁcant fall risk from the deck; and the potential for
       signiﬁcant injury, as a human falling over this obstacle would fall six feet down onto
       concrete.
   •   Cost of Replacement: The fence has been in place for approximately 16 years.
       Reconstructing it to comply with a strict height limit would impose a substantial
       ﬁnancial burden on the homeowner.
   •   Privacy: The fence provides privacy from the sidewalk, which runs along the
       property’s boundary.
   •   Aesthetic Consistency: The existing fence allows for the deck to accommodate the
       natural grade of the sidewalk in a safe manner that is consistent with the city’s
       General Plan. To support the deck with a six-foot-tall fence, the homeowner would
       have to mount the fence posts to the deck which would a) look aesthetically
       unpleasing, b) not provide a ﬁrm foundation, and c) not lower fence height from the
       street side.
   •   Property Value Impact: Reducing the fence height could negatively a^ect the
       property’s value by forcing the homeowner to remove the deck or otherwise
       diminishing its privacy and security features.

Special Circumstances Related to the Property
This neighborhood has unique characteristics that justify the requested conditional use
permit:
   • There are multiple examples of fences atop retaining walls in the area that
       combined, far exceed six feet, suggesting a precedent for similar height
       adjustments.
   • For the section of fence that exceeds six feet, the sidewalk adjacent to the fence
       slopes downward by approximately ﬁve feet over a thirty-ﬁve-foot span, creating a
       signiﬁcant grade di^erential. In order to support a safe ﬂat side yard deck, the fence
       must increase in height with the natural slope of the terrain.

Compliance with the General Plan and Public Interest
  • The proposed variance does not impede visibility for drivers or pedestrians.
  • The fence does not obstruct views from neighboring properties.
  • The fence has been in place for over a decade without complaints, indicating it does
     not negatively impact the neighborhood.
  • Granting this permit aligns with the intent of the zoning ordinance by ensuring public
     safety and maintaining aesthetic standards in the community.

Conclusion
Given the above circumstances, the applicant respectfully requests that the permit for the
existing fence height be granted. The hardship imposed by strict adherence to the
ordinance is signiﬁcant, and the permit would not be contrary to the public interest, the
spirit of the zoning regulations, nor the city’s General Plan.
