                                 Development Review Committee
                                     1020 East Pioneer Road
                                        Draper, UT 84020
                                          February 26, 2025

To:             Draper City Planning Commission
                Business Date: March 27, 2025

From:           Development Review Committee

Prepared By: Todd Taylor, Planner III
             Planning Division
             Community Development Department
             801-576-6510, todd.taylor@draperutah.gov

Re:     Veranda West – Master Area Plan Amendment and Zoning Text Amendment
        Application No.: 2024-0456-TA, 2024-0336-MAP
        Applicant:        Keith Hansen of AE Urbia, representing City Centre Draper
                          Holdings, LLC
        Project Location: 13708 South 600 West
        Current Zoning: TSD (Transit Station District) Zone
        Acreage:          31.27 Acres (Approximately 1,362,121 ft2)
        Request:          Request for approval of a Master Area Plan Amendment and
                          associated Zoning Text Amendments to Draper City Municipal
                          Code (DCMC) Chapter 9-14 to modify the Veranda West Master
                          Area Plan.



BACKGROUND AND SUMMARY

This application is a request for approval of a Master Area Plan (MAP) Amendment and
Zoning Text Amendments for approximately 31.27 acres located on the north side of
Bangerter Highway, at approximately 13708 South 600 West (Exhibit B & C). The applicant is
requesting the MAP and Zoning Text Amendments to increase the number of apartments,
increase the retail area, and reduce the office area of the current MAP. The applicant also is
requesting the addition of hotel, convenience store fuel station, and daycare uses to the
MAP.

The original Veranda West MAP was approved by the City Council on March 5, 2019. The site
was designated as a TSD-3 intensity area with residential, retail, and office uses. The MAP


Veranda West Master Area Plan Amendment                           App. No. 2024-0336-MAP,
and Zoning Text Amendment                         1                        2024-0456-TA
showed that the site would have 386 residential units, 3.34 acres of land for retail, 12.34
acres of land for office, and 9.6 acres of open space. With respect to the residential units,
121 were designated as townhomes and 265 as apartments (stacked flats). All 121
townhomes have been built in the northern portion of the project area.

A minor amendment to the Veranda West MAP was approved by the Zoning Administrator
on May 4, 2020. The minor amendment clarified the text of the architectural and site
development guidelines for the residential portion of the project by specifying which items
applied to livable versus non-livable buildings, such as maintenance sheds and clubhouses.



ANALYSIS

General Plan and Zoning.

 Table 1                  General Plan and Zoning Designations                     Exhibit
 Existing Land Use        Transit Station District                                 Exhibit D
 Current Zoning           TSD                                                      Exhibit E
 Adjacent Zoning
     East                 TSD, CSD-DPMU (Commercial Special District – Draper
                          Pointe Mixed Use)
     West                 TSD
     North                DC (Destination Commercial)
     South                M1 (Light Manufacturing)

The Transit Station District land use designation is characterized as follows:




Veranda West Master Area Plan Amendment                            App. No. 2024-0336-MAP,
and Zoning Text Amendment                      2                            2024-0456-TA
According to DCMC Section 9-14-010, the purpose of the TSD zone is to “promote transit
oriented and transit supportive development in areas that are generally located near a
commuter rail transit or rapid transit station and to maximize the flexibility of the
development approval process so as to permit such development in a manner that is
responsive to market demands and consistent with the purposes and objectives of the TSD.”

MAP Amendment.

The MAP Amendment proposes to modify both the text of the architectural and site
development guidelines and the exhibits of the concept plan (Exhibit F). The currently
approved Veranda West MAP is attached to this staff report for reference (Exhibit G).

The text of the architectural and site development guidelines would be modified to reflect
the new proposed uses of hotel, convenience store fuel station, and daycare. The hotel and
daycare uses are proposed to follow the same standards currently applied to office uses,
and the convenience store fuel station use would follow the same standards currently
applied to retail uses. Additionally, it is made clear that restaurant uses are allowed within
the retail areas. An additional standard has been added to retail requiring screening of a
minimum of three feet (3’) in height around the perimeter of drive-throughs and where the
convenience store fuel station is adjacent to residential uses.


Veranda West Master Area Plan Amendment                           App. No. 2024-0336-MAP,
and Zoning Text Amendment                     3                            2024-0456-TA
The exhibits in the Veranda West MAP would be replaced with new exhibits showing the
updated building architecture, general location of uses, and vehicular and pedestrian
circulation plans. The largest changes are the increase in the number of apartments and the
decrease in the land area dedicated to office uses. The land dedicated to retail uses has also
increased, and the new uses are also added.

 Table 2                  Concept Plan Changes
 Use                      Existing     Proposed           Notes
 Residential              386 units    721 units
    Townhomes             121 units    121 units     The Austin Townhomes have been built.
    Apartments            265 units    600 units     Increase of 335 units.
 Retail / Restaurant      3.34 acres   5.7 acres     Increase of 2.36 acres. Clarified that
                                                     restaurant uses, including those with
                                                     drive-throughs would be allowed as well.
 Office                   12.34 acres     2.27 acres Decrease of 10.07 acres.
 Hotel                    N/A             2.3 acres  New use added.
 Convenience Store        N/A             1.4 acres  New use added.
 Fuel Station
 Daycare                  N/A             1.6 acres       New use added.
 Open Space               9.6 acres       7.4 acres       Decrease of 2.2 acres. Open space would
                                                          decrease from 31% of the site to 23%.

Staff notes that, as stated above, the purpose of the TSD Zone is to “promote transit oriented
and transit supportive development in areas that are generally located near a commuter rail
transit or rapid transit...”. Restaurant uses with drive throughs, and convenience store fuel
station uses are not considered compatible with transit oriented development. However, the
site is designated as TSD-3, which is described in DCMC Section 9-14-040(A) as follows:

         A. Intensity Areas: The TSD is composed of three (3) specific intensity areas: TSD-1;
            TSD-2; and TSD-3. Density is expected to be highest in the TSD-1 and TSD-2
            intensity areas, which shall be pedestrian oriented and well connected to public
            use spaces, parks, plazas and social gathering areas. Similar connectivity and
            pedestrian orientation is encouraged for the TSD-3 intensity area, but application
            of the foregoing requirements may not be as strictly applied given the orientation,
            grade, or other site specific constraints affecting the development of a particular
            parcel within the TSD-3 intensity area. Multiple uses consisting primarily of multi-
            family, commercial, retail, office, and a mix of the foregoing and other uses are
            particularly encouraged in the TSD-1 and TSD-2 intensity areas. The boundaries
            of the TSD-1, TSD-2, and TSD-3 intensity areas shall be as shown in Section 9-14-
            110, Exhibit 9-14-1 of this chapter, and may be adjusted from time to time as a
            Text Amendment to this chapter, pursuant to Section 9-5-060 of this title. The



Veranda West Master Area Plan Amendment                                  App. No. 2024-0336-MAP,
and Zoning Text Amendment                             4                           2024-0456-TA
            official copies of all approved MAPs and intensity area boundaries shall be
            maintained in and by the Draper City Community Development Department.

In order to ensure similar connectivity and pedestrian orientation the proposal includes
screening of a minimum of three feet (3’) in height around the perimeter of drive-throughs
and where the convenience store fuel station is adjacent to residential uses, and it maintains
pedestrian and bicycle circulation throughout the site. Additionally, the location of the
Draper FrontRunner transit station is approximately a one-mile walk from the closest
location where these uses are proposed.

A Traffic Impact Study (TIS) was submitted as part of the proposal. The TIS requires project
mitigation improvements in surrounding public streets, such as turn lanes and lane
additions. These improvements will be required by the City at the time of site plan approval.
Staff notes that there are differences between the location of the access points analyzed in
the TIS, and those proposed in the MAP, and that compliance with the TIS and the City’s
engineering standards is required. Modifications to the conceptual plan due to the required
compliance with engineering standards may necessitate additional MAP amendments in the
future.

Zoning Text Amendment.

The proposed Zoning Text Amendment modifies DCMC Section 9-14-110, Exhibit 9-14-1, by
replacing the map for Veranda West with the updated version (Exhibit H). The proposed
exhibit modifies the layout of the current and proposed additional uses, but does not modify
the currently adopted TSD-3 intensity area designation.

Criteria For Approval.

Master Area Plan Amendment. The criteria for review and potential approval of a Master
Area Plan request is found in DCMC Section 9-14-060(E). This section depicts the standard of
review for such requests as:

        E. Criteria For Review: The planning commission and city council shall have
           discretion to disapprove a MAP with respect to the required elements of a MAP
           application only on the basis of:
             1) the failure to provide and comply with all of the required elements under this
                section unless waived pursuant to the provisions of this chapter;
             2) the failure of the master circulation plan to adequately serve the MAP area
                and areas surrounding the project;
             3) the failure of any item required by this section to provide for a community
                character substantially consistent with the purposes of the TSD, including the
                failure of the land use analysis to provide for at least twenty five percent
                (25%) commercial, retail, or office uses; or


Veranda West Master Area Plan Amendment                            App. No. 2024-0336-MAP,
and Zoning Text Amendment                     5                             2024-0456-TA
              4) development standards or design guidelines that are inconsistent with high
                 quality transit oriented design standards, including the use of high quality
                 building materials.

Zoning Text Amendment. A Zoning Text Amendment is a matter committed to the legislative
discretion of the City Council and is not controlled by any one standard. However, in making
a recommendation to the City Council, the Planning Commission should consider the
following factors in DCMC Section 9-5-060(E):

        2. Text Amendments:
             a. Whether the proposed amendment is consistent with goals, objectives and
                policies of the city's general plan;
             b. Whether a proposed amendment furthers the specific purpose statements of
                the zoning ordinance;
             c. Whether the proposed amendment is appropriate given the context of the
                request and there is sufficient justification for a modification to the zoning
                ordinance;
             d. The proposed amendment will not create a conflict with any other section or
                part of this title or the general plan;
             e. Whether the potential effects of the proposed amendment have been
                evaluated and determined not to be detrimental to public health, safety, or
                welfare and represents an overall community benefit; and
             f. The extent to which a proposed text amendment implements best current,
                professional practices of urban planning, design, and engineering practices


REVIEWS

Planning Division Review. The Draper City Planning Division has completed their review of
the Zoning Text Amendment and MAP Amendment submissions. Comments from this
division, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Engineering and Public Works Divisions Review. The Draper City Engineering and Public
Works Divisions have completed their reviews of the Zoning Text Amendment and MAP
Amendment submissions. Comments from these divisions, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Building Division Review. The Draper City Building Division has completed their review of the
Zoning Text Amendment and MAP Amendment submissions. Comments from this division,
if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Fire Division Review. The Draper City Fire Marshal has completed his review of the Zoning
Text Amendment and MAP Amendment submissions. Comments from this division, if any,
can be found in Exhibit A.


Veranda West Master Area Plan Amendment                             App. No. 2024-0336-MAP,
and Zoning Text Amendment                       6                            2024-0456-TA
Legal Division Review. The Draper City Attorney has completed her review of the Zoning Text
Amendment and MAP Amendment submissions. Comments from this division, if any, can be
found in Exhibit A.

Noticing. Notice has been properly issued in the manner outlined in the City and State Codes.


STAFF RECOMMENDATION

Staff recommends that the Planning Commission review the request, receive public
comment, and make a recommendation to the City Council based on the findings listed
below and the criteria for approval, or denial, as listed within the staff report.



MODEL MOTIONS

MAP Amendment.

Sample Motion for Positive Recommendation – I move that we forward a positive
recommendation to the City Council for the MAP Amendment, as requested by Keith Hansen
of AE Urbia, representing City Centre Draper Holdings, LLC, Application No. 2024-0456-TA,
based on the findings for approval as listed in the staff report dated February 26, 2025.

Findings for approval:
   1. The proposal complies with all of the required elements under DCMC Section 9-14-
       060.
   2. The master circulation plan adequately serves the MAP area and areas surrounding
       the project.
   3. The proposal provides for a community character substantially consistent with the
       purposes of the TSD, including the provision for at least twenty-five percent (25%)
       commercial, retail, or office uses.
   4. The proposed development standards and design guidelines are high quality transit
       oriented design standards, including the use of high quality building materials.

Sample Motion for Modified Positive Recommendation – I move that we forward a positive
recommendation to the City Council for the MAP Amendment, as requested by Keith Hansen
of AE Urbia, representing City Centre Draper Holdings, LLC, Application No. 2024-0456-TA,
based on the findings for approval as listed in the staff report dated February 26, 2025, and
as modified by the following findings:

    1. List any additional findings or modifications to findings…



Veranda West Master Area Plan Amendment                             App. No. 2024-0336-MAP,
and Zoning Text Amendment                     7                              2024-0456-TA
Sample Motion for Negative Recommendation – I move that we forward a negative
recommendation to the City Council for the MAP Amendment, as requested by Keith Hansen
of AE Urbia, representing City Centre Draper Holdings, LLC, Application No. 2024-0456-TA,
based on the findings for denial as listed in the staff report dated February 26, 2025.

Findings for denial:
   1. The proposal does not comply with all of the required elements under DCMC Section
       9-14-060.
   2. The master circulation plan is not adequate to serve the MAP area and areas
       surrounding the project.
   3. The proposal does not provide for a community character substantially consistent
       with the purposes of the TSD, including the provision for at least twenty five percent
       (25%) commercial, retail, or office uses.
   4. The proposed development standards and design guidelines are not high quality
       transit oriented design standards, including the use of high quality building materials.

Zoning Text Amendment.

Sample Motion for Positive Recommendation – I move that we forward a positive
recommendation to the City Council for the Zoning Text Amendment, as requested by Keith
Hansen of AE Urbia, representing City Centre Draper Holdings, LLC, Application No. 2024-
0456-TA, based on the findings for approval as listed in the staff report dated February 26,
2025.

Findings for approval:
   1. The proposed amendment is consistent with goals, objectives and policies of the city's
       general plan.
   2. The proposed amendment furthers the specific purpose statements of the zoning
       ordinance.
   3. The proposed amendment is appropriate given the context of the request and there
       is sufficient justification for a modification to the zoning ordinance.
   4. The proposed amendment will not create a conflict with any other section or part of
       this title or the general plan.
   5. The potential effects of the proposed amendment have been evaluated and
       determined not to be detrimental to public health, safety, or welfare and represents
       an overall community benefit.
   6. The proposed text amendment implements best current, professional practices of
       urban planning, design, and engineering practices.

Sample Motion for Modified Positive Recommendation – I move that we forward a positive
recommendation to the City Council for the Zoning Text Amendment, as requested by Keith
Hansen of AE Urbia, representing City Centre Draper Holdings, LLC, Application No. 2024-



Veranda West Master Area Plan Amendment                            App. No. 2024-0336-MAP,
and Zoning Text Amendment                     8                             2024-0456-TA
0456-TA, based on the findings for approval as listed in the staff report dated February 26,
2025, and as modified by the following findings:

    1. List any additional findings or modifications to findings…

Sample Motion for Negative Recommendation – I move that we forward a negative
recommendation to the City Council for the Zoning Text Amendment, as requested by Keith
Hansen of AE Urbia, representing City Centre Draper Holdings, LLC, Application No. 2024-
0456-TA, based on the findings for denial as listed in the staff report dated February 26, 2025.

Findings for denial:
   1. The proposed amendment is not consistent with goals, objectives and policies of the
       city's general plan.
   2. The proposed amendment does not further the specific purpose statements of the
       zoning ordinance.
   3. The proposed amendment is not appropriate given the context of the request and
       there is not sufficient justification for a modification to the zoning ordinance.
   4. The proposed amendment will create a conflict with another section or part of this
       title or the general plan.
   5. The potential effects of the proposed amendment have been evaluated and
       determined to be detrimental to public health, safety, or welfare and does not
       represent an overall community benefit.
   6. The proposed text amendment does not implement best current, professional
       practices of urban planning, design, and engineering practices.




Veranda West Master Area Plan Amendment                             App. No. 2024-0336-MAP,
and Zoning Text Amendment                      9                             2024-0456-TA
                                      EXHIBIT A
                                 DEPARTMENT REVIEWS

REVIEWS ARE NOT MEANT TO BE AN ALL INCLUSIVE LIST OF POSSIBLE COMMENTS OR
CONDITIONS.



Planning Division Review.

       1.     No additional comment.

Engineering and Public Works Divisions Review.

       1.     The TIS requires project mitigation improvements in surrounding public
              streets, such as turn lanes and lane additions. These improvements shall be at
              the expense of the project, as a condition of the increase in permitted use
              density, and shall be required at the time of site plan approval based on the
              traffic generated by the proposed site.
       2.     There are differences between the proposed MAP conceptual site plan and the
              accesses analyzed in the TIS. Modifications to the conceptual plan due to
              engineering standards may require MAP amendments in the future.

Building Division Review.

       1.     No additional comment.

Fire Division Review.

       1.     No additional comment.

Legal Division Review.

       1.     No additional comment.
  EXHIBIT B
VICINITY MAP
 EXHIBIT C
AERIAL MAP
  EXHIBIT D
LAND USE MAP
      EXHIBIT E
EXISTING ZONING MAP
                    EXHIBIT F
PROPOSED VERANDA WEST MASTER AREA PLAN AMENDMENT
VERANDA WEST MASTER PLAN




     CONCEPTUAL MASTER AREA PLAN - JANUARY 2025
                          VERANDA                    WEST


Veranda West is located to the North West corner of the newly constructed intersection
of Bangerter Highway and 600 West. The parcel of land is long and narrow and consists
of approximately 32 acres. The development plan (see attached) consists of a mix of
uses such as multi-family residential, hotel, office, retail, daycare, convenience fuel
store and restaurants.

The north and south ends are planned for multi-family, a combination of townhome
and apartments. The middle of the property is planned have 10
retail/restaurant/convenience fuel store pads (approximately 52,000 sq. ft.) as well as
an office building and hotel (approximately 250,000 sq. ft.).

The proposed land uses fit within the area plan specifications a mixed-use, high-density
project containing office, multi-family, retail/restaurant, and convenience fuel store.

The main entrance for the project will be at the future signal on 600 west. There will be
three more access points on 600 west (one north and one south of the signal). This
project will also share an access point to the north with the Veranda apartments, giving
this project access to Vista Station BLVD.

The transportation systems within the MAP area are mostly in existence including
collector and arterial streets (Bangerter Highway, 600 West Street, Vista Station Blvd,
Frontrunner Blvd, 200 West), and Frontrunner.

 Storm drainage and other utilities have been reviewed for capacity and are available
for the site development (See attached utility map).

Architectural and site design standards for the MAP are outlined in the Development
Guidelines (See attached), including setback and parking standards. The project will
be designed in such a way as to promote compatibility between the MAP area and
adjoining properties. If applicable (based on market conditions), structured parking
shall be designed to be compatible with the project in general.

The estimated sequence and timing of development of the subject parcel will be in an
estimated 3 phases (Residential, Office and Retail) with phase 1 starting in 2-5 years.
Construction and phasing will be based on market conditions. There are no major
public improvements or off-site infrastructure improvements or facilities required or
anticipated to be required in connection with the development of the MAP other than
the standard wet and dry utilities.
A comprehensive sign program has included in the Development Guidelines (See
attached).

This Memorandum and site plan have been reviewed by the Architectural Control
Committee members, Nate Boyer of The Boyer Company, and Mark Murdock of the
Gardner Company.
Veranda West Architectural and Site Development Guidelines


Development Standards: Site development will occur in accordance with Chapter 9-14
Transit Station District (TSD) of the Draper City Municipal Code and the following
development standards.

Development Areas: Based on land use, each building shall comply with the following
development standards:



Office/Hotel/Daycare

      1. The architecture shall be the primary tool to create a strong sense of identity
      and place throughout the office district. All buildings will be articulated with use-
      appropriate scale, form, materials, and colors carefully considered and
      incorporated throughout the development phases.

      2. All building facades shall have the same character each utilizing the same
      materials,

      colors, features, forms, and design elements appropriate to the scale of the
      various building sizes.

      3. Building primary materials shall consist of granite, metal, composite metal
      panel,

      stone, EFIS, concrete, GFRC or tile.

      4. More than one material shall be required on all building facades.

      5. Buildings shall have a minimum of 40% high efficiency glazing.

      6. Buildings shall use 50% of a primary material.

      7. Buildings shall have notable entry features which could include: An arch or
      canopy over entry doors, Colors or materials that highlight the entry, Entry doors
      and lobby that extend beyond or are recessed behind the main footprint of the
      building.

      8. All mechanical equipment shall be screened from view, either by enclosure,
      parapet wall, or line of sight.

      9. Dumpsters shall be enclosed within a decorative masonry, split face CMU or
      honed CMU enclosure.

      10. The minimum front setback from right-of-way or exterior property lines shall
      be 10-feet.
       11. Building material placement and material colors shall be used to distinguish
       office building elevations from other office buildings in the immediate area, as
       approved by the ACC.

       12. A common plaza shall be built for the office building(s) and shall include
       outdoor furniture and two of the following: fire pit, covered shelter, pavilion, trellis,
       water feature, outdoor art or seat walls, etc.

Retail/Restaurant/Convenience Fuel Store

       1. The minimum setback from right-of-way or exterior property lines shall be 10-
       feet.

       2. Minimum building height shall be one-story.

       3. More than one material shall be required on all building facades.

       4. Building primary materials shall consist of granite, metal, composite metal
       panel, stone, EFIS, concrete, GFRC, tile or other similar material as approved by
       the ACC.

       5. Dumpsters shall be enclosed within a decorative masonry, split face CMU or
       honed CMU enclosure.

       6. A minimum of two outdoor eating plazas shall be built for the retail &
       restaurant buildings and shall include outdoor furniture and each outdoor eating
       plaza shall include two of the following: fire pit, covered shelter, pavilion, trellis,
       water feature, outdoor art or seat walls, etc.

       7. Landscaping and/or screening measuring 3-feet in height will be used around
       the perimeter of the drive-through, when possible, to help minimize the visual
       impact of the traffic. The same landscaping buffer will be used to screen
       convenience fuel stores, when located adjacent to residential.




Residential (apartments and townhomes)

Residential Buildings shall be classified as either ‘Livable Residential’ (i.e. Stacked Flats
and Townhomes) or ‘Non-livable Residential’ (i.e. Clubhouse and Maintenance
Building).

       1. All Residential Buildings (within a sub-phase) shall share the same unique
       architectural theme including, but not limited to, colors, materials, rooflines and
       entries. In addition, Livable Residential shall also share the same unique
       architectural theme in regards to rooflines and entries.

       2. All Residential Buildings materials shall consist of at least three material types.
3. All Livable Residential shall be a variety of floor plans/unit sizes within each sub-
phase area.

4. Livable Residential - Townhome amenities – Outdoor plaza with seating and
either a fire pit or a BBQ area, a tot lot, grass play area and an indoor exercise
facility. Livable Residential - Stacked flat amenities - A Clubhouse with a club
room, exercise facility and pool with spa and one outdoor plaza with a fire pit.
Other amenities to be determined by developer based on product type.

5. All Residential Buildings will be connected by internal walkways with shared
use of outdoor common areas.

6. All Residential Buildings shall have roofs clad in asphalt shingles, wood shingles,
standing seam metal, a similar, or a combination of similar materials or shall have
flat roofs.

7. Livable Residential building elevation that faces a public street or internal main
private street or public open space, shall have either a porch, balcony, private
patio or windows.

8. Residential Buildings with any pitched roof covering the main body of the
structure shall be hip style, monopitch or shed style, flat roofs or shall have
symmetrical gables.

9. Livable Residential roof forms shall be designed to emphasize the residential
units when possible and shall denote building elements and functions, including
primary pedestrian entrances.

10. Residential Building setbacks are as follows: 20-feet from right-of-way or
exterior property lines. Parking shall be allowed in setback areas along with
garbage dumpsters.

11. Livable Residential building design and orientation should consider exposure
to sunlight to avoid energy inefficiencies.

12. Prohibited materials. Vinyl and aluminum siding products are prohibited as
wall materials.

13. Livable Residential color scheme. The use of a single-color scheme, minimal
detailing, or blank (or largely blank) walls is not permitted. The use of exterior
stairs is discouraged.

14. Livable Residential openings. Not less than twenty-five (25) percent of any
front or rear building face shall be made up of window, opening (breezeways),
garage door areas or man door areas. Not less than fifteen (15) percent of any
side building face shall be made up of windows or door areas unless an
adjacent building within twenty (20) feet of that side face obscures the majority
of that side face from public view. The front of the building is defined as the
elevation which includes the primary entrance of the building.
     15. Pedestrian pathways shall be provided between access points, entryways,
     public gathering nodes, and parking areas.



Landscape

     1. The landscaping shall define and enhance primary public entrances into
     each project.

     2. Ornamental landscaping shall be strategically designed to provide intimate
     outdoor spaces for public amenities and at pedestrian pathways and entrances.

     3. Landscape design shall promote water conservation by the use of water- wise,
     drip irrigation, and drought tolerant plant types.

     4. The tree palette for each project shall be a combination of deciduous and
     non-deciduous trees and shade and ornamental trees.

     5. The initial tree size shall have a minimum 2-inch caliper and be a minimum 6-ft
     high.

     6. Landscaping berms measuring 3-feet in height will be used around the
     perimeter of the office park, when possible, to help minimize the visual impact of
     the parking field.

     7. Parking to be screened with landscaping when possible, including the
     proposed parking structure.

     8. Minimum 5’ of landscaping is required around perimeter of the entire project.

     9. Public Use Space (private or public): Public Use Space maybe in the form of
     landscape areas, landscape areas with walkways, hardscape areas, pool
     deck/pool/spa areas, areas with a change in hardscape such as color/material
     changes, areas with lighting such as bollards or pole lighting, and the 600 west
     pedestrian zone (landscaping, 4’ soft path, 8’ concrete sidewalk). Public use
     spaces shall equal at least 15% of the project area. See Exhibit C.

     10. All multiple-family projects shall submit a landscaping plan in accordance
     with Chapter 23, “Landscaping and Screening,” of this title unless otherwise
     specified within these development guidelines.

     11. Landscaping shall be used as a land use buffer where appropriate, especially
     between the parking structure and the adjacent hotel.

     12. Detention basins shall be adequately landscaped and maintained.

     13. Drought tolerant landscaping is highly encouraged.
Parking

      1. The parking for office buildings shall be a minimum of 3 stalls per 1,000 square
      feet.

      2. The parking for retail shall be a minimum of 1.87 stalls per 1,000 square feet
      and parking for restaurants will be 6 stalls per 1,000 sq. ft.

      3. The parking for daycare facilities shall provide 2 stalls per 1,000 square feet.

      4. The parking for hotels shall provide 1 stall per sleeping unit with an additional 5
      stalls for employees.

      5. Parking stalls shall be 18-feet in length and 9-feet in width.

      6. Landscape islands will measure 8-feet in width and 18-feet in length shall be
      placed at either end of parking rows longer than 16 stalls.

      7. The parking for residential buildings shall be a minimum of 1.68 stalls per
      dwelling unit. Driveways and garages shall count towards total parking
      requirements. Driveways shall be 20-feet in depth.

      8. Parking to be screened with landscaping when possible.

      9. Parking Structures will be allowed (if needed as determined by the developer)
      as part of the project to accommodate higher density land uses, otherwise
      surface parking will be the main form of parking for all land uses.

             -Parking structures shall include the use of the same or consistent building

             façade materials as the office building(s) and be designed as an integral

             component of the site plan and architectural theme. Acceptable
             complementary materials added to the concrete parking structure are
             those that are similar in durability, color and/or appearance of the office
             building facades.

             -Parking structures shall follow best CPTED practices and provide for well-lit

             and visible pedestrian corridors, visible parking areas, security devices,

             and natural surveillance both inside and outside of the structure.

             -Landscaping and architectural materials, forms, and scale shall be used
             to enhance the parking structure.

             -Pedestrian pathways shall connect the pedestrian exit from the parking

             structure to the buildings it serves.

             -When adjacent to a public right-of-way, the building design shall include

             human scale detailing to enhance the relationship with the pedestrian.
      10. Shared parking is encouraged. Parking between adjacent land uses (such as
      office and residential) may share up to 10% of the total parking required per this
      code if a parking analysis is completed and accepted by the city.

Lighting

      1. Parking lot lighting in commercial areas shall provide adequate illumination at
      a minimum .5 foot-candles and max of 4 foot-candles.

      2. Parking lot lighting in commercial areas shall utilize cutoff type fixtures.

      3. Parking lot lighting in commercial areas shall not be taller than 30-feet.

      4. All residential areas shall submit a lighting plan that illustrates lighting
      accommodation for automobile and pedestrian networks.

      5. Exterior lighting along streets shall be pedestrian in scale.

      6. Low level bollard lighting is encouraged for illumination of internal pedestrian
      pathways.

Signage

The following standards are for all uses within the Veranda West MAP.

      1. Each monument sign shall have a uniform, architecturally compatible design,
      with faces not larger than one hundred (100) square feet. Monument signs shall
      not exceed seven feet (7') in height and fourteen feet (14') in width.

      2. Wall signs may be installed by individual businesses/buildings on freestanding
      and in-line single-/multi-tenant buildings and on hotels. Signs shall have
      individually illuminated letters or decorative sign cabinets. Where sign cabinets
      are utilized, they shall be built into the architectural fascia.

      3. Suspended, Blade Type Project Signs: Suspended or blade type projecting
      signs are allowed provided they are not more than fifty (50) square feet of sign
      area. Each elevation will be allowed one suspended or blade type sign.
      Suspended or blade type signs may be provided along pedestrian walkways
      and shall maintain a minimum clearance of seven feet (7') above the
      pavement.

      4. Tower Signs: One tower sign shall be allowed for each hotel. The sign may be
      a multi-tenant sign and shall be no taller than forty feet (40') with a maximum
      sign area of two hundred (200) square feet.

      5. The location of all signs must be approved by the City Engineer to ensure
      clearance of sight distance requirements.

      6. All monument and tower signs shall be located outside of any public utility
      easement.
Commercial, Office and Retail Uses: Commercial, office and retail uses shall be allowed

the following:

       1. One monument sign is allowed per office building and one monument sign is
       allowed at the entrance to each office district.

       2. Wall signs shall be allowed for every one linear foot of building length, two (2)
       square feet of wall signage on hotel, office and retail buildings.

       3. Wayfinding signs shall be allowed in the project. The overall height shall not
       exceed eight feet (8' and the area of the sign shall not exceed one hundred
       (100) square feet.

       4. Flags or banners placed on light poles shall be at least seven feet (7') above
       the pavement.

Residential Uses: Each residential use shall be allowed the following signage:

       1. Two (2) freestanding monument signs per the standards outlined above.

       2. Portable banner signs, with a maximum area of fifty (50) square feet shall be

       allowed in each residential sub-phase.

       3. Flags and A-frame signs shall be allowed during lease times for each
       residential project.

       4. Wall signs are permitted as follows: for every one (1) linear foot of building
       length, two (2) square feet of wall signage shall be allowed on each building
       elevation.

       5. Electronic message signs are permitted on any residential building. All
       electronic message signs shall comply with subsection below.

Electronic message signs are permitted on any hotel, office or retail building. Tower
signs for hotels may also be electronic message signs. All electronic message signs
shall comply with subsection below.

       1. Full color messages or images only and the use of single colored text and
       images is prohibited.

       2. Each message/advertisement displayed on an EMC shall remain static for a

       minimum of eight (8) seconds. Animation, flashing, starburst or other similar

       frame effects are prohibited.
Pixel pitch shall be as follows:

       1. EMC’s within the MAP, but not directed toward Bangerter Highway shall have
       a true pixel pitch between one millimeter (1 mm) and ten millimeters (10 mm)
       due to closer proximity of travelers to signs.

       2. EMC’s directed toward Bangerter Highway shall have a true pixel pitch
       between one millimeter (1 mm) and sixteen millimeters (16 mm) due to higher
       speeds and distance between travelers and signs.

       3. No EMC shall utilize a white or solid colored background for greater than or
       equal to fifty percent (50%) of the sign area.

       4. All EMC’s are required to comply with the following LED sign illumination
       requirements:

              -All permitted EMC’s shall be equipped with a sensor or other device that
              automatically determines the ambient illumination and is programmed to
              automatically dim according to ambient light conditions, or that can be
              adjusted to comply with the 0.3 foot-candle measurements. In addition,
              EMCs must have a default mechanism to turn off the sign within twenty
              four (24) hours of a reported malfunction.

              -Sign illumination levels for EMC’s shall never, at maximum display intensity,
              exceed 0.3 foot-candle over ambient lighting conditions when measured
              at the distance based on the formula of square root of area of sign times
              one hundred (100). Light cutoff devices shall minimize light above the
              sign.

              -The illuminance of an EMC shall be measured with an illuminance meter
              set to measure foot-candles accurate to at least two (2) decimals.
              Illuminance shall be measured with the EMC off, and again with the EMC
              displaying a white image. All measurements shall be taken perpendicular
              to the face of the EMC at the distance determined by the total square
              footage of the EMC as set forth in this subsection.

              -The applicant shall submit a photometric matrix (showing the dispersal in
              foot-candles)showing that the sign meets all the requirements of this
              code.

              -The owner shall be required to submit written certification from the sign
              manufacturer that the light intensity shall not exceed the maximum levels
              specified in the above table and photocell dimming prior to the issuance
              of a sign permit.
                                                                                      APARTMENTS


                                                              13490 SOUTH
                                                                                      MORTGAGE BUILDING

                                                                                      HOMEWOOD SUITS HOTEL




                                        S T
                                     WE
                                    600
                                                   Y
                                                  W
                                              H
                                         ER                                           JORDAN RIVER PARKWAY
                                       RT                     13800 SOUTH
                                     E
                                    G
                              A N                                                     FRONT RUNNER TRACK
                             B



                                                                                      PRISION REDEVELOPMENT SITE




                                                                              N




PROJECT VICINITY MAP                                   VERANDA WEST MASTER PLAN
                                                                        DRAPER - UT

PROJECT NUMBER AE 2023.111                                          29 JANUARY 2025
                             APARTMENTS              AMENITY SPACES      TOWNHOME DESIGN




CONCEPT ELEVATIONS                        VERANDA WEST MASTER PLAN
                                                           DRAPER - UT

PROJECT NUMBER AE 2023.111                             29 JANUARY 2025
                             RETAIL              OFFICE/DAYCARE      HOTEL




CONCEPT ELEVATIONS                    VERANDA WEST MASTER PLAN
                                                       DRAPER - UT

PROJECT NUMBER AE 2023.111                         29 JANUARY 2025
                                                                                   THE AUSTIN TOWNHOMES


                                                                                                                                                      LANDSCAPE BUFFER


                                                                                                                                                       CONVENIENCE STORE + FUEL
       N




                                                                                                                                                      RETAIL & RESTAURANT


                                                                                                                                                      OFFICE BUILDING
OVERALL SITE TABULATIONS

TOTAL SITE AREA:                     31.27 ACRES
TOTAL RESIDENTIAL UNITS :            721
TOTAL RESIDENTIAL DENSITY:           40.0 UNITS/ACRE
TOTAL OPEN SPACE AREA:               ±7.4 ACRES
                                                                                                                                                      RETAIL & RESTAURANT
TOTAL PARKING PROVIDED:              ±2009

TOWN HOME SUMMARY                                      CONVIENIENCE STORE
SITE AREA:                           8.9 ACRES         SITE AREA:                            1.4 ACRES
UNITS :                              121               UNITS :                               1
DENSITY:                             15 UNITS/ACRE     DENSITY:                              NA
OPEN SPACE AREA:                     2.5 ACRES         OPEN SPACE AREA:                      ± 8,787 SQFT
REQUIRED PARKING (1.68/UNIT):        203               REQUIRED PARKING (1.87/1,000 sq. ft): 7.5
PARKING PROVIDED (2.8/UNIT):         337               PARKING PROVIDED :                    23
    SURFACE PARKING:                 11
    DRIVEWAY PARKING:                84
    GARAGE PARKING:                  242               DAYCARE SUMMARY
                                                       SITE AREA:                           1.6 ACRES
APARTMENTS SUMMARY                                     UNITS :                              1
SITE AREA:                           9.1 ACRES         DENSITY:                             NA              RETAIL
UNITS :                              600               OPEN SPACE AREA:                     ± 29,537 SQFT
DENSITY:                             65.9 UNITS/ACRE   REQUIRED PARKING (2/1,000 sq. ft):   21
OPEN SPACE AREA:                     ± 52,000 SQFT     PARKING PROVIDED:                    56
REQUIRED PARKING (1.68/UNIT):        1008
PARKING PROVIDED (1.8/UNIT):         1080
    SURFACE PARKING:                 36
    GARAGE PARKING:                  1044                                                                   DAY CARE
HOTEL SUMMARY
SITE AREA:                           2.3 ACRES
UNITS :                              122
DENSITY:                             NA
OPEN SPACE AREA:                     ± 28,117 SQFT                                                           HOTEL
REQUIRED PARKING (1.68/UNIT):        127
PARKING PROVIDED (1.8/UNIT):         155


RETAIL & RESTAURANT SUMMARY
SITE AREA:                            5.7 ACRES                                                     APARTMENTS
UNITS :                               10
DENSITY:                              NA
OPEN SPACE AREA:                      ± 65,764 SQFT
REQUIRED PARKING (1.87/1,000 sq. ft): 69
PARKING PROVIDED :                    235                                                       PARKING GARAGE
OFFICE SUMMARY
SITE AREA:                           2.27 ACRES
UNITS :                              2 LEVELS
DENSITY:                             NA
OPEN SPACE AREA:                     ± 29,537 SQFT
REQUIRED PARKING (3/1,000 sq. ft):   82
PARKING PROVIDED:                    121




  CONCEPT SITE PLAN                                                                                                    VERANDA WEST MASTER PLAN
                                                                                                                                        DRAPER - UT

  PROJECT NUMBER AE 2023.111

MASTER SITE PLAN
                                                                                                                                    29 JANUARY 2025
                             TOWNHOMES
                             RESIDENTIAL
                                 TSD-3
                              ±8.9 ACRES
                                                                         PHASE 01
                                                             RETAIL, RESTAURANT, CONNIVANCE
                                                                  STORE + FUEL DAYCARE
                                                                            TSD-3
                                                                        ± 7.0 ACRES



                                                                                                PHASE 03
                                                                                              APARTMENTS
                                                                                                   TSD-3
                                                                                               ± 9.1 ACRES




                                            PHASE 02
                                     COMMERCIAL OFFICE, HOTEL
                                               TSD-3
                                           ± 8.7 ACRES




LANDUSE GRAPHICS                                VERANDA WEST MASTER PLAN
                                                                 DRAPER - UT

PROJECT NUMBER AE 2023.111                                   29 JANUARY 2025
                                                            LEGEND
                                                            PEDESTRIAN / BICYCLE CIRCULATION
                                                            PRIVATE PATHWAYS & CIRCULATION
                                                            VEHICULAR ARTERIAL ROADWAY
                                                            VEHICULAR CIRCULATION
                                                            DRIVE THROUGH

                                                            FULL ACCESS/LIGHT SIGNAL

                                                            RIGHT IN, RIGHT OUT

                                                            AMENITIES AREAS




                                                            TRAIL LENGTHS
                                                            PERIMETER TRAIL:                   ± 1.6 MILES


                                                            TOTAL TRAILS:                      ± 3.5 MILES




CIRCULATION AND PATHWAYS     VERANDA WEST MASTER PLAN
                                              DRAPER - UT

PROJECT NUMBER AE 2023.111                29 JANUARY 2025
                                                                                 LEGEND
                                                                                 PUBLIC
                                                                                 RETAIL/COMMERCIAL
                                                                                 SEMI PRIVATE ACCESS
                                                                                 TOWNHOMES


                                                                                 TOTAL OPEN SPACE




OPEN SPACES                                       VERANDA WEST MASTER PLAN
                                                                   DRAPER - UT

PROJECT NUMBER AE 2023.111                                     29 JANUARY 2025




                             SCALE 1" = 100' 0"
               EXHIBIT G
EXISTING VERANDA WEST MASTER AREA PLAN
                               VERANDA                 WEST
Veranda West is located on the North West corner of the newly constructed intersection of
Bangerter Highway and 600 West. The parcel of land is long and narrow and consists of
approximately 32 acres. The development plan (see attached) consists of a mix of uses such as
multi-family residential, office, and retail.

The north and south ends are planned for multi-family, a combination of townhome and stacked
flats. The middle of the property is planned up to four retail pads (approximately 20,000 sq. ft.)
and up to two office building (approximately 250,000 sq. ft.).

The proposed land uses fit within the area plan specifications a mixed-use, high-density project
containing office, multi-family and retail.

The main entrance for the project will be at the future signal on 600 west. There will be two
more access points on 600 west (one north and one south of the signal). This project will also
share an access point to the north with the Veranda apartments, giving this project access to
Vista Station BLVD.

The transportation systems within the MAP area are mostly in existence including collector and
arterial streets (Bangerter Highway, 600 West Street, Vista Station Blvd, Frontrunner Blvd, 200
West), and Frontrunner.

Storm drainage and other utilities have been reviewed for capacity and are available for the site
development (See attached utility map).

Architectural and site design standards for the MAP are outlined in the Development Guidelines
(See attached), including setback and parking standards. The project will be designed in such a
way as to promote compatibility between the MAP area and adjoining properties. If applicable
(based on market conditions), structured parking shall be designed to be compatible with the
project in general.

The estimated sequence and timing of development of the subject parcel will be in an estimated
3 phases (Residential, Office and Retail) with phase 1 starting in 2-5 years. Construction and
phasing will be based on market conditions. There are no major public improvements or off-site
infrastructure improvements or facilities required or anticipated to be required in connection
with the development of the MAP other than the standard wet and dry utilities.

A comprehensive sign program has included in the Development Guidelines (See attached).

This Memorandum and site plan have been reviewed by the Architectural Control Committee
members, Nate Boyer of The Boyer Company, and Mark Murdock of the Gardner Company.
Veranda West Architectural and Site Development Guidelines


Development Standards: Site development will occur in accordance with Chapter 9-14 Transit
Station District (TSD) of the Draper City Municipal Code and the following development standards.

Development A r e a s : Based on land use, each building shall comply with the
following development standards:

Office

   1. The architecture shall be the primary tool to create a strong sense of identity and
      place throughout the office district. All buildings will be articulated with use-
      appropriate scale, form, materials, and colors carefully considered and
      incorporated throughout the development phases.

   2. All building facades shall have the same character each utilizing the same materials,
      colors, features, forms, and design elements appropriate to the scale of the various
      building sizes.

   3. Building primary materials shall consist of granite, metal, composite metal panel,
      stone, EFIS, concrete, GFRC or tile.

   4.    More than one material shall be required on all building facades.

   5.    Buildings shall have a minimum of 40% high efficiency glazing.

   6.    Buildings shall use 50% of a primary material.

   7. Buildings shall have notable entry features which could include: An arch or canopy
      over entry doors, Colors or materials that highlight the entry, Entry doors and lobby
      that extend beyond or are recessed behind the main footprint of the building.

   8. All mechanical equipment shall be screened from view, either by enclosure, parapet
      wall, or line of sight.

   9.    Dumpsters shall be enclosed within a decorative masonry, split face CMU or honed
         CMU enclosure.

   10. The minimum front setback from right-of-way or exterior property lines shall be 10-
      feet.


   11. Building material placement and material colors shall be used to distinguish office
      building elevations from other office buildings in the immediate area, as
      approved by the ACC.
   12. A common plaza shall be built for the office building(s) and shall include outdoor
         furniture and two of the following: fire pit, covered shelter, pavilion, trellis, water
         feature, outdoor art or seat walls, etc.

Retail

    1.   The minimum setback from right-of-way or exterior property lines shall be 10-feet.

    2.   Minimum building height shall be one-story.

    3.   More than one material shall be required on all building facades.

    4. Building primary materials shall consist of granite, metal, composite metal panel,
       stone, EFIS, concrete, GFRC, tile or other similar material as approved by the ACC.

    5. Dumpsters shall be enclosed within a decorative masonry, split face CMU or honed
       CMU enclosure.

    6. A minimum of two outdoor eating plazas shall be built for the retail buildings and
       shall include outdoor furniture and each outdoor eating plaza shall include two of
       the following: fire pit, covered shelter, pavilion, trellis, water feature, outdoor art
       or seat walls, etc.

Residential (stacked flats and townhomes)

Residential Buildings shall be classified as either ‘Livable Residential’ (i.e. Stacked Flats and Townhomes)
or ‘Non-livable Residential’ (i.e. Clubhouse and Maintenance Building).

    1. All Residential bBuildings (within a sub-phase (i.e. townhomes or stacked flats)) shall
       share the same unique architectural theme including, but not limited to, colors,
       materials, rooflines and entries. In addition, Livable Residential shall also share
       the same unique architectural theme in regards to rooflines and entries.

    2. All Residential Buildings materials shall consist of at least three material types.

    3. All Livable Residential There shall be a variety of floor plans/unit sizes within each
       sub-phase area.

    4. Livable Residential - Townhome amenities – Outdoor plaza with seating and either
       a fire pit or a BBQ area, a tot lot, grass play area and an indoor exercise facility.
       Livable Residential - Stacked flat amenities - A Clubhouse with a club room,
       exercise facility and pool with spa and one outdoor plaza with a fire pit. Other
       amenities to be determined by developer based on product type.

    5. All Residential Buildings will be Each separate building will be connected by
       internal walkways with shared use of outdoor common areas.

    6. All Residential Buildings Multi-family buildings shall have roofs clad in asphalt
       shingles, wood shingles, standing seam metal, a similar, or a combination of similar
       materials or shall have flat roofs.
   7. Livable Residential Every multi-family building elevation that faces a public street
      or internal main private street or public open space, shall have either a porch,
      balcony, private patio or windows.

   8. Residential Buildings with Aany pitched roof covering the main body of the
      structure shall be hip style, monopitch or shed style, flat roofs or shall have
      symmetrical gables.

   9. Livable Residential Rroof forms shall be designed to emphasize the residential units
      when possible and shall denote building elements and functions, including primary
      pedestrian entrances.

   10. Residential Building setbacks are as follows: 20-feet from right-of-way or exterior
       property lines. Parking shall be allowed in setback areas along with garbage
       dumpsters.
   11. Livable Residential Bbuilding design and orientation should consider exposure to
       sunlight to avoid energy inefficiencies.
   12. Prohibited materials. Vinyl and aluminum siding products are prohibited as wall
       materials.
   13. Livable Residential Ccolor scheme. The use of a single-color scheme, minimal
       detailing, or blank (or largely blank) walls is not permitted. The use of exterior
       stairs is discouraged.
   14. Livable Residential Oopenings. Not less than twenty-five (25) percent of any front
       or rear building face shall be made up of window, opening (breezeways), garage
       door areas or man door areas. Not less than fifteen (15) percent of any side
       building face shall be made up of windows or door areas unless an adjacent
       building within twenty (20) feet of that side face obscures the majority of that
       side face from public view. The front of the building is defined as the elevation
       which includes the primary entrance of the building.

   15. Pedestrian pathways shall be provided between access points, entryways, public
       gathering nodes, and parking areas.

Landscape

   1.   The landscaping shall define and enhance primary public entrances into each
        project.

   2. Ornamental landscaping shall be strategically designed to provide intimate outdoor
      spaces for public amenities and at pedestrian pathways and entrances.

   3. Landscape design shall promote water conservation by the use of water- wise, drip
      irrigation, and drought tolerant plant types.

   4. The tree palette for each project shall be a combination of deciduous and non-
      deciduous trees and shade and ornamental trees.
   5.   The initial tree size shall have a minimum 2-inch caliper and be a minimum 6-ft
        high.

   6.    Landscaping berms measuring 3-feet in height will be used around the perimeter of
        the office park, when possible, to help minimize the visual impact of the parking field.

   7. Parking to be screened with landscaping when possible, including the proposed
      parking structure.

   8.     Minimum 5’ of landscaping is required around perimeter of the entire project.

   9. Public Use Space (private or public): Public Use Space maybe in the form of
      landscape areas, landscape areas with walkways, hardscape areas, pool
      deck/pool/spa areas, areas with a change in hardscape such as color/material
      changes, areas with lighting such as bollards or pole lighting, and the 600 west
      pedestrian zone (landscaping, 4’ soft path, 8’ concrete sidewalk). Public use
      spaces shall equal at least 15% of the project area. See Exhibit C.

   10. All multiple-family projects shall submit a landscaping plan in accordance with
       Chapter 23, “Landscaping and Screening,” of this title unless otherwise specified
       within these development guidelines.

   11. Landscaping shall be used as a land use buffer where appropriate, especially
       between the parking structure and the adjacent hotel.

   12. Detention basins shall be adequately landscaped and maintained.

   13. Drought tolerant landscaping is highly encouraged.
Parking

   1.    The parking for office buildings shall be a minimum of 3 stalls and per 1,000 square
        feet.

   2.   The parking for retail shall be a minimum of 1.87 stalls per 1,000 square feet and
        parking for restaurants will be 6 stalls per 1,000 sq. ft.

   3.     Parking stalls shall be 18-feet in length and 9-feet in width.

   4. Landscape islands will measure 8-feet in width and 18-feet in length shall be placed
      at either end of parking rows longer than 16 stalls.

   5.   The parking for residential buildings shall be a minimum of 1.68 stalls per dwelling
        unit. Driveways and garages shall count towards total parking requirements.
        Driveways shall be 20-feet in depth.

   6.     Parking to be screened with landscaping when possible.

   7. Parking Structures will be allowed (if needed as determined by the developer) as
      part of the project to accommodate higher density land uses, otherwise surface
        parking will be the main form of parking for all land uses.

               -Parking structures shall include the use of the same or consistent building
               façade materials as the office building(s) and be designed as an integral
               component of the site plan and architectural theme. Acceptable
               complementary materials added to the concrete parking structure are those
               that are similar in durability, color and/or appearance of the office building
               facades.

               -Parking structures shall follow best CPTED practices and provide for well-
               lit and visible pedestrian corridors, visible parking areas, security devices,
               and natural surveillance both inside and outside of the structure.

               -Landscaping and architectural materials, forms, and scale shall be used to
               enhance the parking structure.
               -Pedestrian pathways shall connect the pedestrian exit from the parking
               structure to the buildings it serves.
               -When adjacent to a public right-of-way, the building design shall include
               human scale detailing to enhance the relationship with the pedestrian.

   8. Shared parking is encouraged. Parking between adjacent land uses (such as office
      and residential) may share up to 10% of the total parking required per this code if
      a parking analysis is completed and accepted by the city.

Lighting

   1.   Parking lot lighting in commercial areas shall provide adequate illumination at a
        minimum .5 foot-candles and max of 4 foot-candles.

   2.   Parking lot lighting in commercial areas shall utilize cutoff type fixtures.

   3.   Parking lot lighting in commercial areas shall not be taller than 30-feet.

   4.    All residential areas shall submit a lighting plan that illustrates lighting
        accommodation for automobile and pedestrian networks.

   5. Exterior lighting along streets shall be pedestrian in scale.

   6. Low level bollard lighting is encouraged for illumination of internal pedestrian
      pathways.

Signage

        The following standards are for all uses within the Veranda West MAP.

   1. Each monument sign shall have a uniform, architecturally compatible design, with
      faces not larger than one hundred (100) square feet. Monument signs shall not
      exceed seven feet (7') in height and fourteen feet (14') in width.
   2. Wall signs may be installed by individual businesses/buildings on freestanding and
      in-line single-/multi-tenant buildings and on hotels. Signs shall have individually
      illuminated letters or decorative sign cabinets. Where sign cabinets are utilized,
      they shall be built into the architectural fascia.

   3. Suspended, Blade Type Project Signs: Suspended or blade type projecting signs are
      allowed provided they are not more than fifty (50) square feet of sign area. Each
      elevation will be allowed one suspended or blade type sign. Suspended or blade
      type signs may be provided along pedestrian walkways and shall maintain a
      minimum clearance of seven feet (7') above the pavement.

   4. Tower Signs: One tower sign shall be allowed for each hotel. The sign may be a
      multi-tenant sign and shall be no taller than forty feet (40') with a maximum sign
      area of two hundred (200) square feet.

   5. The location of all signs must be approved by the City Engineer to ensure
      clearance of sight distance requirements.

   6.    All monument and tower signs shall be located outside of any public utility
        easement.

Commercial, Office and Retail Uses: Commercial, office and retail uses shall be allowed
the following:

   1. One monument sign is allowed per office building and one monument sign is
      allowed at the entrance to each office district.

   2. Wall signs shall be allowed for every one linear foot of building length, two (2)
      square feet of wall signage on hotel, office and retail buildings.

   3. Wayfinding signs shall be allowed in the project. The overall height shall not
      exceed eight feet (8' and the area of the sign shall not exceed one hundred (100)
      square feet.

   4.   Flags or banners placed on light poles shall be at least seven feet (7') above the
        pavement.

Residential Uses: Each residential use shall be allowed the following signage:

   1.   Two (2) freestanding monument signs per the standards outlined above.

   2.    Portable banner signs, with a maximum area of fifty (50) square feet shall be
        allowed in each residential sub-phase.

   3.   Flags and A-frame signs shall be allowed during lease times for each residential
        project.

   4.    Wall signs are permitted as follows: for every one (1) linear foot of building
        length, two (2) square feet of wall signage shall be allowed on each building
        elevation.

   5. Electronic message signs are permitted on any residential building. All electronic
      message signs shall comply with subsection below.

Electronic message signs are permitted on any hotel, office or retail building. Tower
signs for hotels may also be electronic message signs. All electronic message signs shall
comply with subsection below.

   1. Full color messages or images only and the use of single colored text and images is
      prohibited.

   2. Each message/advertisement displayed on an EMC shall remain static for a
      minimum of eight (8) seconds. Animation, flashing, starburst or other similar
      frame effects are prohibited.

Pixel pitch shall be as follows:

   1.    EMC’s within the MAP, but not directed toward Bangerter Highway may shall have
        a true pixel pitch between one millimeter (1 mm) and ten millimeters (10 mm) due
        to closer proximity of travelers to signs.

   2.   EMC’s directed toward Bangerter Highway shall have a true pixel pitch between
        one millimeter (1 mm) and sixteen millimeters (16 mm) due to higher speeds and
        distance between travelers and signs.

   3.    No EMC shall utilize a white or solid colored background for greater than or equal
        to fifty percent (50%) of the sign area.

   4.    All EMC’s are required to comply with the following LED sign illumination
        requirements:

        -All permitted EMC’s shall be equipped with a sensor or other device that
        automatically determines the ambient illumination and is programmed to
        automatically dim according to ambient light conditions, or that can be adjusted
        to comply with the 0.3 foot-candle measurements. In addition, EMCs must have a
        default mechanism to turn off the sign within twenty four (24) hours of a reported
        malfunction.

        -Sign illumination levels for EMC’s shall never, at maximum display intensity,
        exceed 0.3 foot-candle over ambient lighting conditions when measured at the
        distance based on the formula of square root of area of sign times one hundred
        (100). Light cutoff devices shall minimize light above the sign.

        -The illuminance of an EMC shall be measured with an illuminance meter set to
        measure foot-candles accurate to at least two (2) decimals. Illuminance shall be
        measured with the EMC off, and again with the EMC displaying a white image. All
        measurements shall be taken perpendicular to the face of the EMC at the distance
        determined by the total square footage of the EMC as set forth in this subsection.
-The applicant shall submit a photometric matrix (showing the dispersal in foot-
candles) showing that the sign meets all the requirements of this code.

-The owner shall be required to submit written certification from the sign
manufacturer that the light intensity shall not exceed the maximum levels
specified in the above table and photocell dimming prior to the issuance of a sign
permit.
           VERANDA WEST




                 CONCEPTUAL MASTER AREA PLAN - FEBRUARY 2019




..,,dllll~ WASATCH       B BOYER        GARDNER COMPANY
                                           Bu1U1nq :om,· 1un1ty   Fzo/ftus.
                                                                  INt ;1:,. ( f RIMi &,lJRVf ' l '-G LLC
                                                                                         STORAGE CRAFT




                                                                                             ACA D rMY MORTGAG[




                                                                                         HILTON HOMEWOOD SUITES




    I HONI RUNN[II RI\IL LIN[




                                                                                             PRISON REDEVELOPMENT SIH



                                                                                 /' ......
                                                                                    ~
                                                                                    Scale 1:600



   PROJECT VIC/NIT Y MAP            ....
                                       II
                                ...,,,11~,
                                            WA)ArCII
                                           ----.....-   Ei) BOYER   GAKl>NEK C0,\ 11',\NY
                                                                        B.                          F'kus
                                                                                                    ,,,_.1,1u,1-.., ...   -i.·""••-.. ur   E
               >­
               z




               a:
               w
V)
w
2
               ~
               ID
0
::c
z              cm
~
0
I-




               V')
    V)
    w          <
    er:        a
               I-
          I-   <t:
          V)   :::.
          w    l..u

          ~ l..u
               ...J


               ...J
          <t   <t:
          0    :.)
               I-
 V)
 I-       z    Q._
 <!
 _,       <t l..u
             u
 u.
 0
          ex: <
 w        w a
 ::.,:
 u        > u
 <!
 I-
 V)
          
       OFFICE


                         RETAIL




 VERANDA WEST                  .._
 CONCEPTUAL ELEVATIONS
                          ..•,,,11II"'"'
                                           WASATC I I
                                             .....-
                                                        Ei) BOYER   GA IW1'1.I{ C0,\11'. \NY
                                                                         a.                    F-kus
                                                                                                       II
                                                  TOT LOT
                                                · TOWNHOMES




                                                                                         · RETAIL--···1
   POTENTIAL GU EST··-----·--··· ··
   PARKING AREAS, TYP.
                                                                                                         II

                                                                                                                                                                             ,.,, -+rt- "" 1-
                                                                                                                                                                                   L . .s-
                                                                                                                                                  CONCEPTUAL ELEVATION (Bl

OVERALL SITETABULATIONS
TOTAL SITE AREA·                32.81 ACRES
TOTAL RESIDENTIAL UNITS:        386
TOTAL RESIDENTIAL DENSITY:      11.8 UNITS/ACRE
TOTAL OPEN SPACE AREA:          9.6 ACRES
TOTAL PARKING PROVIDED:         196S




TOWN HOME SUMMARY                                    OFFICE SUM MARY
SITE AREA:                      8.07 ACRES           SITE AREA:                        12.34 ACRES
UNITS:                          121                  TOTAL OFFICEBUILDINGS AREA:       +/· 250,000 FT'
DENSITY:                        IS UNITS/ACRE        OFFICE OPEN SPACE AREA:           (SHAREDPUBLIC)
OPEN SPACE AREA:                2.5 ACRES            FLOOR AREA RATIO:                 0.47
REQUIRED PARKING (1.68/UNIT):   203                  REQUIRED PARKING (3/1,000 FT'):   750
PARKING PROVIDED (2.8/UNIT):    337                  PARKING PROVIDED:                 96S                                                                                      STACKED FLA TS
   SURFACE PARKING:             II                      SURFACE PARKING:               965                                                                                      72 Units Per Bldg.
   DRIVEWAY PARKING:            84                      DRIVEWAY PARKING:
   GARAGE PARKING:              242                     GARAGE PARKING:
                                                                                                                                     B
STACKED FLATS SUMMARY                                RETAIL SUMMARY
SITE AREA :                     9.06 ACRES           SITE AREA:                        3.34 ACRES ACRES
UNITS:                          265                  TOTAL RETA IL AREA (4 SLOGS)      ±20,00Q Ff1                          CLU BHOUSE
DENSITY:                        29 UNITS/ACRE        PARKING (6/1,000 FT'):            120 (ASSUMING 100% RESTAURANTS)
OPEN SPACE AREA:                1.SACRES             RETAIL PARKING PROVIDED:          13S
                                                                                                                         STACKED FLATS
REQUIRED PARKING (1.68/UNIT):   44S
PARKING PROVIDED (1.8/UNIT):    484                                                                                      49-Plex
   SURFACE PARKING:             340
   DRIVEWAY PARKING :           72
   GA~      ARKING:             72




                                                                                                                              B BOYER         .
                                                                                                                                         GA t(D:--.E I( co~11•A1' Y
                                                                                                                                                                      F~         US
              CONCEPT A
...c::::n·c::::::o L... \

 D~
                       ~ \          RESIDENTIAL
                       t> \,_
                 i ~--.,,....,,        TSD-3
                                     8.07 acres
 ...     ~                           ·•   .•,
                   f?f:/
                  /::t'f:l!J,' :y    ~ -!t!S -•....
                                    (t»_' -,,,                           RETAIL



                             ~Jj O/j ~~ ~ ~:'.""
                                                                          TSD-3




                                   0/jO/jO (/::'!1::5 c:;--                                                     OFFICE
                                                                                                                TSD-3
                                                                                                              12.34 acres




                                                                                     'lllll9JII
                                                RETAIL                                     '1111111
                                                 10.2%                                                -:r.m                                 .,           RESIDENT"
                                                                                                                                                 ',.,,      TSO



                                                           RESIDENTIAL
                             OFFICE                      52.2%
                               37.6%




                                                                                                                                                                     \
  CONCEPT A
       L A ND US E                                                                ..,,ill~ WA~-~~CI I         ~ BOYER       (~ARD/\'EI< CO~t l'ANY
                                                                                                                                B    t
                                                                                                                                                         F*-cus
          Scale: nts
                                                                                                                                                                         I
                                                            0    LEG E ND

                                                                          PEDES I RIAN/ BICYCLE ClRCULAflON

                                                                          VEII ICULAR CIRCULATION

                                                                                ACCfSS POINTS



                                                                 T R AI L         L E NGT H S
                                                                 PFHIMfTC H TRAIL                   t 1 6 MILf S

                                                                 TOTAL TflA ILS                     • 3.5 M ILL~




 CONCEPT A
 CIR CUL AT/ON & AC CES S
 ~   Scale: nts
                            ...,,IIIII~ WA;;~;C II   ErJ BOYER       GAR I>:-. LR C0,\ 11',\r-. Y
                                                                           F:   .J" I                     Fk us
                                                                                                                   IJ
                                                          OPEN       S PA CE           LEGEND

                                                      -           PUBLIC . . .            . . .. •5.04 Mres

                                                      -           STACKCD FL/ITS                 .. • l.8 acres

                                                                  TOWN HOMES                     .. 12 5 acres

                                                      -           RETAIL. . . .          . . .     . • 0.27 Jues

                                                                          TOT/IL OPEN SPACL ... 9.6 acres (29%)




 CONCEPT A
                      111...    WAS ATC I I
 OPEN SPACE
                ...,,,1111~ ,    ~            E'iJ BOYER    G11 1w;-..1.K Co~11>.\1'\
                                                                 e.           .              Fit'i:US
                                                                                             1,,   ,,ru1,,,._u f\01"· u,·
   Scale: nts
       EXHIBIT H
PROPOSED TEXT AMENDMENT
EXHIBIT 9-14-1
