                                     Development Review Committee
                                         1020 East Pioneer Road
                                            Draper, UT 84020
                                            October 29, 2025

To:              Draper City Planning Commission
                 Business Date: November 13, 2025

From:            Development Review Committee

Prepared By: Todd Taylor, Planner III
             Planning Division
             Community Development Department
             801-576-6510, todd.taylor@draperutah.gov

Re:       Water Use and Preservation Element – General Plan Amendment Request
          Application No.: 2025-0258-TA
          Applicant:        Draper City
          Project Location: City Wide
          Request:          Request for adoption of the Water Use and Preservation Element
                            as part of the General Plan in compliance with Utah State Code.


BACKGROUND AND SUMMARY

This application is a request for adoption of the Water Use and Preservation Element as
Chapter 7 of the Draper City General Plan. In 2022, Senate Bill (SB) 110 added new text to the
general plan section of the Utah State Code (USC) requiring municipalities to adopt a Water
Use and Preservation Element on or before December 31, 2025. In 2023, SB 76 refined the
requirements for the Element. The existing Chapter 7, City Goals and Policies, will become
Chapter 8.


ANALYSIS

This staff report provides general information about the Element, which is attached as
Exhibit B. The requirements for the Element include the following:

      •   The effect of permitted development or patterns of development on water demand
          and water infrastructure;
      •   Methods of reducing water demand and per capita consumption for future




Water Use and Preservation Element                                  App. No: 2025-0258-TA
General Plan Amendment Request                     1
        development;
    •   Methods of reducing water demand and per capita consumption for existing
        development; and
    •   Opportunities for the municipality to modify the municipality's operations to
        eliminate practices or conditions that waste water.

Water System Snapshot.
The Element explores patterns of use in the City’s water systems. Water in Draper City is
supplied by two (2) providers operating three (3) systems:

    •   Draper City system
    •   WaterPro culinary water system
    •   WaterPro irrigation system

Per capita water used in the Draper City system has shown a downward trend, consistent
with state and regional goals for water conservation. Per capita water use within the
WaterPro service area also displays a decreasing trend; however, larger average lot sizes
contribute to higher water use than in the Draper City system.

In both systems, residential use accounts for the highest demand due to the large number
of residential connections. However, residential connections exhibit the lowest and most
consistent water use per connection compared to commercial and institutional connections.

Both systems will also see future water demand increase as new development occurs. At full
buildout, projected demand is expected to exceed existing supply in both systems. Draper
City needs to secure additional contract capacity with the Jordan Valley Water Conservancy
District (JVWCD). WaterPro is planning to develop a system of shallow wells to increase future
irrigation source capacity. In both service areas, continued water conservation could
decrease future water needs and require less source development.

The Draper City system already meets and exceeds the 2030 goal set by the State in the Utah
Regional Municipal and Industrial (M&I) Water Conservation Goals Report, while WaterPro is
making progress towards meeting an 11% reduction by 2030.

Existing Water Conservation.
Water conservation in Draper City spans a range of efforts, including the strategies identified
in the Water Conservation Plans that both systems are required to submit to the State every
five (5) years. The Draper City system continues to rollout Automatic Metering Infrastructure
alongside more efficient leak detection. This allows the City to track and repair leaks and
provide water users the ability to track their water use in real-time. WaterPro is undertaking
a water reuse initiative to supply recycled water from the Jordan Valley Water Reclamation
Facility to its secondary irrigation system. Lastly, Draper City adopted new landscaping
standards in 2023 that are consistent with JVWCD’s Water Efficiency Standards.




Water Use and Preservation Element                                   App. No: 2025-0258-TA
General Plan Amendment Request                2
Goals and Strategies.
The Element proposes six (6) goals and seventeen (17) strategies for increasing water
conservation. These goals and strategies are in addition to the list of existing and developing
water conservation strategies found in the Draper City 2025 Water Conservation Plan (Exhibit
B, Table 9). The proposed goals are:

    •   WU-1. Strengthen the City’s water conservation efforts through dedicated
        leadership, support, and collaboration.
    •   WU-2. Develop additional citywide policies and ordinances that enhance water
        conservation and efficiency through irrigation restrictions for existing
        developments.
    •   WU-3. Reduce water demand through water-conserving development patterns that
        increase development density through mechanisms such as modified lot size and
        configuration.
    •   WU-4. Increase public awareness of water conservation through educational
        programming.
    •   WU-5. Increase public awareness of water conservation through the City’s website,
        social media, and other digital tools
    •   WU-6. Lead by example and increase water efficiency throughout Draper City’s
        public landscapes.

Implementation of the goals and strategies will occur over time as resources become
available. Some of the implementation, including the proposed irrigation restrictions and
modified lot size and configuration standards, will require subsequent decisions by the City
Council, which will occur through the public hearing process.

Criteria For Approval.
Amendments to the General Plan fall under DCMC Section 9-2-020(F). That section lists the
following criteria for a General Plan amendment as:

        Plan Amendment: All plan amendments shall be in accordance with Utah Code
        Annotated 10-9a-404, as amended and, unless requested by the city's legislative body,
        shall follow the procedures as outlined in Draper City Municipal Code 9-5-060(D).”
        That section is noted as follows:

        D.       Procedure: Zoning text and map amendments shall be considered and
                 processed as provided in this subsection:
                 1.    A complete application shall be submitted to the office of the zoning
                       administrator in a form established by the administrator along with
                       any fee established by the city’s schedule of fees. The application shall
                       include at least the following information:
                       a.     The name, address and telephone number of the applicant
                              and the applicant’s agent, if any.



Water Use and Preservation Element                                     App. No: 2025-0258-TA
General Plan Amendment Request                  3
                          b.      The name and address of every person or company the
                                  applicant represents.
                          c.      The requested amendment and reasons supporting the
                                  request.
                          d.      If the proposed amendment requires a change in the zoning
                                  map, the application shall include:
                                  (1)      An accurate property map showing present and
                                           proposed zoning classifications;
                                  (2)      All abutting properties showing present zoning
                                           classifications; and
                                  (3)      An accurate legal description and an approximate
                                           common address of the area proposed to be rezoned.
                          e.      If the proposed amendment requires a change in the text of
                                  this title, the application shall include chapter and section
                                  references and a draft of the proposed text.
                 2.       After the application is determined to be complete, the zoning
                          administrator shall prepare a staff report evaluating the application.
                 3.       The planning commission shall schedule and hold a public hearing on
                          the application as provided in sections 9-5-040 and 9-5-045 of this
                          chapter. Following the public meeting, the planning commission shall
                          recommend approval, approval with modifications, or denial of the
                          proposed amendment and shall submit its recommendation to the
                          city council for review and decision.
                 4.       The city council shall schedule and hold a public hearing on the
                          application as provided in sections 9-5-040 and 9-5-045 of this
                          chapter. Following the public hearing, the city council may approve,
                          approve with modifications, or deny the proposed amendment.

Adoption of the Water Use and Preservation Element also falls under USC Sections 10-20-
404(2)(a)(iv) and 10-20-404(2)(d). These sections list the requirements for the Element as:

Section 10-20-404(2)(a)(iv)

        (iv)     except for a city of the fifth class or a town, a water use and preservation
                 element that addresses:
                 (A)    the effect of permitted development or patterns of development on
                        water demand and water infrastructure;
                 (B)    methods of reducing water demand and per capita consumption for
                        future development;
                 (C)    methods of reducing water demand and per capita consumption for
                        existing development; and
                 (D)    opportunities for the municipality to modify the municipality's
                        operations to eliminate practices or conditions that waste water.



Water Use and Preservation Element                                      App. No: 2025-0258-TA
General Plan Amendment Request                    4
Section 10-20-404(2)(d)

(f)     In drafting the water use and preservation element, the planning commission:
        (i)     shall consider:
                (A)     applicable regional water conservation goals recommended by the
                        Division of Water Resources; and
                (B)     if Section 73-10-32 requires the municipality to adopt a water
                        conservation plan in accordance with Section 73-10-32, the
                        municipality's water conservation plan;
        (ii)    shall include a recommendation for:
                (A)     water conservation policies to be determined by the municipality; and
                (B)     landscaping options within a public street for current and future
                development that do not require the use of lawn or turf in a parkstrip;
        (iii)   shall review the municipality's land use ordinances and include a
                recommendation for changes to an ordinance that promotes the inefficient
                use of water;
        (iv)    shall consider principles of sustainable landscaping, including the:
                (A)     reduction or limitation of the use of lawn or turf;
                (B)     promotion of site-specific landscape design that decreases
                        stormwater runoff or runoff of water used for irrigation;
                (C)     preservation and use of healthy trees that have a reasonable water
                        requirement or are resistant to dry soil conditions;
                (D)     elimination or regulation of ponds, pools, and other features that
                        promote unnecessary water evaporation;
                (E)     reduction of yard waste; and
                (F)     use of an irrigation system, including drip irrigation, best adapted to
                        provide the optimal amount of water to the plants being irrigated;
        (v)     shall consult with the public water system or systems serving the
                municipality with drinking water regarding how implementation of the land
                use element and water use and preservation element may affect:
        (A)     water supply planning, including drinking water source and storage capacity
                consistent with Section 19-4-114; and
        (B)     water distribution planning, including master plans, infrastructure asset
                management programs and plans, infrastructure replacement plans, and
                impact fee facilities plans;
        (vi)    shall consult with the Division of Water Resources for information and
                technical resources regarding regional water conservation goals, including
                how implementation of the land use element and the water use and
                preservation element may affect the Great Salt Lake;
        (vii)   may include recommendations for additional water demand reduction
                strategies, including:
                (A)     creating a water budget associated with a particular type of
                        development;



Water Use and Preservation Element                                    App. No: 2025-0258-TA
General Plan Amendment Request                 5
                 (B)     adopting new or modified lot size, configuration, and landscaping
                         standards that will reduce water demand for new single family
                         development;
                 (C)     providing one or more water reduction incentives for existing
                         development such as modification of existing landscapes and
                         irrigation systems and installation of water fixtures or systems that
                         minimize water demand;
                 (D)     discouraging incentives for economic development activities that do
                         not adequately account for water use or do not include strategies for
                         reducing water demand; and
                 (E)     adopting water concurrency standards requiring that adequate water
                         supplies and facilities are or will be in place for new development; and
        (viii)   for a town, may include, and for another municipality, shall include, a
                 recommendation for low water use landscaping standards for a new:
                 (A)     commercial, industrial, or institutional development;
                 (B)     common interest community, as defined in Section 57-25-102; or
                 (C)     multifamily housing project.


REVIEWS

Planning Division Review. The Draper City Planning Division has completed their review of
the General Plan Amendment. Comments from this division, if any, can be found in Exhibit
A.

Engineering and Public Works Divisions Review. The Draper City Engineering and Public
Works Divisions have completed their review of the General Plan Amendment. Comments
from these divisions, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Noticing. Notice has been properly issued in the manner outlined in the City and State Codes.


STAFF RECOMMENDATION

Staff recommends that the Planning Commission review the request, receive public
comment, and make a recommendation to the City Council regarding approval, approval
with modifications, or denial of the General Plan Amendment based on the findings and
criteria for adoption, or rejection, as listed within the staff report.


MODEL MOTIONS

Sample Motion for a Positive Recommendation – I move that we forward a positive
recommendation to the City Council for the General Plan Amendment, as requested by



Water Use and Preservation Element                                     App. No: 2025-0258-TA
General Plan Amendment Request                   6
Draper City, Application No. 2025-0258-TA, based on the following findings for approval and
the criteria for adoption as listed in the Staff Report dated October 29, 2025.

Findings for approval:

    1. A Public Hearing before the Planning Commission was held in accordance with Utah
       State Code Section 10-20-405.
    2. The General Plan Amendment is consistent with the requirements of Utah State
       Code and is appropriate.



Sample Motion for a Positive Recommendation with Modifications – I move that we forward
a positive recommendation to the City Council for the General Plan Amendment, as
requested by Draper City, Application No. 2025-0258-TA, based on the findings for approval
and the criteria for adoption as listed in the Staff Report dated October 29, 2025, inclusive of
the following additional recommended modifications or findings:

    1. (List any recommended modifications…)
    2. (List any additional findings for approval…)



Sample Motion for a Negative Recommendation – I move that we forward a negative
recommendation to the City Council for the General Plan Amendment, as requested by
Draper City, Application No. 2025-0258-TA, based on the following finding for denial and the
criteria for rejection as listed in the Staff Report dated October 29, 2025.

Finding for denial:

    1. The General Plan Amendment is not consistent with the requirements of Utah State
       Code and is not appropriate.




Water Use and Preservation Element                                    App. No: 2025-0258-TA
General Plan Amendment Request                 7
                                     EXHIBIT A
                                DEPARTMENT REVIEWS

REVIEWS ARE NOT MEANT TO BE AN ALL INCLUSIVE LIST OF POSSIBLE COMMENTS OR
CONDITIONS.



Planning Division Review.

   1. Minor typographical, clerical, and formatting changes may be made to the plan
      presented to the Planning Commission before the final version is presented to the
      City Council.

Engineering and Public Works Divisions Review.

   1. No additional comments received.
             EXHIBIT B
WATER USE AND PRESERVATION ELEMENT
WATER USE &
PRESERVATION
Chapter 7
Introduction
Utah’s significant population growth, coupled with persistent drought conditions and a historic lack of
coordination between land use development and water supply planning has intensified concern regarding
water resources. In direct response to these challenges, the State of Utah adopted S.B. 110, “Water as Part
of the General Plan,” in 2022. This new legislation requires most municipalities to amend their General Plans
to address the impact of land-use planning on water use.
This Element directly addresses this requirement by outlining strategies to ensure responsible water
stewardship in conjunction with land use planning. By exploring the alignment of land use decisions with
water resource realities, this element seeks to build a resilient and sustainable water future for Draper City.

DRAPER WATER SYSTEM SNAPSHOT
Water in Draper City is supplied by two providers (see Map 1 for service area boundaries of each provider)
operating three systems. Each are briefly described below:
•   Draper City System: Draper City operates a drinking water system that supplies areas generally west of I
    -15 and south of 14600 S. The drinking water system supplies water for both indoor and irrigation
    purposes. The Point development, a redevelopment effort led by the Point of the Mountain State Land
    Authority is within the Draper City system.
•   WaterPro Culinary Water System: WaterPro operates a drinking water system that supplies areas
    generally east of I-15 and north of 14600 S. The drinking water system provides indoor water to all
    customers served by WaterPro. It also provides irrigation water for some customers.
•   WaterPro Irrigation System: WaterPro operates a pressurized irrigation system that supplies areas
    generally east of I-15 and north of 14600 S.
While Draper City only has control over their service area, a review of historical water usage was conducted
for both providers to understand how demand has changed over time and assess the relationship
between development patterns and water demand. Historical water usage data was sourced from the
Utah Division of Water Rights (DWRi), Draper City, and WaterPro. The analysis focused on per capita usage
trends and usage by connection type to identify patterns and potential opportunities for conservation.



    KEY TERMS
    Water Connection                  ERC                                 Water Redundancy
    A link between the public         Equivalent residential              Backup or alternate
    water supply network              connection – A                      systems, sources, or
    (water mains) and a private       standardized unit of                infrastructure to ensure a
    property, such as a home          measurement used by                 reliable supply of water,
    or building.                      utilities to represent the          even when a primary
                                      average flow or demand of           component fails, is
                                      a single-family residential         overloaded, or is
    GPCD                              unit, which is then used to         unavailable due to
                                      calculate charges or assess         emergencies or natural
    Gallons per capita per day
                                      fees for other types of             disasters.
    A standard unit for
                                      connections, such as
    measuring how much water
                                      commercial, industrial, or
    the average person uses in
                                      multi-family units.
    a single day.



                                                                                                             2
3
Water Use
Per capita water used in the Draper City system has shown a downward trend (see Figure 1), consistent with
state and regional goals for water conservation. This trend is likely due to both higher density development
and increased conservation measures implemented by the City. Notable conservation measures include the
adoption of Jordan Valley Water Conservancy District (JVWCD) Outdoor Landscaping Standards and Water
Efficiency Standards in 2023 and the implementation of tiered rates. See Table 9 for a detailed inventory of
existing conservation efforts as well as measures from the 2025 Water Conservation Plan.
Per capita water use within the WaterPro service area also displays a decreasing trend (see Figure 2). Infill
development and water conservation measures are likely impacting this decrease. While not outlined in this
element, WaterPro’s key conservation measures include tiered rates for both culinary and PI systems and
universal metering expansion.
 Figure 1—Draper City Water System in Gallons              Figure 2—WaterPro System in Gallons per Capita




                                                                                                            4
Draper City’s water demand is driven by residential, institutional, and commercial users, the latter of which
includes industrial users. As shown in Figures 3–5, residential use consistently accounts for the highest de-
mand, underscoring the importance of conservation strategies in this area. Commercial demand ranks sec-
ond in both Draper City’s service area (Figure 3) and WaterPro’s culinary system (Figure 4), while institutional
uses rank second highest in WaterPro’s secondary system (Figure 5). When combined with the distribution of
connections across these user types, the data highlights clear opportunities for conservation not only among
residential users but also institutional and commercial users.


Figure 3- Draper Water System Total Water Use               Figure 4– WaterPro Culinary Water Use
(ACFT, 2024)                                                (ACFT,2024)




Data sourced from Utah Division of Water Rights (DWRi)     Data sourced from Utah Division of Water Rights (DWRi)

Figure 5—WaterPro Secondary Water Use
(ACFT,2024)




Data sourced from Utah Division of Water Rights (DWRi)




                                                                                                                    5
   The number of connections and water use per connection type together reveal the impact of individual
   properties both individually and collectively. As seen in Figure 6, WaterPro supplies the majority of total
   connections, with residential connections comprising the largest share of both systems.

   Figure 6 - Total Connection Types in Draper City
                        18,000



                        16,000



                        14,000



                        12,000
Number of connections




                        10,000



                         8,000



                         6,000



                         4,000



                         2,000




                                 Draper City - Residential          WaterPro Culinary - Residential    Draper City - Commercial

                                 WaterPro Culinary - Commercial     Draper City - Institutional        WaterPro Culinary - Institutional

                                 WaterPro Irrigation - Commercial   WaterPro Irrigation - Residental   WaterPro Irrigation - Institutional




                                                                                                                                             6
While residential properties make up most of Draper City’s total connections, Figures 7-9 demonstrate that
residential properties exhibit the lowest and most consistent water use per connection compared to
commercial and institutional connections in both the WaterPro and Draper City service areas. This marked
difference in water use per connection suggests a potential high impact opportunity for implementing water
conservation measures for non-residential developments. While the water conservation of one residential
property remains important in scale, the comparative reduction in demand of a conserving commercial or
institutional property will likely be measurably higher, highlighting the benefit of targeting this area.


Figure 7 – Annual Water Use (Culinary and                Figure 8 - Annual Culinary Water Use for
Irrigation) Per Connection for Draper City Water         WaterPro
System




Figure 9 - Annual Secondary Water Use for
WaterPro




                                                                                                         7
Figures 10-12 present recent data on total             Figure 10 - Draper Water System Source, Use, &
source, retail use, and estimated water loss for       Estimated Water Loss
the Draper and WaterPro water systems. The
figures show a general downward trend in
estimated water loss in recent years for both
systems, with values appearing to approach a
more stable, predictable range. This trend is likely
attributable to improvements in metering
accuracy and leak detection.




Figure 11- WaterPro Culinary Source, Use, & Esti-      Figure 12- WaterPro Secondary Source, Use, &
mated Water Loss                                       Estimated Water Loss




                                                                                                        8
Historical & Future Water Demands
A water budget assesses the impact of existing and planned development on water demand and
infrastructure needs. This budget compares current and projected demands with available supply. The
water budget for each system is summarized in Tables 1 and 2. Existing equivalent residential connections
(ERCs) were determined with historical water billing and water production data, which includes both indoor
and outdoor uses (i.e., Draper does not have a separate pressurized irrigation system). Expected future
water use was forecasted in terms of ERCs per acre for each of the City’s planned land use categories.
Density of ERCs was forecasted based on water use in existing, representative parcels and development
requirements as contained in Draper City zoning code.

                                                                             Table 1 summarizes the water
                                                                             budget for the Draper City
                                                                             system. Indoor and outdoor
                                                                             water demands were estimat-
                                                                             ed assuming 37% indoor use
                                                                             and 63% outdoor use, con-
                                                                             sistent with historical monthly
                                                                             production trends.




                                                                              Table 2 summarizes the wa-
                                                                              ter budget for the WaterPro
                                                                              system. Note that the culi-
                                                                              nary water system is used by
                                                                              some customers for irrigation
                                                                              as well as indoor use.




                                                                                                             9
As both Draper City and WaterPro further develop, the two systems will experience an overall increase
in water demand by the year 2050. While projections illustrated in Figure 13 indicate that each
system’s outdoor water use will grow - Draper City by 39% and WaterPro by 45% - indoor demand
projections differ significantly between the two systems. While estimates predict indoor demand to
grow 64% in the Draper City service area, they indicate a 27% decrease in culinary water use in the
WaterPro service area by 2050. WaterPro’s decrease is in part due to the expansion of the system’s
secondary water. As WaterPro expands secondary irrigation, the service area expects the outdoor use
of culinary water to decrease. While both systems will experience an overall increase outdoor water
demand, it is important to note that increased density across both systems mitigate demand through
the development of smaller lot sizes.
As reflected in Table 3, the two systems have a total reliable supply of 14,466 ac-ft. Both systems also
have access to additional water through the JVWCD system on an as-available basis.
See Figure 14 for a complete comparison of water budget data of existing and future water demand and
source capacity.




Figure 13: Existing & Future (Draper-2060 &                 Figure 14: Water Demand Budget for Draper &
WaterPro-2050) Water Demands                                WaterPro




                                                                                                           10
WATER SUPPLY & DEMAND
ANALYSIS
As illustrated in Table 3, projections indicate that
at full buildout, water demand is expected to
exceed existing supply in both Draper City and
WaterPro systems. To close the gap between
existing supply and future demand, both systems
are taking steps to increase reliable supply. While
Draper City is working with JVWCD to increase
their contract volume to cover the existing and
future demands of their service area, WaterPro is
planning to develop a system of shallow wells to
increase future irrigation source capacity.
Continued coordination between Draper City,
JVWCD, and WaterPro will be critical to align water
supply planning with growth projections.

INFRASTRUCTURE
ASSESSMENT & ANALYSIS
Draper City Service Area
Future demands in the Draper City service area
will require several infrastructure upgrades. The
2025 Drinking Water Master Plan identifies that
additional source redundancy is needed
throughout the Suncrest Drive foothills region,
which will also require transmission lines and
pump stations. In addition, increasing the
available source through contracts with JVWCD
will be necessary to meet future demands.
Growing demand will also require additional
storage capacity, such as two currently planned
storage tanks.

WaterPro Service Area
The Culinary & PI Water Master Plan (BC&A, 2020)
indicates there is sufficient source and storage to
meet future demands. A majority of the future
infrastructure requirements are centered around
the need to replace aging pipelines and install
additional pipelines to increase redundancy.




                                                       11
Water Conservation
WATER PLANNING CHALLENGES
While Draper City has taken significant steps to conserve its water supply, it still faces water planning
challenges. Informed from both the water system analysis provided herein and interviews conducted with
Draper City’s water providers, the following water planning challenges provide insight into future
opportunities to safeguard its water supply in the years to come.

Outdoor Water Use
Outdoor water use makes up 63% of Draper’s water demand. While the city requires new developments to
meet water efficiency standards, the outdoor water use of existing developments is contingent on a variety
of challenges including the varied influence of tiered rates and climate fluctuations. While tiered rates are
key to conservation, they can be inconsequential to users with higher incomes. In addition, while Draper
residents demonstrate a willingness to conserve during a drought, their increased water usage during good
snow years indicates a possible disconnect between ongoing water conservation, ecosystem health, and the
Great Salt Lake.

Long-term Supply for Planned Development
Both Draper City and WaterPro’s service areas will experience increased water demand in the coming
decades. With a present demand of 6,540 ac-ft/year (see Table 1) and a projected demand of 13,450 ac-ft/
year by 2060, Draper City’s water system demand is expected to more than double by 6910 ac-ft/yr of water
by 2060. With an existing source capacity of 4,560 ac-ft/year (see Table 3), Draper will need to obtain 8,890
ac-ft/year of water to meet demand by 2060. Acquiring supply for a major driver of future demand, The
Point development (see Map 1), will be contingent on continued collaboration between the state and
JVWCD. The Point development is taking its own steps to reduce per capita water use through its own water
reduction goals (See Table 4).

Within the WaterPro system, additional development is expected to be modest and culinary water use is
expected to decrease by 2,087 ac-ft/year by 2050 (see Table 2) due to conversion to irrigation use, irrigation
is expected to outpace the exchange with an increase of 3,155 ac-ft/year. This results in a net increase for
the WaterPro system demand of 1,068 ac-ft/year, highlighting the similar need to acquire supply to meet
future demand unless significant outdoor water use is reduced.

Limited Redundancy
Both the Draper City Water System and WaterPro service areas require infrastructural upgrades to support
continuous and added redundancy. The Draper City service area in particular requires additional pumps
and transmission lines in the foothill region of Suncrest Drive to ensure supply in the event of a source
failure or emergency. Draper City’s 2025 Drinking Water Master Plan (HAL) identifies this need alongside
water provider interviews.




                                                                                                            12
WATER CONSCIOUS PLANNING
Water conscious planning in Draper City spans a range of efforts (see Table 9). Both the 2020 and 2025
Water Conservation Plans demonstrate sustained focus on infrastructure and policy changes. A continued
rollout of Automatic Metering Infrastructure alongside more efficient leak detection, water redundancy
planning, water reuse infrastructure, the adoption of water and landscape efficiency standards, and water
conscious development present key systemic upgrades in the supply, delivery, and use of water.


    CHALLENGE ADDRESSED




   Residential       Non-Residential     Long-term supply         Limited
   Water Use           Water Use         for development        Redundancy


Automatic Metering Infrastructure (AMI) and Leak Detection




Draper City’s Advanced Metering Infrastructure (AMI) installation and leak detection efforts seek to reduce
the water lost to leaks between delivery from wholesaler to city and city to user. Not only will the completion
of this new metering allow the City to more efficiently track and repair leaks but also provide water users in
the Draper City water system service area real-time data to track their water use.




Water Redundancy Planning
In order to address the impact of a potential water source failure in the Draper foothills region, the City is
developing plans to install additional pump station and transmission lines to these upper pressurized zones.




Water Reuse
WaterPro is undertaking a water reuse initiative to supply recycled water to its secondary irrigation system,
replacing the lower-quality water from Utah Lake. The project involves building pipelines and linking to the
larger Jordan Valley Water Reclamation Facility (JBWRF) system to access more reliable and cleaner water for
irrigation. The goals of the project are to enhance water supply reliability, offer higher-quality irrigation
water, extend the irrigation season, lower water rates, and provide an alternative to using the Jordan River
and Utah Lake. The initiative requires continued coordination and cooperation with Draper City and the
JVWCD.



                                                                                                            13
Outdoor Landscaping & Water Efficiency Standards
Draper City took a significant step to increase water conservation by adopting the JVWCD Outdoor
Landscaping Standards and Water Efficiency Standards in 2023. These standards further strengthen twenty-
two years of evolving landscaping standards by seeking to reduce outdoor water use for new developments
by limiting turfgrass area, promoting water-wise landscape design, and requiring water efficient irrigation
systems.


While the Outdoor Landscaping Standards and Water Efficiency Standards only applies to new
developments, its adoption also contributes to increasing water efficiency for existing developments. Draper
City’s adoption of JVWCD’s Water Efficiency Standard's, which are illustrated in Table 5, makes Draper
residents and business owners eligible for the Utah Water Savers Landscape Incentive Program, a turf
conversion rebate program. Table 6 demonstrate Draper residents are already applying for and participating
in this and other Utah Water Savers rebates including the Smart Controller Rebate and the Toilet Rebate.
Rebates and incentives are just one method of reducing water demand for existing developments. See Table
9 and the Goals and Strategies list for more information about Draper’s existing and potential rebate and
incentives promotion.




                                                                                                         14
Water-Conscious Development
Draper’s existing zoning code, the Comprehensive Zoning and Subdivision Code Update, compliance with
the state’s Moderate Income Housing Plan, and Station Area Plans increase opportunities for forms of
higher-density development that require less irrigation. The City’s Zoning Code contains residential zones
that allow lots from 40,000 s/f to as small as 4,000 s/f for single family homes, and lots as small as 1,000 s/f
for townhomes. While this represents a broad range of lot sizes, the City is exploring methods to reduce per
capita water use in new developments by revising ordinances and adopting policies that better promote
reduced lot size and increased density of new units. This will not only help the City reduce water demand
but also provide needed moderate-income housing within the City.
Projects in progress include the Comprehensive Zoning and Subdivision Code Update and the
implementation of four Station Area Plans. The Code Update will propose new or modified zoning districts in
order to encourage a diversity of housing types in the City’s medium-high residential density areas. This will
include standards for “missing middle” housing (smaller-scaled multi-family, or single-family homes that are
on smaller lots). In compliance with the Moderate Income Housing Plan, the City has reduced, and will
continue to look for ways to reduce regulations related to internal and detached accessory dwelling units in
residential zones. Internal accessory dwelling units may be permitted on lots as small as 6,000 s/f and
detached accessory dwelling units on lots as small as 12,000 s/f. This allows for a greater density of
residents on existing lots. Additionally, the City is working on implementing Station Area Plans for the Draper
Town Center TRAX Station, Crescent View TRAX Station, Kimballs Lane TRAX Station, and Draper FrontRunner
(Vista) Station, which will allow for higher density multi-family housing in specified areas around the existing
fixed-rail stations.




                                                                                                              15
MEETING REGIONAL CONSERVATION GOALS
Utah is both one of the fastest growing and driest states in the country. In order to balance development
with scarce water supplies, the Utah Division of Water Resources released the Utah Regional Municipal and
Industrial (M&I) Water Conservation Goals Report, dividing Utah into nine water conservation regions each with
designated water use goals for 2030, 2040, and 2065. While Draper straddles two conservation regionals –
the Salt Lake region and the Provo River region, Draper’s water system targets the Salt Lake conservation
region’s goals which include 187 GCPD or 11% baseline reduction by 2030 (see Table 7).
As seen in Table 8, the Draper City system already meets and exceeds the 2030 GCPD goal while WaterPro
is making progress towards meeting an 11% reduction by 2030.




                                                                                                            16
The impact of Draper City’s decrease in GCPD since 2015 and alignment with regional conservation goals
extends beyond its municipal boundary and into the Great Salt Lake Watershed, a 36,199-square-mile
closed basin spanning parts of Utah, Wyoming, Idaho, and Nevada. Home to 2.8 million people across 141
municipalities, it supports over 1.4 million acres of irrigated farmland and relies on water from five major riv-
er basins—the Bear, Weber, Jordan, Utah Lake, and West Desert (see Map 2). The GSL’s water levels have
been in long-term decline, hitting a historic low in 2022, raising concerns for wildlife, public health, industry,
and agriculture. Straddling the Jordan River and Utah Lake basins, Draper City is part of this larger, regional
network of users whose individual efforts are collectively contributing to how much water can reach the lake.




                                                                                                               17
Looking Forward
While Draper City faces water planning challenges, existing and future water conservation efforts can play a
significant role in improving demand. While water conservation will not directly address redundancy
requirements or substantially reduce demand for planned development in the Draper City service area,
conservation can play a key role in safeguarding existing supply.
The following two sections outline conservation opportunities as well as specify how those opportunities can
address Draper’s four conservation challenges – outdoor water use, long-term supply for planned
development, and limited redundancy. While the “Goals and Strategies” recommends new approaches of
increasing water conservation, Table 9 “Inventory of Current and Developing Water Use and Preservation
Strategies” catalogues Draper’s extensive existing and developing water conservation strategies which
should be continued.
By continuing to adopt and refine the water efficient practices outlined in these sections— such as water-
wise landscaping, education, and public outreach — Draper is taking meaningful steps towards sustainable
water management.




                                                                                                          18
Goals & Strategies
            CHALLENGE ADDRESSED
    CHALLENGE ADDRESSED



    Residential    Non-Residential    Long-term supply
     Water Use       Water Use        for development
    Residential    Non-Residential   Long-term supply
    Water Use        Water Use       for development




GOAL WU-1                                            GOAL WU-2
Strengthen the City’s water conservation             Develop additional citywide policies and
efforts through dedicated leadership,                ordinances that enhance water
support, and collaboration.                          conservation and efficiency through
•   Implementation 1.1: Water                        irrigation restrictions for existing
    Conservation Team: Explore the formation         developments.
    of a Water Conservation Team to support          •   Implementation 2.1: Develop and
    the Water Quality and Conservation                   implement a Time-of-Day Watering
    Coordinator in addressing existing and               Ordinance to restrict outdoor watering
    future water use and preservation goals.             between the hours of 10am and 6pm for
•   Implementation 1.2: Water                            all residential, institutional, and
    Conservation Intern: Consider developing             commercial properties.
    a Water Conservation Intern or similar           •   Implementation 2.2: Develop a Water
    position for the development and support             Shortage Plan to help protect public
    of additional programming, outreach, and             health, safety, and welfare during
    education.                                           periods of drought, temporary water
                                                         shortage, and supply interruption.




                                                                                                19
GOAL WU-3                                         GOAL WU-4
Reduce water demand through water-                Increase public awareness of water
conserving development patterns that              conservation through educational
increase development density through              programming. Consider applying for
mechanisms such as modified lot size              the JVWCD Member Agency Grant to
and configuration.                                receive funding for the following.
•   Implementation 3.1: Transit-Oriented          •   Implementation 4.1: DIY Water Con-
    Development: Implement adopted Station            serving Workshop Series- Expand
    Area Plans including Draper Town Center           Draper’s existing classes on Localscapes
    TRAX Station, Kimballs Lane TRAX Station,         into a multi-topic DIY Water Conserving
    and Draper FrontRunner Station to                 Workshop Series. Educate and empower
    provide higher-density, water-conserving          residents with water conserving skills by
    development.                                      developing and implementing DIY work-
                                                      shops such as Fix-A-Leak and Fix Your
•   Implementation 3.2: Zoning and                    Sprinklers.
    Subdivision Code Update: Complete
    update to zoning ordinances to propose        •   Implementation 4.2: Promotional
    new or modified districts that encourage          Items - Provide residents with the re-
    infill of a variety of housing types in the       sources to conserve water at home by
    City’s medium-high residential areas,             providing free water conserving tools such
    including “missing middle” types, such as         as smart leak monitors, leak detection
    small-scale multifamily or smaller lot            tablets, and conservation kits at public
    single-family homes, which inherently use         events.
    less water than traditional development.      •   Implementation 4.3: Beautiful Yard
                                                      Award Program - Encourage waterwise
                                                      design and annually recognize and award
                                                      households with exceptional water wise
                                                      yards through the development of a
                                                      Beautiful Yard Award Program. See South
                                                      Salt Lake’s Beautiful Award Program for
                                                      reference.
                                                  •   Implementation 4.4: Strategic Water
                                                      Management Workshop: Partner with
                                                      the JVWCD to provide businesses the op-
                                                      portunity to learn about water conserving
                                                      practices alongside incentives and rebate
                                                      programs.




                                                                                              20
GOAL WU-5                                        GOAL WU-6
Increase public awareness of water               Lead by example and increase water
conservation through the City’s website,         efficiency throughout Draper City’s
social media, and other digital tools.           public landscapes.
•   Implementation 5.1: Water                    •  Implementation 6.1: Park Strip
    Conservation Webpage: Increase ease             Conversion Plan: Develop a plan to
    of access to water conservation
         Residential           Non-Residential      gradually convert DraperLimited
                                                 Long-term supply
                                                                             City park strips
    information  on
         Water Use   Draper City’s website
                                   Water   by
                                         Use        to water wise
                                                 for development
                                                                  landscapes.
                                                                       redundancy in the
    consolidating water conservation                                         foothills
                                                 •   Implementation 6.2: Turf      Reduction
    information from the Water and
                                                     Plan: Develop a plan to reduce turf in
    Stormwater webpage and the
                                                     Draper City parks and other civic
    Landscaping webpage into one Water
                                                     properties that does not fill a recreational
    Conservation webpage.
                                                     role.
•   Implementation 5.2: Commercial
                                                 •   Implementation 6.3: Irrigation
    Opportunities: Promote commercial
                                                     System Upgrade Plan: Develop a plan
    rebate programs by creating a
                                                     to upgrade older Draper City park and
    commercial opportunities section on
                                                     civic irrigation systems to more water
    existing Landscaping webpage or
                                                     efficient systems.
    potential Water Conservation webpage.
    Section may include JVWCD’s Landscape
    Inventive Program, Utah Water Savers
    rebates, and the JVWCD’s Strategic Water
    Management resources.
•   Implementation 5.3: Social Media
    Calendar: Enhance existing outreach to
    residents and businesses by developing a
    Social Media Calendar to plan seasonal
    water conservation resources, programs,
    news, and public information campaigns.
    Refer to Slow The Flow, USU’s Center for
    Water Efficient Landscaping, and
    WaterSense for potential messaging.
•   Implementation 5.4: EyeOnWater
    App: Promote the EyeOnWater app at the
    conclusion of the AMI replacement. The
    EyeOnWater app allows user to connect
    to their utility account and view their
    water usage and set up leak notifications.




                                                                                               21
22
23
24
25
