MEMO
To: City Council
From: Travis DeJong
Date: 2025-06-17
Re: Public Hearing: Providing Local Consent for a Bar Establishment License for Pine
Partners LLC dba The Pines.


Comments:

Pine Partners LLC dba The Pines located at 1229 E Pioneer Rd is seeking Local Consent for
a Bar Establishment license. They have provided the following item in conformance with
Draper City Municipal Code Section 6-4-040 and Utah State Code Section 32B-5-201:

- Liquor liability insurance.
- Bond payable to the Department of Alcoholic Beverage Services.
- Floor map showing where alcohol is to be served, stored, and consumed.
- Sales tax license.
- A background check conducted by the Bureau of Criminal Identification.
- Proof of being lawfully present in the United States.

Pine Partners LLC dba The Pines has a current, issued business license numbered CBL-
3816-2025.

The findings for Local Consent approval are as follows:

DCMC 6-4-040 requires that a bar establishment be at least six hundred feet (600') away
from any community location (schools, churches, public libraries, public playgrounds, and
public parks) measured by the shortest pedestrian route taken from the nearest patron
entrance of the outlet to the property boundary of the community location.

Pine Partners LLC dba The Pines has met this requirement.

DCMC 6-4-040 requires that a beer establishment be at least two hundred feet (200')
away from any community location (schools, churches, public libraries, public
playgrounds, and public parks) measured in a straight line from the nearest patron
entrance of the outlet to the property boundary of the community location.

Pine Partners LLC dba The Pines has met this requirement.

DCMC 6-4-050 states that the total number of bar establishment licenses granted by the
city shall not exceed eight (8). Draper City currently has seven (7) bar establishments.
Granting Local Consent to Pine Partners LLC dba The Pines would bring the total number
of bar establishments in Draper City to eight (8).




ATTACHMENTS:

Bond.pdf
ATTACHMENTS:

Floor Plan.pdf
ATTACHMENTS:

Liquor Liability.pdf
ATTACHMENTS:

Utah Sales Tax License.pdf
ATTACHMENTS:

The Pines Local Consent.pdf
