                                Development Review Committee
                                    1020 East Pioneer Road
                                      Draper, UT 84020
                                           October 28, 2025

To:             Draper City Planning Commission
                Business Date: November 20, 2025

From:           Development Review Committee

Prepared By: Todd A. Draper, AICP, Planning Manager
             Planning Division
             Community Development Department
             801-576-6335, todd.draper@draperutah.gov

Re:     Openshaw Draper 138 – Land Use Map and Zoning Map Amendment Requests
        Application No.: 2025-0080-MA and 2025-0074-MA
        Applicant:        Charlie Openshaw and Porter Openshaw, representing CJO
                          Holdings, LLC and P&J Ventures, LLC.
        Project Location: Approximately 231 E. 13800 S.
        Current Zoning: RA1 (Residential Agricultural, 40,000 ft² min. lot size) and
                          OR (Office Residential) Zones
        Acreage:          Approximately 1.44 Acres (Approximately 62,636 ft2)
        Request:          Request for approval of a Land Use Map Amendment from the
                          Office/Service land use designation to the Regional Commercial
                          land use designation and from the RA1 and OR zones to the CR
                          (Regional Commercial) zone regarding future potential
                          development of the property as part of a commercial center.



BACKGROUND AND SUMMARY
This application is a request for approval of a Land Use Map Amendment and a Zoning
Map Amendment for approximately 1.44 acres located at the northeast corner of 13800
South and the Bangerter Highway, at approximately 231 E. 13800 S. (Exhibit C & D). The
subject properties are currently zoned either RA1 or OR. The applicant is requesting that
the Land Use Map and Zoning Map Amendments be approved to allow for the
development of the overall site as a part of a commercial center.

The overall subject property consists of seven (7) parcels ranging in size from
approximately 0.09 acres to 0.39 acres. Five (5) single-family dwellings that dated back



Openshaw Draper 138                                       App. #2025-0074-MA and #2025-0080-MA
Land Use Map and Zoning Map Amendment Requests    1
prior to the incorporation of the city in 1978 previously existed on the properties. Two of
these dwellings were removed in about 2006 and the remaining structures were removed
from the property in approximately 2018. The subject properties have been vacant since
that time.



ANALYSIS
General Plan and Zoning.

 Table 1                 General Plan and Zoning Designations                      Exhibit
 Existing Land Use       Office/Service                                            Exhibit E
 Current Zoning          RA1, OR                                                   Exhibit F
 Proposed Use            Commercial Center
 Adjacent Zoning
     East                RA1
     West                CR
     North               RA1
     South               CC (Community Commercial)

The Office/Service land use designation is characterized as follows:




Openshaw Draper 138                                   App. #2025-0074-MA and #2025-0080-MA
Land Use Map and Zoning Map Amendment Requests   2
The Regional Commercial land use designation is characterized as follows:




According to Draper City Municipal Code (DCMC) Section 9-8-020 the purpose of the RA1
zone is to “foster low density development with little impact on its surroundings and
municipal services; to generally preserve the character of the city's semirural areas; and to
promote and preserve conditions favorable to large lot family life, including the keeping of
limited numbers of animals and fowl. The predominant use in these zones is intended to
be detached single-family dwellings, protected from encroachment by commercial and
industrial uses.”

The purpose of the OR zone is listed in DCMC Section 9-11-080 as, “A district composed of
certain land and structures used primarily to provide administrative, clerical, and
professional offices, of a residential scale and character, to serve nearby residential and
commercial areas, as well as the city as a whole. These uses are characterized by low
volume, direct daily customer contact. This district also provides for accessory medium-
high density residential (0 to 12 du/ac). This district is designed to be a transitional zone,
and should be used to buffer low density residential uses from more intense land uses,
districts, and heavily traveled transportation routes. The property development standards,
while strict in order to protect adjacent low density residential uses, are designed to be
flexible enough to allow experimentation in office and housing design, and to allow
housing constructed within this district to incorporate its own protection from more
intense adjacent uses.”

The purpose of the CR zone as listed in DCMC Section 9-8-020 is to, “foster low density
development with little impact on its surroundings and municipal services; to generally
preserve the character of the city's semirural areas; and to promote and preserve
conditions favorable to large lot family life, including the keeping of limited numbers of
animals and fowl. The predominant use in these zones is intended to be detached single-



Openshaw Draper 138                                    App. #2025-0074-MA and #2025-0080-MA
Land Use Map and Zoning Map Amendment Requests   3
family dwellings, protected from encroachment by commercial and industrial uses.”

The applicant’s responses and addition documentation submitted regarding their request
for review and approval of the Land Use Map Amendment and the Zoning Map
Amendment requests are provided in Exhibit G of this report.

Criteria For Approval.
The Land Use Map amendment request falls under DCMC Section 9-2-020(F) because the
Land Use Map is part of Draper City’s General Plan. That section lists the following criteria
for a General Plan amendment as:

        Plan Amendment: All plan amendments shall be in accordance with Utah Code
        Annotated 10-9a-404, as amended and, unless requested by the city's legislative
        body, shall follow the procedures as outlined in Draper City Municipal Code 9-5-
        060(D).” That section is noted as follows:

        D.      Procedure: Zoning text and map amendments shall be considered and
                processed as provided in this subsection:
                1.    A complete application shall be submitted to the office of the zoning
                      administrator in a form established by the administrator along with
                      any fee established by the city’s schedule of fees. The application
                      shall include at least the following information:
                      a.      The name, address and telephone number of the applicant
                              and the applicant’s agent, if any.
                      b.      The name and address of every person or company the
                              applicant represents.
                      c.      The requested amendment and reasons supporting the
                              request.
                      d.      If the proposed amendment requires a change in the zoning
                              map, the application shall include:
                              (1)      An accurate property map showing present and
                                       proposed zoning classifications;
                              (2)      All abutting properties showing present zoning
                                       classifications; and
                              (3)      An accurate legal description and an approximate
                                       common address of the area proposed to be rezoned.
                      e.      If the proposed amendment requires a change in the text of
                              this title, the application shall include chapter and section
                              references and a draft of the proposed text.
                2.    After the application is determined to be complete, the zoning
                      administrator shall prepare a staff report evaluating the application.
                3.    The planning commission shall schedule and hold a public hearing on
                      the application as provided in sections 9-5-040 and 9-5-045 of this



Openshaw Draper 138                                    App. #2025-0074-MA and #2025-0080-MA
Land Use Map and Zoning Map Amendment Requests   4
                        chapter. Following the public meeting, the planning commission shall
                        recommend approval, approval with modifications, or denial of the
                        proposed amendment and shall submit its recommendation to the
                        city council for review and decision.
                4.      The city council shall schedule and hold a public hearing on the
                        application as provided in sections 9-5-040 and 9-5-045 of this
                        chapter. Following the public hearing, the city council may approve,
                        approve with modifications, or deny the proposed amendment.

A Map Amendment is a matter committed to the legislative discretion of the City Council
and is not controlled by any one standard. However, in making a recommendation to the
City Council, the Planning Commission should consider the following factors in Section 9-5-
060(E) of the DCMC:

        1. Map Amendments:
            a. Whether the proposed amendment is consistent with goals, objectives and
               policies of the city's general plan;
            b. Whether the proposed amendment is harmonious with the overall character
               of existing development in the vicinity of the subject property;
            c. Whether the proposed amendment is consistent with the standards of any
               applicable overlay zone;
            d. The extent to which the proposed amendment may adversely affect adjacent
               property; and
            e. The adequacy of facilities and services intended to serve the subject
               property, including, but not limited to, roadways, parks and recreation
               facilities, police and fire protection, schools, stormwater drainage systems,
               water supplies, and wastewater and refuse collection.


REVIEWS
Planning Division Review. The Draper City Planning Division has completed their review of
the Land Use Map and Zoning Map Amendment submissions. Comments from this
division, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Engineering and Public Works Divisions Review. The Draper City Engineering and Public
Works Divisions have completed their reviews of the Land Use Map and Zoning Map
Amendment submissions. Comments from these divisions, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Building Division Review. The Draper City Building Division has completed their review of
the Land Use Map and Zoning Map Amendment submissions. Comments from this
division, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

GIS Division Review. The Draper City GIS Division has completed their review of the Land



Openshaw Draper 138                                    App. #2025-0074-MA and #2025-0080-MA
Land Use Map and Zoning Map Amendment Requests   5
Use Map and Zoning Map Amendment submissions. Comments from this division, if any,
can be found in Exhibit A.

Fire Division Review. The Draper City Fire Marshal has completed his review of the Land
Use Map and Zoning Map Amendment submissions. Comments from this division, if any,
can be found in Exhibit A.

Legal Division Review. The Draper City Attorney has completed their review of the Land
Use Map and Zoning Map Amendment submissions. Comments from this division, if any,
can be found in Exhibit A.

Noticing. Notice has been properly issued in the manner outlined in the City and State
Codes.



STAFF RECOMMENDATION
Staff recommends that the Planning Commission review the requests, receive public
comment, and make decisions based on the findings listed below and the criteria for
approval, or denial, as listed within the staff report.



MODEL MOTIONS
Land Use Map Amendment
Sample Motion for Positive Recommendation – I move that we forward a positive
recommendation to the City Council for the Land Use Map Amendment, as requested by
Charlie Openshaw and Porter Openshaw, representing CJO Holdings, LLC and P&J
Ventures, LLC., application 2025-0080-MA, based on the following findings and the criteria
for approval listed in the Staff Report dated October 28, 2025.

Findings for Approval:
       1. The proposed map amendment is consistent with goals, objectives, and policies
           of the city's general plan.
       2. The proposed map amendment is harmonious with the overall character of
           existing development in the vicinity of the subject property.
       3. The proposed map amendment will not adversely affect adjacent property.
       4. There are adequate facilities and services intended to serve the subject property,
           including, but not limited to, roadways, parks and recreation facilities, police and
           fire protection, schools, stormwater drainage systems, water supplies, and
           wastewater and refuse collection.
       5. The proposed land use map amendment complies with DCMC Section 9-2-
           020(F).
       6. The legislative body may adopt any amendment to the general plan land use
           map that the legislative body considers appropriate.



Openshaw Draper 138                                    App. #2025-0074-MA and #2025-0080-MA
Land Use Map and Zoning Map Amendment Requests   6
Sample Motion for Modified Positive Recommendation – I move that we forward a positive
recommendation to the City Council for the Land Use Map Amendment, as requested by
Charlie Openshaw and Porter Openshaw, representing CJO Holdings, LLC and P&J
Ventures, LLC., application 2025-0080-MA, based on the following findings and the criteria
for approval listed in the Staff Report dated October 28, 2025, and as modified by the
following additional findings:

        1. (List any additional findings …)

Sample Motion for Negative Recommendation – I move that we forward a negative
recommendation to the City Council for the Land Use Map Amendment, as requested by
Charlie Openshaw and Porter Openshaw, representing CJO Holdings, LLC and P&J
Ventures, LLC., application 2025-0080-MA, based on the findings and criteria for denial
listed in the Staff Report dated October 28, 2025.

Findings for Denial:
       1. The proposed map amendment is not consistent with goals, objectives, and
           policies of the city's general plan.
       2. The proposed map amendment is not harmonious with the overall character of
           existing development in the vicinity of the subject property.
       3. The proposed map amendment will adversely affect adjacent property.
       4. There are not adequate facilities and services intended to serve the subject
           property, including, but not limited to, roadways, parks and recreation facilities,
           police and fire protection, schools, stormwater drainage systems, water supplies,
           and wastewater and refuse collection.
       5. The legislative body may reject any amendment to the general plan land use
           map that the legislative body considers appropriate.

Zoning Map Amendment
Sample Motion for Positive Recommendation – I move that we forward a positive
recommendation to the City Council for the Zoning Map Amendment, as requested by
Charlie Openshaw and Porter Openshaw, representing CJO Holdings, LLC and P&J
Ventures, LLC., application 2025-0074-MA, based on the following findings and the criteria
for approval listed in the Staff Report dated October 28, 2025.

Findings for Approval:
       1. The proposed map amendment is consistent with goals, objectives, and policies
           of the city's general plan.
       2. The proposed map amendment is harmonious with the overall character of
           existing development in the vicinity of the subject property.
       3. The proposed map amendment is consistent with the standards of any
           applicable overlay zone.



Openshaw Draper 138                                   App. #2025-0074-MA and #2025-0080-MA
Land Use Map and Zoning Map Amendment Requests   7
        4. The proposed map amendment will not adversely affect adjacent property.
        5. There are adequate facilities and services intended to serve the subject property,
           including, but not limited to, roadways, parks and recreation facilities, police and
           fire protection, schools, stormwater drainage systems, water supplies, and
           wastewater and refuse collection.

Sample Motion for Modified Positive Recommendation – I move that we forward a positive
recommendation to the City Council for the Zoning Map Amendment, as requested by
Charlie Openshaw and Porter Openshaw, representing CJO Holdings, LLC and P&J
Ventures, LLC., application 2025-0074-MA, based on the following findings and the criteria
for approval listed in the Staff Report dated October 28, 2025, and as modified by the
following additional findings:

        1. (List any additional findings …)

Sample Motion for Negative Recommendation – I move that we forward a negative
recommendation to the City Council for the Zoning Map Amendment, as requested by
Charlie Openshaw and Porter Openshaw, representing CJO Holdings, LLC and P&J
Ventures, LLC., application 2025-0074-MA, based on the findings and criteria for denial
listed in the Staff Report dated October 28, 2025.

Findings for Denial:
       1. The proposed map amendment is not consistent with goals, objectives, and
           policies of the city's general plan.
       2. The proposed map amendment is not harmonious with the overall character of
           existing development in the vicinity of the subject property.
       3. The proposed map amendment will adversely affect adjacent property.
       4. There are not adequate facilities and services intended to serve the subject
           property, including, but not limited to, roadways, parks and recreation facilities,
           police and fire protection, schools, stormwater drainage systems, water supplies,
           and wastewater and refuse collection.




Openshaw Draper 138                                    App. #2025-0074-MA and #2025-0080-MA
Land Use Map and Zoning Map Amendment Requests   8
                                     EXHIBIT A
                                DEPARTMENT REVIEWS

REVIEWS ARE NOT MEANT TO BE AN ALL-INCLUSIVE LIST OF POSSIBLE COMMENTS OR
CONDITIONS.

Planning Division Review.

      1. No additional Comments

Engineering and Public Works Divisions Review.

      1. We have reviewed the subject zone map amendment application, proposing
         approximately 1.44 acres to be zoned from Residential/Agricultural one acre
         (RA1) and Office Residential (OR) to Regional Commercial (CR) in accordance with
         the provisions of Section 9-5-060(E)(1)(e) of the Draper City Municipal Code
         (DCMC). We speak primarily to the adequacy of facilities and services intended to
         serve the subject property. In making an amendment, the City Council should
         consider the following factors. Accordingly, the following comments are
         recommended for your consideration:

      2. The adequacy of facilities and services intended to serve the subject property,
         including but not limited to roadways, parks and recreation facilities, police and
         fire protection, schools, storm water drainage systems, water supplies, and
         waste water and refuse collection; Other than noted below, we are not aware of
         any inadequacies of the facilities intended to serve this property.

          A. The change in zone from residential / agricultural one acre (RA1) and Office /
             Residential (OR) to a commercial zoning, Regional Commercial (CR),
             represents a significant increase in traffic based on the density potential of
             the proposed zone. The proposed zone would increase traffic based on any
             of the potential proposed uses allowed in the zone and the intensity of those
             uses within the subject area. That being said, the fronting streets are 13800
             South, and Bangerter Hwy which are classified as arterial streets with
             significant traffic capacity. There are peak-time commuter congestion in the
             area. The size of the subject parcel and the potential number of trips
             generated from the subject area require mitigation to traffic impacts, where
             mitigation is typically contemplated around 100 peak hour trips. However,
             this area was included in a traffic impact study (TIS) that analyzed the
             surrounding area contained within 300 East, 13800 South, and Bangerter
             Highway. The TIS analyzed the intensity for traffic generation of the subject
             area and adjacent area based on the probable land uses and development
              density. The TIS report outlines both city deficiencies, which the city is
              addressing, and project mitigation requirements for the greater area. The
              project mitigation improvements will be a requirement of any site
              development or subdivision approval by the city. Those improvements will be
              completed as part of the development construction. There are incomplete
              public frontage improvements existing on the subject site and the missing
              improvements, park strips and sidewalks, will be required of any project.

          B. Connectivity with the subject area to public rights-of-way are established
             based the city’s access management plan and as analyzed in a traffic impact
             study (TIS) for the subject area and adjacent area bounded by 300 East,
             13800 South, and Bangerter Hwy. Access onto 300 East, 13800 South, and
             Bangerter Hwy are controlled in order to limit impacts from the potential
             commercial development to the existing and future traffic on the
             surrounding streets. Development within the subject area will be required to
             share accesses and have cross-access agreements in place for each site due
             to the limited access locations available. Accesses are be required to meet
             Draper City standards as outlined in our Master Transportation Plan. Access
             is evaluated at the time of a site plan or subdivision application and will
             follow the requirements of the TIS.

          C. There are existing storm drainage facilities fronting the subject parcel that
             are feasible to connect to from the existing site. Any future site drainage will
             be required to be addressed with any subdivision or site plan application and
             shall comply with the rules and regulations pertaining to site drainage and
             the provisions of the development requirements within the Draper City
             Municipal Code.

          D. Sanitary sewer facilities will be provided by Jordan Basin Improvement
             District, formally South Valley Sewer District. Any subdivision or site plan
             application will require a commitment to serve from the sewer district that
             facilities are adequate to provide service for the proposed uses.

          E. Drinking water is provided by WaterPro to the subject parcel. Any subdivision
             or site plan application will require a commitment to serve from WaterPro
             that facilities are adequate to provide service for the proposed uses.

   3. Accordingly, we will provide comments relative to the potential construction
      activities when the appropriate application is received.

Building Division Review.

       1. No additional Comments
Fire Division Review.

       1. No additional Comments

GIS Division Review.

       1. No additional Comments

Legal Division Review.

       1. No additional Comments
                                     EXHIBIT B
                     PERIMETER MEETS AND BOUNDS DESCRIPTION

BEGINNING AT AN EXISTING REBAR AND CAP LOCATED BEHIND THE EXISTING SIDEWALK OF 13800
SOUTH STREET, SAID POINT BEING LOCATED NORTH 00°39'30" WEST 8.57 FEET TO THE FOUND
STANDARD COUNTY MONUMENT FOR THE CENTER OF SECTION 6 AND WEST 458.01 FEET AND NORTH
55.10 FROM THE CALCULATED TRUE CENTER OF SECTION 6 AT THE INTERSECTION OF 13800 SOUTH
AND 300 EAST (MONUMENT WAS NOT FOUND), TOWNSHIP 4 SOUTH, RANGE 1 EAST, SALT LAKE BASE
AND MERIDIAN;

THENCE ALONG THE NORTHERLY RIGHT OF WAY OF 13800 SOUTH STREET THE FOLLOWING TWO (2)
CALLS: NORTH 86°52'26" WEST 99.40 FEET, NORTH 89°40'40" WEST 217.33 FEET TO AN EXISTING REBAR
AND CAP BEHIND THE EXISTING SIDEWALK OF 13800 SOUTH STREET;

THENCE ALONG THE EASTERLY RIGHT OF WAY OF BANGATER HIGHWAY THE FOLLOWING THREE (3)
CALLS: NORTH 47°30'37" WEST 16.24 FEET TO AN EXISTING REBAR AND CAP, NORTH 00°12'30" WEST
9.31 FEET, ALONG AN ARC OF A 719.17 FOOT RADIUS CURVE TO THE LEFT 165.41 FEET (CHORD BEARS
NORTH 06°47'49" WEST 165.04 FEET) TO AN EXISTING REBAR AND CAP;

THENCE NORTH 89°26'42" EAST ALONG AN EXISTING FENCE LINE 348.15 FEET TO AN EXISTING FENCE;
THENCE SOUTH ALONG AN EXISTING FENCE LINE 194.18 FEET TO THE POINT OF BEGINNING.

AREA = 62,635.54 SQ.FT. / 1.44 ACRES
  EXHIBIT C
VICINITY MAP
 EXHIBIT D
AERIAL MAP
  EXHIBIT E
LAND USE MAP
 EXHIBIT F
ZONING MAP
      EXHIBIT G
APPLICANTS RESPONSES
                       General Plan Land Use Map Amendment



1. What is the requested land use designation?
The requested land use designation is Regional Commercial (CR).

2. Please explain the reason for the request and the justification for approval.
The current land use designation for the property is Office/Service, but two of the parcels in this
proposal already do not comply with this designation. Changing the designation to Regional
Commercial (CR) will allow all parcels to be compliant and better reflect the existing and
intended use of the area.

The justification for this request includes:

   •   Alignment with Existing Development: Two of the other three corners of the
       intersection are already designated as Community/Neighborhood Commercial, while the
       remaining corner is designated as Regional Commercial. This change will create
       consistency across all corners of the intersection.

   •   Intended Land Use: The proposed use of the property for food service and retail aligns
       with the purpose of Community/Neighborhood Commercial zoning.

   •   Traffic Compatibility: Given the existing traffic patterns in the area, this designation
       change will have no adverse effects on Draper City’s infrastructure or traffic flow.

   •   Community Benefit: The proposed change will enable commercial uses that directly
       serve the surrounding community and neighborhood.

3. How is the requested land use designation harmonious with the overall character of
existing development in the vicinity of the subject property? Explain.
The requested designation is harmonious with the surrounding development for several reasons:

   •   The property is located along the Bangerter Highway corridor, a major roadway that
       already supports commercial uses.

   •   Two of the three other corners at the intersection are already designated as
       Community/Neighborhood Commercial, making this change a logical and compatible
       extension of the existing land use pattern.

   •   The remaining corner is designated as Regional Commercial, further reinforcing the
       area’s commercial nature.

   •   The proposed retail and food service use aligns with the needs of the surrounding
       community, complementing existing businesses and services in the area.

4. Is the proposed land use designation consistent with the goals, objectives, and policies of
the City’s General Plan? Explain.
Yes, the proposed Community/Neighborhood Commercial land use designation aligns with
Draper City’s General Plan in the following ways:

   •   Encourages commercial development in key corridors: The General Plan supports
       commercial development along major roadways like Bangerter Highway, where
       businesses can efficiently serve the community.

   •   Enhances economic growth: By allowing for food service and retail, this designation
       supports local businesses and contributes to the city’s economic vitality.

   •   Promotes land use compatibility: The change ensures that all parcels within the
       proposal comply with their designated land use, creating consistency and preventing
       fragmented zoning.

   •   Serves the immediate community: The proposed designation facilitates neighborhood-
       oriented businesses that directly meet the needs of local residents and visitors.

For these reasons, this land use designation change is a logical and beneficial adjustment that
aligns with Draper City’s long-term planning goals.
                        Draper Zone Amendment Application

Zoning Map Amendment

1. What is the requested zoning designation?
The requested zoning designation is Regional Commercial (CR). Approximately two-thirds of
the property on the eastern side is currently zoned Office Residential (OR), while the remaining
one-third on the western side, directly adjacent to Bangerter Highway, is currently zoned
Residential Agricultural (RA1).

2. Please explain the reason for the request and the justification for approval.
The property is currently zoned OR and RA1, but it is surrounded on three sides by properties
zoned Community Commercial (CC) and Regional Commercial (CR). Additionally, a
neighboring parcel is also applying for a rezone to Regional Commercial. Given the property’s
location along the Bangerter Highway corridor, which is a high-traffic commercial area, rezoning
to Regional Commercial is a logical step to better align with the surrounding land uses and
economic development patterns.

This rezone will:

   •   Provide consistency with adjacent commercial properties.

   •   Enhance economic opportunities by allowing for a wider range of commercial uses that
       serve residents, businesses in the area, and enhances the city’s sales tax base.

   •   Support Draper City’s vision for commercial corridors along major roadways.

   •   Maximize the property’s potential by permitting appropriate commercial development
       that aligns with the demands of a growing community.

3. How is the requested zoning designation harmonious with the overall character of
existing development in the vicinity of the subject property? Explain.
The requested Community Commercial zoning is harmonious with the existing development in
the area for several reasons:

   •   The property is surrounded on three sides by Community Commercial and Regional
       Commercial zoning, making this rezone a natural extension of the existing commercial
       district.

   •   The neighboring property is also seeking a rezone to Regional Commercial, ensuring
       compatibility and continuity of development.

   •   The Bangerter Highway corridor is already developed with commercial uses, and
       rezoning this property will further enhance the commercial synergy of the area.

   •   Regional Commercial zoning will allow for appropriately scaled businesses that
       complement existing commercial properties while serving the needs of nearby residents
       and commuters.

4. Are facilities and services, such as roadways and utilities, sufficient to serve the property
under the proposed zoning? Explain.
Yes, the existing infrastructure is sufficient to support the proposed Regional Commercial
zoning.

   •   Roadways: The property is located along Bangerter Highway, a major transportation
       corridor designed to accommodate high traffic volumes, making it well-suited for
       commercial development. The existing road network is capable of handling the additional
       traffic generated by commercial uses. The proposed addition of a traffic light and access
       point along Tom Lloyd’s property will allow access to our parcels and provide an
       efficient flow of traffic.

   •   Utilities: Water, sewer, electricity, and other essential utilities are already in place and
       capable of supporting commercial development. No significant infrastructure upgrades
       are anticipated.

   •   Emergency Services: The property is within the service area of Draper City’s fire,
       police, and emergency services, ensuring adequate public safety support for future
       commercial operations.

5. Is the proposed zoning designation consistent with the goals, objectives, and policies of
the City’s General Plan? Explain.
Yes, the proposed Regional Commercial zoning is consistent with Draper City’s General Plan.

   •   The General Plan encourages commercial development along major corridors like
       Bangerter Highway, where businesses can thrive and serve the community effectively.

   •   The rezone supports the city’s goal of expanding economic opportunities and fostering
       business growth in designated commercial areas.

   •   Regional Commercial zoning promotes land use compatibility by aligning with the
       existing commercial properties in the vicinity.
   •   By allowing for a mix of retail, service, and office uses, this rezone contributes to a
       balanced and vibrant economic environment in Draper City.

For these reasons, the rezone request aligns with Draper City’s vision for sustainable and
strategic development and should be approved.
                       General Plan Land Use Map Amendment



1. What is the requested land use designation?
The requested land use designation is Regional Commercial (CR).

2. Please explain the reason for the request and the justification for approval.
The current land use designation for the property is Office/Service, but two of the parcels in this
proposal already do not comply with this designation. Changing the designation to Regional
Commercial (CR) will allow all parcels to be compliant and better reflect the existing and
intended use of the area.

The justification for this request includes:

   •   Alignment with Existing Development: Two of the other three corners of the
       intersection are already designated as Community/Neighborhood Commercial, while the
       remaining corner is designated as Regional Commercial. This change will create
       consistency across all corners of the intersection.

   •   Intended Land Use: The proposed use of the property for food service and retail aligns
       with the purpose of Community/Neighborhood Commercial zoning.

   •   Traffic Compatibility: Given the existing traffic patterns in the area, this designation
       change will have no adverse effects on Draper City’s infrastructure or traffic flow.

   •   Community Benefit: The proposed change will enable commercial uses that directly
       serve the surrounding community and neighborhood.

3. How is the requested land use designation harmonious with the overall character of
existing development in the vicinity of the subject property? Explain.
The requested designation is harmonious with the surrounding development for several reasons:

   •   The property is located along the Bangerter Highway corridor, a major roadway that
       already supports commercial uses.

   •   Two of the three other corners at the intersection are already designated as
       Community/Neighborhood Commercial, making this change a logical and compatible
       extension of the existing land use pattern.
   •   The remaining corner is designated as Regional Commercial, further reinforcing the
       area’s commercial nature.

   •   The proposed retail and food service use aligns with the needs of the surrounding
       community, complementing existing businesses and services in the area.

4. Is the proposed land use designation consistent with the goals, objectives, and policies of
the City’s General Plan? Explain.
Yes, the proposed Community/Neighborhood Commercial land use designation aligns with
Draper City’s General Plan in the following ways:

   •   Encourages commercial development in key corridors: The General Plan supports
       commercial development along major roadways like Bangerter Highway, where
       businesses can efficiently serve the community.

   •   Enhances economic growth: By allowing for food service and retail, this designation
       supports local businesses and contributes to the city’s economic vitality.

   •   Promotes land use compatibility: The change ensures that all parcels within the
       proposal comply with their designated land use, creating consistency and preventing
       fragmented zoning.

   •   Serves the immediate community: The proposed designation facilitates neighborhood-
       oriented businesses that directly meet the needs of local residents and visitors.

For these reasons, this land use designation change is a logical and beneficial adjustment that
aligns with Draper City’s long-term planning goals.
                                                                                                                         My Map




                                                                                                                                             Parcels
                                                                                                                                              to be
                                                                                                                                            ReZoned




March 28, 2025                                                                                                                                                                                                                        1:2,180
                                                                                                                                                                                                            0          0.01         0.03                       0.05 mi

                                                                                                                                                                                                            0            0.02          0.04                          0.09 km
                                                                                                                                                                                               County of Salt Lake, County of Utah, Bureau of Land Management, Utah
                                                                                                                                                                                               AGRC, Esri, HERE, Garmin, INCREMENT P, NGA, USGS

                                                                                                                                                                                                      This map was created by the office of the Salt Lake County Assessor, in
     The information depicted here is to be taken as an approximate fit in regards to the spatial position of the layers presented. This map is not intended to represent an actual field Survey of, nor establish the acutal relation between, any of the layers depicted here.
                                                                      DRAPER 138 - SURVEY                                                      SYMBOL LEGEND:                           SYMBOL LEGEND:
                                                           Located in the Northwest Quarter of Section 6,                                      FIRE HYDRANT (FH)                        SECTION LINE

                                                    Township 4 South, Range 1 East, Salt Lake Base and Meridian




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      1300 W.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     12300 S.
                                                                                                                                               SIGNAL POLE                              BOUNDARY LINE

                                                        215 East 13800 South, Draper, Salt Lake County, Utah




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 SEAL
                                                                                                                                               POWER POLE (PP)                          ADJACENT PROPERTY LINE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       REDWOOD ROAD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              1300 E.
                                                                                                                                               SEWER MANHOLE                            COMMUNICATION LINE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 VICINITY




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              I-15
                                                                                                                                               SD MANHOLE (SDMH)                        ELECTRICAL LINE                                                            MAP




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      300 E.
                                                                                                                                               WATER VALVE (WV)                         FENCE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   A.L.M. & Associates, Inc.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         2230 North University Parkway, Building 6D, Provo, Utah 84604 ph:( 801) 374 - 6262
                                                                                                                                               WATER METER (WM)                         OVERHEAD POWER LINE                                                                                                          SITE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     BANGERTER HWY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        13800 S.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Engineering Surveying Development Planning
                                                                                                                                                                                        SEWER PIPE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            BANGERTER HWY




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          .
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        D
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     D
                                                                                                                                 North
                                                                                                                                                                                        STORM DRAIN PIPE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    N
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  LA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 H
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                IG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               H
                                                                                                                                                                                        WATER PIPE                                                                14600 S.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             I-1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  NARRATIVE:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  I was asked by the owner to perform an Boundary Survey of the subject property being located 215
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  East 13800 South, Draper, Utah, Salt Lake County, Utah.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  The survey was begun at the East Corner of Section 6, Township 4 South, Range 1 East, Salt Lake
                                                                                                        N89°26'42"E 348.15'                                                                                                       Base and Meridian. The Basis of Bearing being South 89°56'23" East along the Section from the
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  East Quarter Corner to the calculated True Center of the Section of said Section 6.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  The survey data was calculated and plotted together with the deeds, plats, and surveys from the
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  office of Salt Lake County Recorder, and a title report provided by American First Title Company, of
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  the surrounding properties to show any gaps or overlaps between the deeds and the field survey of
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  the subject property.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  This survey does not guarantee, grant, transfer or imply fee title ownership of any portion of this
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  property in whole or part to any party or persons. This survey makes reference to owners names,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  documents and deed lines which are depicted hereon to the best of the surveyor's ability, however all
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  information shown hereon should be verified by county records, title companies and other qualified
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  professionals to meet the specific purposes and intents of the client. Furthermore, the filing of this
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  survey with the respective county in which the property is situated does not serve as an instrument to
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  subdivide, transfer, sell, or trade any portion of the property shown hereon. It is recommended that a
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  qualified title company and/or other qualified professionals be contacted to address any and all
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  questions regarding property ownership, title and the transfer of real property.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  SURVEY BOUNDARY DESCRIPTION:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  BEGINNING AT AN EXISTING REBAR AND CAP LOCATED BEHIND THE EXISTING SIDEWALK
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  OF 13800 SOUTH STREET, SAID POINT BEING LOCATED NORTH 00°39'30" WEST 8.57 FEET
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  TO THE FOUND STANDARD COUNTY MONUMENT FOR THE CENTER OF SECTION 6 AND
                             L=165.41' R=719.17'                                                                                                                                                                                  WEST 458.01 FEET AND NORTH 55.10 FROM THE CALCULATED TRUE CENTER OF SECTION
                      C=165.04' CB=N06°47'49"W                                                                                                                                                                                    6 AT THE INTERSECTION OF 13800 SOUTH AND 300 EAST (MONUMENT WAS NOT FOUND),
                                                                                                PARCEL 1                                                                                                                          TOWNSHIP 4 SOUTH, RANGE 1 EAST, SALT LAKE BASE AND MERIDIAN; THENCE ALONG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  THE NORTHERLY RIGHT OF WAY OF 13800 SOUTH STREET THE FOLLOWING TWO (2)
                                                                                              62,635.54 SQ.FT.                                                                                                                    CALLS: NORTH 86°52'26" WEST 99.40 FEET, NORTH 89°40'40" WEST 217.33 FEET TO AN




                                                                                                                                                                                             SOUTH 194.18'
                                                                                                1.44 ACRES                                                                                                                        EXISTING REBAR AND CAP BEHIND THE EXISTING SIDEWALK OF 13800 SOUTH STREET;
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  THENCE ALONG THE EASTERLY RIGHT OF WAY OF BANGATER HIGHWAY THE FOLLOWING
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  THREE (3) CALLS: NORTH 47°30'37" WEST 16.24 FEET TO AN EXISTING REBAR AND CAP,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  NORTH 00°12'30" WEST 9.31 FEET, ALONG AN ARC OF A 719.17 FOOT RADIUS CURVE TO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  THE LEFT 165.41 FEET (CHORD BEARS NORTH 06°47'49" WEST 165.04 FEET) TO AN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  EXISTING REBAR AND CAP; THENCE NORTH 89°26'42" EAST ALONG AN EXISTING FENCE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  LINE 348.15 FEET TO AN EXISTING FENCE; THENCE SOUTH ALONG AN EXISTING FENCE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  LINE 194.18 FEET TO THE POINT OF BEGINNING.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  AREA = 62,635.54 SQ.FT. / 1.44 ACRES

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  SURVEY CERTIFICATE

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  I SEAN A. FERNANDEZ, Professional Land Surveyor, as prescribed by the laws of the State of Utah
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  and holding license No. 312775 do hereby certify: That this plat was prepared from notes of a field
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  survey made by me or under my direction together with records from the Utah County Recorders
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Office. That due care was exercised in performing said survey and calculations used to prepare the




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                DRAFT ALTA/NSPS Survey
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  plat. That this plat is a true and correct representation of said survey to the best of my knowledge
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  and conviction.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Date of Plat or Map: _____________
                                                            N00°12'30"W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          OPENSHAW DEVELOPMENT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Revision Date(s): _______________
                                                               9.31'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  __________ _______________________________________________
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Sean A. Fernandez - Registered Public Surveyor No.: 312775
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  2230 N. University Parkway, Suite 6D, Provo Utah 84604 (801-374-6262)
                                                                N4
                                                                     7°
                                                                  16 30'3
                                                                    .2 7"
                                                                      4' W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       DRAPER 138
                                                                                        N89°40'40"W 217.33'
                                                                                                                                                        N86°52'26"W 99.40'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              P:\559-1707\dwg\1707-Draper 138 Survey R1.dwg 12 Sep 2019 11:06am
                                                                                                                                                                                                             PI MONUMENT OF CENTER OF SECTION 6




                                                                                                                                                                                             NORTH 55.10'
                                                                                                                                                                   POINT OF BEGINNING                             TOWNSHIP 4 SOUTH, RANGE 1 EAST
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     SALT LAKE BASE AND MERIDIAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             13800 SOUTH 300 EAST
                                                                                                                                                                                                              FOUND STANDARD COUNTY MONUMENT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ELEVATION: 4465.48'
          WEST QUARTER CORNER OF SECTION 6
          TOWNSHIP 4 SOUTH, RANGE 1 EAST
          SALT LAKE BASE AND MERIDIAN
          CALCULATED FROM TIE SHEET

                                                                                                                                                                                                                               WEST 458.01'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        N00°39'30"W 8.57'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         6




         WEST 153.94'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   6   5




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             S89°56'23"W 2642.46'
1    6                                          1   6

                                                                                                                        S89°55'03"W 2462.25'                                                                    CALCULATED TRUE CENTER OF SECTION 6                                                                                                                                  No.           Revision                                                Date




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            S00°19'55"E 2681.36'
    WEST WITNESS QUARTER CORNER OF SECTION 6                                                                                                                                                                       INTERSECTION 13800 SOUTH 300 EAST
               TOWNSHIP 4 SOUTH, RANGE 1 EAST                                                                                                                                                                                 NO MONUMNENT FOUND
                  SALT LAKE BASE AND MERIDIAN


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         1
                 FOUND MONUMENT ELEV: 4436.22
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          EAST QUARTER CORNER OF SECTION 6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             TOWNSHIP 4 SOUTH, RANGE 1 EAST
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                SALT LAKE BASE AND MERIDIAN                                                                                OF           1                              SHEETS

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    FOUND MONUMENT BEFORE 2019 ELEV: 4518.78
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                (NO MONUMNET FOUND IN 2019)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Proj #               000 - 0000
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       SOUTHEAST CORNER OF SECTION 6                                    6   5


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       TOWNSHIP 4 SOUTH, RANGE 1 EAST                                   7   8

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           SALT LAKE BASE AND MERIDIAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    FOUND STANDARD COUNTY MONUMENT
Exhibit A




     6
