                                    ORDINANCE NO. 1696

        AN ORDINANCE OF DRAPER CITY AMENDING THE TEXT OF TITLES 9, 10, 17, AND
        18 OF THE DRAPER CITY MUNICIPAL CODE RELATED TO THE GEOLOGIC
        HAZARDS ORDINANCE.

      WHEREAS, Utah State law grants to Draper City the authority to regulate uses of
property by enacting land use regulations, among other methods; and

       WHEREAS, it is necessary from time to time to amend certain terms of the Draper City
Municipal Code to address provisions that become diminished in appropriateness,
applicability, or clarity; and

        WHEREAS, the City Council of Draper City adopted the Geologic Hazards Ordinance
to protect the health, safety, and welfare of the citizens of Draper City, protect Draper City's
infrastructure and financial health, and minimize adverse effects of geologic hazards to
public health, safety, and property by encouraging wise land use; and

       WHEREAS, the City Council of Draper City finds good cause to revise the terms and
provisions of the Geologic Hazards Ordinance and move it to a new chapter; and

      WHEREAS, notice has been issued according to the requirements of the Utah Code
Annotated and Draper City Municipal Code for public hearings before the Planning
Commission and City Council to receive public input regarding the revision of portions of the
Draper City Municipal Code; and

       WHEREAS, the Planning Commission and City Council have each held a public hearing
to receive public input regarding the revision of portions of the Draper City Municipal Code.

      NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF DRAPER CITY, STATE OF
UTAH, AS FOLLOWS:

       Section 1.     Findings. The City Council of Draper City has made the following
findings that the proposed text amendments to Title 9, 10, 17, and 18 of the Draper City
Municipal Code: 1. The proposed amendment is consistent with goals, objectives and policies
of the city's general plan. 2. The proposed amendment is appropriate given the context of
the request and there is sufficient justification for a modification to the Development Codes.
3. The proposed amendment will not create a conflict with any other section or part of the
Development Codes or the general plan. 4. The potential effects of the proposed
amendment have been evaluated and determined to be beneficial to public health, safety,
and welfare and represent an overall community benefit. 5. The proposed text amendment
implements best current, professional practices of urban planning, design, and engineering
practices.

Ordinance No. 1696                             1                City Initiated Geologic Hazards Ordinance
                                                                                         Text Amendment
      Section 2.    Repeal. Chapter 9-19 of the Land Use and Development Regulations
Code of the Draper City Municipal Code is hereby repealed as set forth in Exhibit A.

      Section 3.    Enactment. Chapter 10-7 of the Building Regulations Code of the
Draper City Municipal Code is hereby enacted to read as set forth in Exhibit A.

       Section 4.   Amendment. Sections 9-5-090, 9-16-020, 9-16-030, 9-16-050, and 9-27-
085 of the Land Use and Development Code, Section 17-4-030, of the Land Development
Code, and Section 18-2-010 of the Land Disturbance Code of the Draper City Municipal Code
are hereby amended to read as set forth in Exhibit A.

      Section 5.    Correction of Editing Errors. The city attorney is authorized to correct
any punctuation, spelling, formatting, clerical, or de minimis errors in Exhibit A prior to
submitting the ordinance for publishing.

        Section 4.   Severability. If any section, part or provision of this Ordinance is held
invalid or unenforceable, such invalidity or unenforceability shall not affect any other portion
of this Ordinance, and all sections, parts and provisions of this Ordinance shall be severable.

        Section 5.   Effective Date. This Ordinance shall become effective immediately
upon publication or posting, or 30 days after final passage, whichever is closer to the date of
final passage.

PASSED AND ADOPTED BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF DRAPER CITY, STATE OF UTAH, ON THE 16th
DAY OF DECEMBER, 2025.

                                                   DRAPER CITY



                                                   _____________________________
                                                   Mayor Troy K. Walker

ATTEST:



_________________________________
Nicole Smedley, City Recorder




Ordinance No. 1696                             2                City Initiated Geologic Hazards Ordinance
                                                                                         Text Amendment
 VOTE TAKEN:                   YES    NO         ABSENT
 Councilmember Green           ____   ____       ____
 Councilmember Johnson         ____   ____       ____
 Councilmember T. Lowery       ____   ____       ____
 Councilmember F. Lowry        ____   ____       ____
 Councilmember Vawdrey         ____   ____       ____
 Mayor Walker                  ____   ____       ____




Ordinance No. 1696         3          City Initiated Geologic Hazards Ordinance
                                                               Text Amendment
                                        EXHIBIT A


TITLE 9
LAND USE AND DEVELOPMENT REGULATIONS

…

9-5-090: SITE PLAN REVIEW:

…

D. Procedure: An application for site plan approval shall be considered and processed as
   provided in this subsection.

    1. A complete application shall be submitted to the office of the zoning administrator
       in a form established by the administrator, along with any fee established by the
       city's consolidated fee schedule. The application shall include the following
       information:

       …

       d. A single electronic set of development plans showing the information required in
          subsections D(1)(d)(1) to D(1)(d)(6) of this section. The information required by
          each subsection shall be shown on separate sheets. Plans shall be drawn at a
          scale no smaller than one inch equals one hundred feet (1" = 100'). Plan sets
          shall be prepared, stamped and signed by the professional, licensed with the
          state of Utah, who prepared the drawings or is professionally responsible for the
          drawings content, including the engineering, landscaping and architectural
          drawings. The development plans shall include:

              (1) Site plan showing the following:

              …

                     (H) Geologic hazards setbacks and geologic-restricted areas as
                     defined in Section 10-7-20.

                     …

       e. Soils report, geotechnical reports, and geologic hazards reports as required
          elsewhere in this Title 10, Chapter 7, of this code.

…

9-16-020: SCOPE:

…
C. Preliminary Activities: The following requirements shall govern any preliminary
   surveying, testing, or design related activities conducted within the hillside sensitive
   lands overlay zone for the purpose of exploring, evaluating and/or establishing
   locations for any permanent improvements. Preliminary activities associated with the
   investigation of geologic hazards shall also be subject to the requirements of section 9-
   19-070 Section 10-7-070, "Preliminary Activities", of this title code.

    …

9-16-030: PROCEDURE:

…

C. Preliminary Approval: Following conceptual master plan approval, a preliminary
   approval shall be obtained. The following information and reports shall be submitted as
   part of an application for preliminary approval and may be in addition to information
   required for preliminary approval for a subdivision:

    …

    4. A geotechnical and geological report in accordance with the provisions of chapter 19
       Title 10, Chapter 7, "Geologic Hazards", of this title code.

    …

9-16-050: DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS:

…

C. Cut And Fill Slopes:

    1. Cut and fill slopes shall be provided in accordance with chapter 19 of this title Title
       10, Chapter 7, “Geologic Hazards”, slope stability ordinance, and title 18, "Land
       Disturbance", of this code.

    …

CHAPTER 19
GEOLOGIC HAZARDS

9-19-010: PURPOSE:

A. The purpose of this geologic hazards chapter is to protect the health, safety, and
   welfare of the citizens of Draper City, protect Draper City's infrastructure and financial
   health, and minimize adverse effects of geologic hazards to public health, safety, and
   property by encouraging wise land use.
B. This chapter and its appendices address surface fault rupture, slope stability,
   liquefaction, debris flow, and rockfall hazards, and present minimum standards and
   methods for evaluating geologic hazards.

C. Results of geologic hazard studies shall comply with this chapter and its appendices.
   The standards set forth in the appendices are minimum requirements. More complex
   projects may require more detailed and in depth evaluations than outlined herein. In
   addition, the appendices shall not supersede other more stringent requirements that
   may be required by other regulatory agents.

D. Section 9-19-161-1, appendix A of this chapter presents geologic hazards study area
   maps reflecting geological concerns pertaining to development within Draper City. The
   maps incorporate data obtained from previous geologic hazard studies. Site specific
   geologic hazard assessments performed by qualified engineering geologists shall be
   required prior to developing projects located within a geologic hazards study area. In
   the event known or readily apparent geologic hazards exist in an area subject to a
   development application, which area is not depicted on the geologic hazards study area
   maps, the developer shall nevertheless submit the applicable study and the process
   outlined in this chapter shall be followed.



9-19-020: DEFINITIONS:

As used in this chapter:

ACCEPTABLE AND REASONABLE RISK: No loss or significant injury to occupants, no release
of hazardous or toxic substances, and minimal structural damage.

ACCESSORY BUILDING: Any structure not designed for human occupancy, which may
include tool or storage sheds, gazebos, and swimming pools.

ACTIVE FAULT: A fault displaying evidence of displacement along one or more of its traces
during Holocene time, which is approximately ten thousand (10,000) years ago to the
present.

AVALANCHE: A large mass of snow, ice, soil or rock, or a mixture of these materials, falling,
sliding, or flowing rapidly under the force of gravity.

BUILDABLE AREA: Based on an accepted engineering geology report, the portion of a site
not impacted by geologic hazards, or the portion of a site where it is concluded the
identified geologic hazards can be mitigated to a level where risk to human life, property
and city infrastructure are reduced and where structures may be safely sited.

CITY: The public works director, city engineer, community development director, planning
manager, building official, or other Draper City employee.

CITY COUNCIL: The city council of Draper City.
CRITICAL FACILITIES: Essential, hazardous, special occupancy facilities, and occupancy
categories III and IV as defined in the currently adopted international building code, and
lifelines, such as major utility, transportation, and communication facilities and their
connections to critical facilities.

DEBRIS FLOW: A slurry of rock, soil, organic material, and water transported in an
extremely fast and destructive flow that flows down channels and onto and across alluvial
fans; including a continuum of sedimentation events and processes, including debris flows,
debris floods, mudflows, clear water floods, and alluvial fan flooding.

DEVELOPMENT: All critical facilities, subdivisions, single- and multi-family dwellings,
commercial and industrial buildings; also additions to or intensification of existing
buildings, storage facilities, pipelines and utility conveyances, and other land uses.

ENGINEERING GEOLOGIST: A Utah licensed geologist, who, through education, training, and
experience, is competent in applying geologic data, geologic techniques, and geologic
principles, which includes conducting field investigations, so that geologic conditions and
geologic factors affecting engineered works, groundwater resources, and land use planning
are recognized, adequately interpreted, and clearly presented for use in engineering
practice, land use planning, and for the protection of the public, and who utilizes
specialized geologic training and experience to provide quantitative geologic information
and recommendations and also works with and for land use planners, environmental
specialists, architects, public policymakers, and property owners to provide geologic
information on which decisions can be made.

ENGINEERING GEOLOGY: Geologic work that is relevant to engineering and environmental
concerns, and the public health, safety, and welfare. "Engineering geology" is the
application of geological data, principles, and interpretation so that geological factors
affecting planning, design, construction, and maintenance of engineered works, land use
planning, and groundwater resources are adequately recognized and properly interpreted
for use in engineering, land use planning, and related practice.

ESSENTIAL FACILITY: Buildings and other structures intended to remain operational in the
event of an adverse geologic event, including all structures defined in section 9-19-160,
"Table 1", of this chapter.

FAULT: A fracture in the earth's crust forming a boundary between rock or soil masses that
have moved relative to each other.

FAULT SCARP: A steep slope or cliff formed by movement along a fault.

FAULT SETBACK: An area on either side of a fault within which structures for human
occupancy or critical facilities or their structural supports are not permitted.

FAULT TRACE: The intersection of a fault plane with the ground surface, often present as a
fault scarp, or detected as a lineament on aerial photographs.
FAULT ZONE: A corridor of variable width along one or more fault traces, within which
deformation has occurred.

GEOLOGIC HAZARD: A surface fault rupture, liquefaction, slope stability, landslide, debris
flow, and rockfall that may present a risk to life or property.

GEOLOGIC HAZARD STUDY AREA: A potentially hazardous area as shown on the geologic
hazard study area maps within which hazard investigations are required prior to
development.

GEOTECHNICAL ENGINEER: A professional, Utah licensed engineer who, through education,
training and experience, is competent in the field of geotechnical engineering.

GEOTECHNICAL ENGINEERING: The investigation and engineering evaluation of earth
materials, including soil, rock, and manmade materials and their interaction with earth
retention systems, foundations, and other civil engineering works. The practice involves the
fields of soil mechanics, rock mechanics, and earth sciences and requires knowledge of
engineering laws, formulas, construction techniques, and performance evaluation of
engineering.

GOVERNING BODY: The city council, or a designee of the city council.

LANDSLIDE: The downslope movement of a mass of soil, surficial deposits or bedrock,
including a continuum of processes between landslides, earth flows, debris flows and
debris avalanches, and rockfalls.

LIQUEFACTION: A process by which certain water saturated soils lose bearing strength
because of earthquake related ground shaking and subsequent increase of groundwater
pore pressure.

NONBUILDABLE AREA: That portion of a site which a geologic hazards report has concluded
may be impacted by geologic hazards and where the siting of critical facilities is not
permitted.

ROCKFALL: A rock or mass of rock, newly detached from a cliff or other steep slope which
moves downslope by falling, rolling, toppling, or bouncing; includes rockslides, rockfall
avalanches, and talus.

SETBACK: An area within which support of critical facilities is not permitted.

SLOPE STABILITY: The resistance of a natural or artificial slope or other inclined surface to
failure by landsliding, usually assessed under both static and dynamic (earthquake
induced) conditions.

SNOW AVALANCHE: A mass of predominantly snow and ice, but also including a mixture of
soil or rock and organic debris, falling, sliding, and/or flowing rapidly under the force of
gravity.
STRUCTURE DESIGNED FOR HUMAN OCCUPANCY: Any residential dwelling or any other
structure used or intended for supporting or sheltering any use or occupancy, which is
expected to have an occupancy rate of at least two thousand (2,000) person hours per year,
but does not include an accessory building.

TALUS: Rock fragments lying at the base of a cliff or a very steep rocky slope.



9-19-030: APPLICABILITY:

The regulations contained in this chapter shall apply to all lands in Draper City.



9-19-040: RESPONSIBILITY FOR GEOLOGIC HAZARD STUDIES:

Geologic hazard studies often involve both engineering geology and geotechnical
engineering. Engineering geologic studies shall be performed under the direct supervision
of a qualified engineering geologist. Geotechnical engineering studies shall be performed
under the direct supervision of a qualified geotechnical engineer.



9-19-050: MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS OF THE GEOLOGIST:

Engineering geology and the evaluation of geologic hazards is a specialized discipline within
the practice of geology requiring technical expertise and knowledge of techniques not
commonly used in other geologic investigations. Therefore, geologic hazard investigations
involving engineering geologic studies shall only be accepted by Draper City when
conducted and signed by a qualified engineering geologist. The minimum qualifications of
the engineering geologist who performs geologic hazard investigations are:

A. An undergraduate or graduate degree in geology, engineering geology, or geological
   engineering, or closely related field, from an accredited college or university;

B. Five (5) full years of experience in a responsible position in the field of engineering
   geology in Utah, or in a state with similar geologic hazards and regulatory environment.
   This experience must demonstrate the engineering geologist's knowledge and
   application of appropriate techniques in performing geologic hazard studies; and

C. A Utah state professional geologist's license.



9-19-060: MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS OF THE ENGINEER:

Evaluation and mitigation of geologic hazards often require contributions from a qualified
geotechnical engineer, particularly in the design of mitigation measures. Geotechnical
engineering is a specialized discipline within the practice of civil engineering requiring
technical expertise and knowledge of techniques not commonly used in civil engineering
investigations. Therefore, geologic hazard investigations requiring contributions from a
qualified geotechnical engineer will only be accepted by Draper City when also signed and
sealed by a qualified geotechnical engineer. Minimum qualifications of the geotechnical
engineer who participates in geologic hazard investigations are:

A. A graduate degree in civil engineering, with an emphasis in geotechnical engineering; or
   a B.S. degree in civil engineering with twelve (12) semester hours of post-B.S. credit in
   geotechnical engineering, or course content related to evaluation of geologic hazards,
   from an accredited college or university;

B. Five (5) full years of experience in a responsible position in the field of geotechnical
   engineering in Utah, or in a state with similar geologic hazards and regulatory
   environment, and experience demonstrating the engineer's knowledge and application
   of appropriate techniques in participating in geologic hazard studies; and

C. A Utah state professional engineer's license.



9-19-070: PRELIMINARY ACTIVITIES:

A. Development Improvements: This section shall apply to any geologic hazard
   investigation for the purpose of determining the feasibility of development or for the
   purpose of exploring, evaluating or establishing locations for permanent
   improvements.

B. Scoping Meeting: The developer or consultant shall schedule a scoping meeting with
   the city to evaluate the engineering geologist/geotechnical engineer's investigative
   approach. At this meeting, the consultant shall present a work plan that includes
   locations of anticipated geologic hazards and locations of proposed exploratory
   excavations, such as trenches, borings, and CPT soundings, which meet the minimum
   standard of practice. The investigation approach should allow for flexibility due to
   unexpected site conditions. Field findings may require modifications to the work plan.
   Upon completion of a successful scoping meeting, a land disturbance permit
   application may be submitted to Draper City.

C. Land Disturbance Permit: As required by title 18 of this code and except as otherwise
   noted therein, no person shall commence or perform any land disturbance, grading,
   relocation of earth, or any other land disturbance activity, without first obtaining a land
   disturbance permit. Application for a land disturbance permit shall be filed with the city
   engineer on forms furnished by the city for such purposes only after a scoping meeting
   has taken place.
D. Responsible Contact: The applicant shall specify a primary contact responsible for
   coordination with the city during the land disturbance activity.



9-19-080: GEOLOGIC HAZARDS STUDY AREA MAPS:

A. Geologic hazards study area maps are prepared using the best available scientific
   information but are necessarily generalized and designed only to indicate areas where
   hazards may exist and where geologic hazards studies are required. Because the
   geologic hazards study area maps are prepared at a nonsite specific scale, hazards may
   exist that are not shown on the geologic hazards study area maps. The fact that a site is
   not in a geologic hazards study area for a particular hazard does not exempt the
   applicant from considering the hazard if evidence is found that it may exist. If it is
   subsequently determined that the site has geologic hazards that are not shown on the
   geologic hazards study area maps, the review process will be pursuant to this chapter.

B. Geologic hazards study area boundaries shown on the maps will not be systematically
   adjusted as each individual site specific study indicates whether or not an actual hazard
   exists at a site because geologic hazards study area maps are meant only to indicate
   where scientific evidence indicates a hazard may exist. However, geologic hazards study
   area maps may be updated and amended by the city if found to be inaccurate or in
   error, or as new methods or data are developed to better define areas of potential
   hazards.

C. Where geologic hazards study area maps are thought by an applicant to be inaccurate
   or in error and require revision, the applicant shall submit to the city technical evidence
   by a qualified professional supporting the claim and showing the proposed revision.
   The city will review the information and render a decision. The applicant may appeal
   that decision to the city council.



9-19-090: GEOLOGIC HAZARD STUDIES AND REPORTS REQUIRED:

Any applicant requesting development approval on a parcel of land within a geologic
hazard study area or where there are known or readily apparent geologic hazards and the
area is not depicted on the geologic hazards study area maps, shall submit to the city two
(2) paper copies and one electronic copy of a site specific geologic hazard study report.



9-19-100: GEOLOGIC HAZARD REPORTS:

A. Each geologic hazards report shall be site specific and shall identify all known or
   suspected potential geologic hazards, originating on site or off site, whether previously
   identified or previously unrecognized, that may affect the subject property. All geologic
   hazards reports shall include the original or wet signature and professional seal, both in
   blue ink, of the qualified professional. Geologic hazards reports coprepared by
   professional geologists and engineers must include both professionals' original
   signature and seal in blue ink.

B. Surface fault rupture reports shall contain all requirements as described in section 9-
   19-161-2, "Appendix B, Minimum Standards For Surface Fault Rupture Hazard Studies",
   of this chapter. Surface fault rupture studies shall be prepared by a qualified
   engineering geologist.

C. Slope stability and landslide reports shall contain all requirements as described in
   section 9-19-161-3, "Appendix C, Minimum Standards For Slope Stability Analysis", of
   this chapter. Slope stability and landslide studies shall be prepared by a qualified
   engineering geologist and a qualified geotechnical engineer.

D. Liquefaction reports shall contain all requirements as described in section 9-19-161-4,
   "Appendix D, Minimum Standards For Liquefaction Investigations And Evaluations", of
   this chapter. Liquefaction analyses shall be prepared by a qualified geotechnical
   engineer. Liquefaction investigations are not required for residential construction
   classified in the international residential code as R-3.

E. Debris flow reports shall contain all requirements as described in section 9-19-161-5,
   "Appendix E, Minimum Standards For Debris Flow Analyses", of this chapter. Debris
   flow hazard investigations shall be prepared by a qualified engineering geologist.
   Mitigation measures will generally require contributions from geotechnical engineers,
   hydrologists, or civil engineers.

F. Rockfall reports shall contain all requirements as described in section 9-19-161-6,
   "Appendix F, Minimum Standards For Rockfall Analyses", of this chapter. Rockfall
   studies shall be prepared by a qualified engineering geologist. Mitigation measures will
   generally require contributions from geotechnical and/or civil engineers.

G. All geologic hazards reports shall include, at a minimum:

   1. A one to twenty four thousand (1:24,000) scale geologic map, with references,
      showing the general surface geology (landslides, alluvial fans, etc.), bedrock geology
      where exposed, bedding attitudes, faults, and other geologic structural features;

   2. A detailed site map of the subject area, at a scale equal to or more detailed than one
      inch equals two hundred feet (1" = 200'), showing the locations of subsurface
      investigations and site specific geologic mapping performed as part of the geologic
      investigation, including boundaries and features related to any geologic hazards,
      topography, and drainage. The site map must show the location and boundaries of
      the property, geologic hazards, delineation of any recommended setback distances
      from hazards, and recommended locations for structures. Buildable and
      nonbuildable areas shall be clearly identified;
   3. Trench logs, when applicable, prepared in the field and presented in the geologic
      hazard report at a scale equal to or more detailed than one inch equals five feet (1"
      = 5');

   4. Boring logs when applicable, prepared with standard geologic nomenclature;

   5. Listing of aerial photographs used and other supporting information, as applicable;

   6. Conclusions, clearly supported by adequate data included in the report, that
      summarize the characteristics of the geologic hazards, and that address the
      potential effects of the geologic conditions and geologic hazards on the proposed
      development and occupants thereof, particularly in terms of risk and potential
      damage;

   7. Specific recommendations for additional or more detailed studies, as may be
      required to understand or quantify a geologic hazard;

   8. An evaluation of whether or not mitigation measures are required, including an
      evaluation of multiple mitigation options;

   9. Specific recommendations for avoidance or mitigation of the effects of the hazards,
      consistent with the purposes set forth in section 9-19-010 of this chapter, including
      design or performance criteria for engineered mitigation measures and all
      supporting calculations, analyses, modeling or other methods, and assumptions.
      Final design plans and specifications for engineered mitigation must be signed and
      stamped by a qualified geotechnical, civil and/or structural engineer, as appropriate;

   10. Data upon which recommendations and conclusions are based, shall be clearly
      stated in the report; and

   11. A statement shall be provided regarding the suitability of the proposed
      development from a geologic hazard perspective.

H. When a submitted report does not contain adequate data to support its findings,
   additional or more detailed studies shall be required to explain or quantify a particular
   geologic hazard or to describe how mitigation measures recommended in the report
   are appropriate and adequate.



9-19-110: REVIEW OF GEOLOGIC HAZARD REPORTS:

A. Scope: The city shall review any proposed land use which requires preparation of a
   geologic hazards report under this chapter to determine the possible risks to the safety
   of persons, property and city infrastructure from geologic hazards.
B. Submittal: Prior to consideration of any request for preliminary plat approval or site
   plan approval, the geologic hazards report, if required, shall be submitted to the city for
   review.

C. Time Frame For Review: The city will complete each review in a reasonable time frame,
   not to exceed forty five (45) days.

D. Costs Borne By Applicant: All direct costs associated with the review of geologic hazard
   studies shall be paid by the applicant.

E. Records: The city shall retain a copy of each geologic report in the planning division
   project file.

F. Standards: The city shall determine whether the report complies with all of the
   following standards:

   1. A suitable geologic hazard report has been prepared by qualified professionals.

   2. The proposed land use does not present an unreasonable risk to the health, safety,
      and welfare of persons or property, including buildings, storm drains, public streets,
      culinary water facilities, utilities or critical facilities, whether off site or on site, or to
      the aesthetics and natural functions of the landscape, such as slopes, streams or
      other waterways, drainage, or wildlife habitat, whether off site or on site, because of
      the presence of geologic hazards or because of modifications to the site due to the
      proposed land use.

   3. The proposed land use demonstrates that, consistent with the state of the practice,
      the identified geologic hazards can be mitigated to a level where the risk to human
      life and damage to property are reduced to an acceptable and reasonable level in a
      manner which will not violate applicable federal, state, or local statutes, ordinances
      or regulations. Mitigation measures should consider, in their design, the intended
      aesthetic functions of other governing ordinances, such as the sensitive lands
      overlay zone. The applicant must include with the geologic hazards report a
      mitigation plan that defines how the identified hazards or limitations will be
      addressed without impacting or adversely affecting off site areas. Mitigation
      measures must be reasonable and practical to implement especially if such
      measures require ongoing maintenance by property owners.

G. Additional Requirements: The city may set other requirements as are necessary to
   overcome any geologic hazards and to ensure that the purposes of this chapter are
   met. These requirements may include, but are not limited to:

   1. Additional or more detailed studies to understand or quantify the hazard or
      determine whether mitigation measures recommended in the report are adequate;

   2. Specific mitigation requirements; establishing buildable and nonbuildable areas;
      limitations on slope grading and controls on grading, or revegetation;
   3. Grading plans, when required, shall be prepared, signed and sealed by a licensed
      professional engineer. As built grading plans, when required, shall be signed and
      sealed by the project geotechnical engineer as well as the professional engineer that
      prepared the grading plans. Grading plans, when required, shall include, at a
      minimum, the following:

       a. Maps of existing and proposed contours;

       b. Present and proposed slopes for each graded area;

       c. Existing and proposed drainage patterns;

       d. Location and depth of all proposed cuts and fills;

       e. Description of methods to be employed to achieve stabilization and compaction;

       f. Location and capacities of proposed drainage, structures, and erosion control
          measures based on maximum runoff for a 100-year storm;

       g. Location of existing buildings or structures on or within one hundred feet (100')
          of the site, or which may be affected by proposed grading and construction; and

       h. Plan for monitoring and documentation of testing, field inspections during
          grading, and reporting to the city.

   4. Installation of monitoring equipment and seasonal monitoring of surface and
      subsurface geologic conditions, including groundwater levels; and

   5. Other requirements such as time schedules for completion of the mitigation and
      phasing of development.

H. Condition Of Approval: Draper City may also set requirements necessary to protect the
   health, safety, and welfare of the citizens of Draper City, protect Draper City's
   infrastructure and financial health, and minimize potential adverse effects of geologic
   hazards to public health, safety, and property as a condition of approval of any
   development which requires a geologic hazards report.

I. On Site Professional; Final Inspection: Draper City may require a qualified professional
   be on site, at the cost of the developer, during certain phases of construction,
   particularly during grading phases and the construction of retaining walls. For any real
   property with respect to which development has proceeded on the basis of a geologic
   or geotechnical report which has been accepted by the city, no final inspection shall be
   completed or certificate of occupancy issued or performance bond released until the
   geotechnical engineer or engineering geologist who signed and approved the report
   certifies, in writing, that the completed improvements and structures conform to the
   descriptions and requirements contained in said report.
J. Appeal: An applicant may appeal any decision made under the provisions of this chapter
    only after the city has issued a written review of a report, and shall set forth the specific
    grounds or issues upon which the appeal is based. The appeal shall be submitted in
    writing to the director of community development within thirty (30) days of the issuance
    of the written review or other decision. The city shall assemble a professional panel of
    three (3) qualified experts to serve as the appeal authority for any technical dispute.
    The panel shall consist of an expert designated by the city, an expert designated by the
    applicant, and an expert chosen by the city's and the applicant's designated experts. If
    the city's and the applicant's designated experts cannot reach a consensus of the third
    expert within thirty (30) days, the city shall select the third expert. Decisions of the
    panel will be binding and will be based on the majority decision of the panel. The costs
    of the appeal process shall be paid by the applicant.



9-19-120: DISCLOSURE WHEN A GEOLOGIC HAZARD REPORT IS REQUIRED:

A. Form Of Disclosure: Whenever a geologic hazards report is required under this chapter,
   the owner of the parcel shall record a notice running with the land in a form
   satisfactory to Draper City prior to the approval of any development or subdivision of
   such parcel. Disclosure shall include signing a disclosure and acknowledgment form
   provided by the city, which includes:

   1. Notice that the parcel is located within a geologic hazards study area as shown on
      the geologic hazards study area map or as otherwise defined in this chapter; and

   2. Notice that a geologic hazards report was prepared and is available for public
      inspection in the city's files.

B. Additional Notification On Plat: Where geologic hazards and related setbacks are
   delineated in a subdivision, the owner shall also place additional notification on the plat
   stating the above information, prior to final approval of the plat.



9-19-130: WARNING AND DISCLAIMER:

The geologic hazards study area maps represent only those potentially hazardous areas
known to Draper City and should not be construed to include all possible potential hazard
areas. This chapter and the geologic hazards study area maps may be amended as new
information becomes available pursuant to procedures set forth in section 9-5-060 of this
title. The provisions of this chapter do not in any way assure or imply that areas outside the
geologic hazards study area maps boundaries are free from the possible adverse effects of
geologic hazards. This chapter shall not create any liability on the part of Draper City, any
Draper City officer, Draper City reviewer, or Draper City employee thereof, for any damages
from geologic hazards that result from reliance on this chapter or any administrative
requirement or decision lawfully made hereunder.



9-19-140: CHANGE OF USE:

No change in use which results in the conversion of a building or structure from one not
used for human occupancy to one that is so used shall be permitted unless the building or
structure complies with the provisions of this chapter.



9-19-150: CONFLICTING REGULATIONS:

In cases of conflict between the provisions of existing zoning classifications, building code,
subdivision ordinance, or any other ordinance of Draper City and the geologic hazards
ordinance codified in this chapter, the most restrictive provision shall apply.



9-19-160: TABLE 1:

In the event of failure, the following buildings and structures represent a substantial hazard
to human life:

   1. Those where more than 300 people congregate in one area;

   2. Elementary schools, secondary schools, or daycare facilities with an occupancy
      greater than 250;

   3. Those colleges or adult education facilities with an occupancy greater than 500;

     4. Healthcare facilities with an occupancy greater than 50 or more resident patients
       but not having surgery or emergency treatment facilities;

   5. Jails and detention facilities;

   6. Any structure with an occupancy greater than 1,000;

   7. Power generating stations, water treatment or storage for potable water,
      wastewater treatment facilities and other public utility facilities; and

   8. Those containing toxic or explosive substances that would be dangerous to the
      public if released.

The following buildings and structures are designated as essential facilities, including, but
not limited to:

   1. Hospitals and other care facilities having surgery or emergency treatment facilities;
   2. Fire, rescue and police stations and emergency vehicle garages and fueling facilities;

   3. Designated emergency shelters;

   4. Designated emergency preparedness, communications, and operation centers and
      other facilities required for emergency response;

   5. Power generating stations and other public utility facilities required as emergency
      backup facilities for facilities and structures included in this table;

   6. Structures containing highly toxic materials as defined by the most recently adopted
      version of the IBC;

   7. Aviation control towers, air traffic centers and emergency aircraft hangars;

   8. Buildings and other structures having critical national defense functions; and

   9. Water treatment and storage facilities required to maintain water pressure for fire
      suppression.



9-19-161: APPENDICES:



9-19-161-1: APPENDIX A, GEOLOGIC HAZARDS STUDY AREA MAPS:
PLATE A-1: SURFACE FAULT RUPTURE HAZARD SPECIAL STUDY AREA MAP




PLATE A-2: LIQUEFACTION SPECIAL STUDY AREA MAP
PLATE A-3: SLOPE STABILITY SPECIAL STUDY AREA MAP




PLATE A-4: DEBRIS FLOW SPECIAL STUDY AREA MAP
 PLATE A-5: ROCKFALL SPECIAL STUDY AREA MAP




9-19-161-2: APPENDIX B, MINIMUM STANDARDS FOR SURFACE FAULT RUPTURE HAZARD
STUDIES:

1.0 INTRODUCTION

The Wasatch Fault Zone (WFZ) is a major tectonic feature in the western United States,
extending for about 230 miles from near Fayette, Utah at the south to near Malad, Idaho at
the north. Surface faulting has occurred along the WFZ in northern Utah throughout late
Pleistocene and Holocene time (Lund, 1990; Black and others, 2003). "Surface faulting" is
fault-related offset or displacement of the ground surface that may occur in an earthquake.

The WFZ consists of a series of normal-slip fault segments with relative movement down to
the west and up to the east. Ten major fault segments are recognized along the WFZ
(Machette and others, 1992), which are believed to be independent in regard to their
potential for surface faulting. These segments have distinct geomorphic expression and are
clearly visible on aerial photographs.

In Salt Lake Valley, the WFZ is represented by the Salt Lake City segment which extends for
23± miles along the eastern edge of the valley (Lund, 1990). A portion of the Salt Lake City
segment of the WFZ is present within the east part of the City (Personius and Scott, 1992;
Machette, 1992).
Repeated Holocene movement has been well documented along the Salt Lake City
segment. Studies along Wasatch Boulevard near the mouth of Little Cottonwood Canyon
and at South Fork Dry Creek indicate at least four major earthquake events in the last 6,000
years (Black and others, 2003).

If a fault were to break the ground surface beneath a building, significant damage could
occur, perhaps resulting in injuries or loss of life. To reduce risk from surface-fault-rupture
hazards and to protect public health and safety, the City has defined Surface-Fault-Rupture
Special Study Areas, Quaternary faults located within the Surface-Fault-Rupture Special
Study Areas should be considered active until proven otherwise.

To ensure that buildings are not sited across Holocene-age (active) faults, the Draper City
Geologic Hazards Ordinance (Article 4, chapter 9-19 of the Draper City Municipal Code)
requires a site-specific geologic investigation of the portion of the property situated within
the Surface-Fault-Rupture Special Study Area. The primary purposes of the geologic
investigation are to assess the surface fault rupture potential of the property and to assess
the suitability of the property for the proposed development from the standpoint of
surface fault rupture. If a fault is discovered and determined (or presumed) to be
Holocene- age (i.e., "active"), appropriate building setbacks from the fault are required such
that structures are not located astride the fault trace. Building setbacks must be
established prior to development of sites located within the Surface-Fault-Rupture Special
Study Area.

A site-specific surface-fault-rupture-hazard study includes a field investigation (usually
involving the excavation and geologic documentation of a trench) and report. This
appendix describes the minimum standards required by the City for surface- fault-rupture-
hazard studies.

The purpose of establishing minimum standards for surface fault rupture hazard studies is
to:

(a) Protect the health, safety, welfare, and property of the public by minimizing the
potentially adverse effects of surface fault rupture and related hazards;

(b) Assist property owners and land developers within the Surface-Fault-Rupture Special
Study Area in conducting reasonable and adequate studies;

(c) Provide consulting engineering geologists with a common basis for preparing
proposals, conducting investigations, and recommending setbacks; and,

(d) Provide an objective framework for review of fault study report.

The procedures outlined herein are intended to provide the developer and consulting
engineering geologist with an outline of appropriate exploration methods, standardized
report information, and expectations of the City.
These standards constitute the minimum level of effort required in conducting surface-
fault-rupture-hazard special studies in the City. Considering the complexity of evaluating
surface and near- surface faults, additional effort beyond the minimum standards may be
required at some sites to adequately address the fault hazard. The information presented
herein does not relieve the engineering geologist from his/her duty to perform additional
geologic or engineering services he/she believes are necessary to assess the fault rupture
potential at a site.

1.1 References and Sources

The minimum standards presented herein were developed from the following sources:

(a) Guidelines for Evaluating Surface Fault Rupture Hazards in Utah (AEG, 1987).

(b) Guidelines to geologic and seismic reports, (CDMG, 1986a).

(c) Guidelines for preparing engineering geologic reports (CDMG, 1986b).

(d) Guidelines for Evaluating Potential Surface Fault Rupture/Land Subsidence Hazards in
Nevada (Nevada Earthquake Safety Council, 1998).

(e) Fault Setback Requirements to Reduce Fault Rupture Hazards in Salt Lake County
(Batatian and Nelson, 1999).

(f) Salt Lake County Geologic Hazards Ordinance (2002).

(g) Draper City geologic hazard ordinance (2003).

(h) Guidelines for evaluating surface-fault-rupture hazards in Utah: Christenson and
others (2003).

1.2 Properties Requiring a Fault Investigation

A fault study is required, prior to approval of any land use, for properties situated within
Surface Fault Rupture Study Areas, as shown on the Surface Fault Rupture Study Area map
(Plate A-1). This map identifies known active faults in the City, and defines special study
areas where site-specific geologic investigations are required. Development of any parcel
within a Surface Fault Rupture Study Areas requires submittal and review of a site- specific
fault study prior to receiving a land use or building permit from the City. It is the
responsibility of the applicant to retain a qualified engineering geologist to perform the
fault study (see Draper City Geologic Hazards Ordinance 9-19).

In addition, a fault investigation may be required if on site or nearby fault-related features
not shown on the Surface Fault Rupture Study Area map are identified during the course of
other geologic or geotechnical studies performed on or near the site or during
construction.
2.0 MINIMUM STANDARDS FOR FAULT STUDIES

Following are the minimum standards for a comprehensive fault investigation. Fault
investigations may be reported in conjunction with other geological and geotechnical
investigations, or may be submitted separately. See Draper City Geologic Hazards
Ordinance (9-19) for supplemental requirements.

2.1 Scoping Meeting

The developer's consultant must schedule a scoping meeting with the City to evaluate the
fault investigation approach. At this meeting, the consultant should present a site plan that
includes: proposed building locations (if known); expected fault location(s) and orientation;
and the proposed trench locations, orientation, length, and depth (see section 2.3, Fault
Investigation Method). The investigative approach should allow for flexibility due to
unexpected site conditions; field findings may require modifications to the work plan.

2.2 Fault Investigation Method

Inherent in fault study methods is the assumption that future faulting will recur along pre-
existing faults and in a manner consistent with past displacement. The focus of fault
investigations is therefore to accurately locate existing faults. If faults are documented, the
investigation shall also 1) evaluate the age of movement along the fault trace(s), and 2)
estimate amounts of past displacement, which is required in order to derive fault setbacks.

2.2.1 Previous Studies and Aerial Photograph Review

A fault investigation shall include review of available literature pertinent to the site and
vicinity, including previous published and unpublished geologic/soils reports, and
interpretation of available stereo-paired aerial photographs. The photographs reviewed
should include more than one set and should include pre-urbanization aerial photographs,
if available. Efforts must be made to accurately plot the locations of mapped or inferred
fault traces on the property as shown by previous studies in the area.

2.2.2 Exploration Methods

Subsurface exploration consisting of trenching is required. The engineering geologist shall
clean and document ("log") trench exposures as described in section 2.3.5. Existing faults
may also be identified and mapped in the field by direct observation of young, fault-related
geomorphic features, and by examination of aerial photographs. When trenching is not
feasible (i.e., the presence of shallow ground water, excessive thickness of fill, etc.),
supplemental methods such as closely spaced Cone Penetration Test (CPT) soundings may
be employed. Such supplemental methods must be discussed with the City prior to
implementation and should be clearly described in the report.

In lieu of conventional trenching or the CPT method, an alternative subsurface exploration
program may be acceptable, depending upon site conditions. Such a program may consist
of a sufficient number of closely spaced downhole-logged bucket-auger borings,
geophysical exploration techniques, or a combination of techniques.

When an alternative exploration program is proposed, a written description of the
proposed exploration program along with an exploration plan should be submitted to the
City for review, prior to the exploration. The plan must include, at a minimum, a map of
suitable scale showing the site limits, surface geologic conditions within several thousand
feet of the site boundary, the location and type of the proposed alternative subsurface
exploration, and the anticipated earth materials present at depth on the site.

The actual subsurface exploration program to be used on any specific parcel will be
determined on an individual basis, considering the current state of technical knowledge
about the fault zone and information gained from previous exploration on adjacent or
nearby parcels. At all times, consideration must be given to safety, and trenching should
comply with all applicable safety regulations.

2.2.3 Trench Siting

Exploratory trenches must be oriented approximately perpendicular to the anticipated
trend of known fault traces. The trenches shall provide the minimum footage of trenching
necessary to explore the portion of the property situated in the surface- fault-rupture
special study area, such that the potential for surface fault rupture may be adequately
assessed. When trenching to determine if faults might affect a proposed building site, the
trench should extend beyond the building footprint at least the minimum setback distance
for the building type (see Table A-1).

Test pits or potholes alone are neither adequate nor acceptable. In some instances more
than one trench may be required to cover the entire building area, particularly if the
proposed development involves more than one building. Where feasible, trenches shall be
located outside the proposed building footprint, as the trench is generally backfilled
without compaction, which could lead to differential settlement beneath the footings.
Supplemental trenching may be required in order to: 1) further refine fault locations (or the
absence thereof); 2) accurately define building restriction areas, and/or; 3) provide
additional exposures for evaluating the age of movement along fault traces.

2.2.4 Location Determination

All trenches and fault locations must be surveyed by a registered professional land
surveyor. Fault locations should be surveyed with an accuracy of about 0.1 foot or better,
so that structural setbacks can be developed.

2.2.5 Depth of Excavation

The depth of the trenches will ultimately depend on the trench location, occurrence of
ground water, stability of subsurface deposits, and the geologic age of the subsurface
geologic units. As a minimum, however, trenches shall extend substantially below the A
and B soil horizons and well into distinctly bedded Pleistocene-age materials, if possible.
Where possible, the trenches should extend below Holocene deposits and should expose
contacts between Holocene materials and the underlying older materials.

Appropriate safety measures pertaining to trench safety for ingress, egress, and working in
or in the vicinity of the trench must be implemented and maintained. It is the responsibility
of the person in the field directing trench excavation to ensure that fault trenches are
excavated in compliance with current Occupational Safety and Health Administration
excavation safety regulations.

Trench backfilling methods and procedures should be documented in order to establish
whether additional corrective excavation, backfilling, and compaction should be performed
at the time of site grading.

In cases where Holocene (i.e., active) faults may be present, but pre-Holocene deposits are
below the practical limit of excavation, the trenches must extend at least through
sediments that are clearly older than several fault recurrence intervals. The practical
limitations of the trenching must be acknowledged in the report and recommendations
must reflect resulting uncertainties.

2.2.6 Documenting Trench Exposures

Trench walls shall be cleaned of debris and backhoe smear prior to documentation. Trench
logs shall be carefully drawn in the field at a minimum scale of 1-inch equals 5-feet (1:60)
following standard and accepted fault trench investigation practices. Vertical and horizontal
control must be used and shown on trench logs. Trench logs must document all significant
geologic information from the trench and should graphically represent the geologic units
observed; see section 2.6.3(E). The strike, dip, and net vertical displacement (or minimum
displacement) of faults must be noted.

2.2.7 Age Dating

The engineering geologist shall interpret the ages of geologic units exposed in the trench.
When necessary, radiocarbon or other age determinations methods shall be used. If
evidence of faulting is documented, efforts shall be made to date the time of latest
movement (to determine whether recent (Holocene) displacement has occurred) using
appropriate geologic and/or soil stratigraphic dating techniques. When necessary, obtain
radiocarbon or other age determinations. If soil stratigraphic dating techniques are used, a
geologist experienced in using the techniques and soil- development rates in the area
should perform them.

Many of the surficial deposits within Salt Lake Valley were deposited during the last pluvial
lake cycle, referred to as the Bonneville lake cycle. Although late-stage Bonneville lake cycle
sediments do not correspond to the Pleistocene-Holocene boundary (i.e., Bonneville lake
cycle deposits are older than 10,000 years old), for purposes of evaluating fault activity,
these deposits provide a useful regional datum (particularly so when the entire Holocene
sequence of sediments is not present).

For practical purposes, and due to documented Holocene displacement along the Salt Lake
segment of the Wasatch fault, any fault which displaces late-stage Bonneville Lake Cycle
deposits should be considered active unless the Bonneville deposits are overlain by clearly
unfaulted early Holocene-age deposits. Conversely, the presence of demonstrably
unbroken, undeformed, and stratigraphically continuous Bonneville sediments constitutes
reasonable geologic evidence for the absence of active faulting.

2.3 Field Review

A field review by the City is required during exploratory trenching. The applicant must
provide a minimum of 48-hours notice to schedule the field review with the City. The
trenches should be open, safe, cleaned, and a preliminary log completed at the time of the
review. The field review allows the City to evaluate the subsurface data (i.e., age and type of
sediments; presence/absence of faulting, etc.) with the consultant. Discussions about
questionable features or an appropriate setback distance are encouraged, but the City will
not help log the trench, explain the stratigraphy, or give verbal approval of the proposed
development during the field review.

2.4 Recommendations for Fault Setbacks

To address wide discrepancies in fault setback recommendations, the City has adopted the
fault setback calculation methodology for normal faults of Batatian and Nelson (1999) and
Christenson and others (2003). The consultant should use this method to establish the
recommended fault setback for critical facilities and structures designed for human
occupancy. If another fault setback method is used, the consultant must provide
justification in the report for the method used. Faults and fault setbacks must be clearly
identified on site plans and maps.

Minimum setbacks are based on the type and occupancy of the proposed structures (see
Table A-1). A setback should be calculated using the formulas presented below, and then
compared to the minimum setback established in Table A-1. The greater of the two shall be
used as the setback. Minimum setbacks apply to both the hanging wall and footwall blocks.

Top of slope and/or toe of slope setbacks required by the local Building Code must also be
considered; again, the greater setback must be used.

Downthrown Fault Block (Hanging Wall)

The fault setback for the downthrown block will be calculated using the following formula:
S = U (2D + F/tan) where:
 S   = Setback within which structures for human occupancy are not permitted;
 U = Criticality Factor, based on the proposed occupancy of the structure (see Table A-
     1)
 D = Expected fault displacement per event (assumed to be equal to the net vertical
     displacement measured for each past event)
 F   = Maximum depth of footing or subgrade portion of the building
     = Dip of the fault (degrees)




Upthrown Fault Block (Footwall)

The dip of the fault and depth of the subgrade portion of the structure are irrelevant in
calculating the setback on the upthrown fault block. Therefore, the setback for the
upthrown side of the fault will be calculated as:

S = U x 2D

The setback is measured from the portion of the building closest to the fault, whether
subgrade or above grade. Minimum setbacks apply as discussed above.

2.5 Small Displacement Faults

Small-displacement faults are not categorically exempt from setback requirements. Some
faults having less than 4 inches (100 mm) of displacement ("small displacement faults")
may be exempt from setback requirements.

Specific structural risk-reduction options such as foundation reinforcement may be
acceptable for some small-displacement faults in lieu of setbacks. Structural options must
minimize structural damage.

Fault studies must still identify faults and fault displacements (both net vertical
displacements and horizontal extension across the fault or fault zone), and consider the
possibility that future displacement amounts may exceed past amounts. If structural risk-
reduction measures are proposed for small displacement faults, the following criteria must
be addressed:

(a) Reasonable geologic data indicating that future surface displacement along the
particular fault will not exceed 4 inches.

(b) Specific structural mitigation to minimize structural damage.

(c) A structural engineer must provide appropriate designs and the City shall review the
designs.

2.6 Required Outline for Surface Fault Rupture Hazard Studies
The information described herein may be presented as a separate surface-fault-rupture-
potential report or it may be incorporated within other geology or engineering reports that
may be required for the property.

The report shall contain a conclusion regarding the potential risk of surface fault rupture
on the subject property and a statement addressing the suitability of the proposed
development from a surface-fault-rupture-hazard perspective. If exploration determines
that there is a potential for surface rupture due to faulting, or if gradational contacts or
other uncertainties associated with the exploration methods preclude the determination of
absence of small fault offsets, the report should provide estimates of the amplitude of fault
offsets that might affect habitable structures.

Surface-fault-rupture-hazard reports submitted to the City are expected to follow the
outline and address the subjects presented below. However, variations in site conditions
may require that additional items be addressed, or permit some of the subjects to be
omitted (except as noted).

2.6.1. Report

(a) Purpose and scope of work: The report shall contain a clear and concise statement of
the purpose of the investigation and the scope of work performed for the investigation.

(b) Geologic and tectonic setting: The report shall contain a clear and concise statement of
the general geologic and tectonic setting of the site vicinity. The section should include a
discussion of active faults in the area, paleoseismicity of the relevant fault system(s), and
should reference relevant published and unpublished geologic literature.

(c) Site description and conditions: The report shall include information on geologic units,
graded and filled areas, vegetation, existing structures, and other factors that may affect
site development, choice of investigative methods, and the interpretation of data.

(d) Methods of investigation:

(1) Review of published and unpublished maps, literature and records concerning geologic
units, faults, surface and ground water, and other factors.

(2) Stereoscopic interpretation of aerial photographs to detect fault-related topography,
vegetation or soil contrasts, and other lineaments of possible fault origin. Reference the
photograph source, date, flightline numbers, and scale. Salt Lake County has an excellent
collection of stereoscopic aerial photographs dating back to 1937 (including 1937, 1940,
1958, 1964, and 1985).

(3) Observations of surface features, both on-site and off site, including mapping of
geologic and soil units; geomorphic features such as scarps, springs, and seeps (aligned or
not); faceted spurs, offset ridges or drainages; and geologic structures. Locations and
relative ages of other possible earthquake-induced features such as sand blows, lateral
spreads, liquefaction, and ground settlement should be mapped and described. Slope
failures, although they may not be conclusively tied to earthquake causes, should also be
noted.

(4) Subsurface investigations: The report shall include a description of the program of
subsurface exploration, including trench logs, purpose of trench locations, and a summary
of trenching or other detailed, direct observation of continuously exposed geologic units,
soils, and geologic structures. All trench logs shall be at a scale of at least 1-inch equals five-
feet.

The report must describe the criteria used to evaluate the ages of the deposits
encountered in the trench, and clearly evaluate the presence or absence of active
(Holocene) faulting.

(e) Conclusions: Conclusions must be supported by adequate data and shall contain, at a
minimum:

(1) Summary of data upon which conclusions are based.

(2) Location of active faults, including orientation and geometry of faults, amount of net
slip along faults, anticipated future offset, and delineation of setback areas.

(3) Degree of confidence in and limitations of data and conclusions.

(f) Recommendations: Recommendations must be supported by adequate geologic data
and appropriate reasoning behind each statement. Minimum recommendations shall
include:

(1) Recommended setback distances per section 2.5. Supporting calculations must be
included. Faults and setbacks must be shown on site maps and final recorded plat maps.

(2) Other recommended building restrictions or use limitations (i.e., placement of
detached garages, swimming pools, or other non-habitable structures).

(3) Need for additional or future studies to confirm buildings are not sited across active
faults, such as inspection of building footing or foundation excavations by the consultant.

2.6.2. Report References

Reports must include citations of literature and records used in the study, referenced aerial
photographs or images interpreted (air-photo source, date and flight number, scale), and
any other sources of data and information, including well logs, personal communications,
etc.

2.6.3. Illustrations:

At a minimum, reports must include the following illustrations:

(a) Location Map: A site location map depicting topographic and geographic features and
other pertinent data. Generally a 1:24,000-scale USGS topographic base map will suffice.
(b) Geologic Map: A regional-scale map (1:24,000 to 1:50,000 scale) is generally adequate.
Depending on site complexity, a site-scale geologic map (1 inch = 200 ft or more detailed)
may also be necessary. The map should show Quaternary and bedrock geologic units,
faults, seeps or springs, soil or bedrock slumps, and other geologic and soil features
existing on and adjacent to the project site. Geologic cross-sections may be included as
needed to illustrate 3-dimensional relationships.

(c) Site Plan: A detailed site plan is required. The site plan should be at a scale of at least 1
inch = 200 feet (or more detailed) and should clearly show site boundaries, proposed
building footprints, existing structures, streets, slopes, drainages, exploratory trenches,
boreholes, test pits, geophysical traverses, and any other data pertinent data.

(d) Site Specific Fault Map: If faulting is documented at a parcel, the report shall include a
site-specific fault map. The fault map should be at a scale of at least 1 inch = 200 feet and
should clearly show the surveyed locations of trenches (and any other exploratory
techniques), surveyed location(s) of faults documented in the trenches, inferred location of
the faults between trenches, recommended fault setback distance on each side of the
faults, topographic contours, and proposed building locations, if known.

(e) Exploratory Trench Logs: Trench logs are required for each trench excavated as part of
the study. Trench logs shall accurately depict all observed geologic features and conditions.
Trench logs shall not be generalized or diagrammatic. The minimum scale is 1 inch = 5 feet
(1:60) with no vertical exaggeration. Trench logs must accurately reflect the features
observed in the trench (see section 2.3.6).

  Trench logs shall include: trench orientation and indication of which trench wall was
logged; trench top and bottom; stratigraphic contacts; stratigraphic unit descriptions
including lithology, USCS soil classification, genesis (geologic origin), age, and contact
descriptions; soil (pedogenic) horizons; marker beds; and deformation or offset of
sediments, faults, and fissures. Other features of tectonic significance such as buried scarp
free-faces, colluvial wedges, in-filled soil cracks, drag folds, rotated clasts, lineations, and
liquefaction features including dikes, sand blows, etc. should also be shown.
Interpretations of the age and origin of the deposits and any faulting or deformation must
be included, based on depositional sequence. Fault orientation and geometry (strike and
dip), and amount of net displacement must be measured and noted.

(f) Exploratory boreholes and CPT soundings: Should boreholes or CPT soundings be
utilized as part of the investigation, reports shall include the logs of the borings/soundings.
Borehole logs must include lithology descriptions, interpretations of geologic origin, USCS
soil classification or other standardized engineering soil classification (include an
explanation of the classification scheme), sample intervals, penetrative resistance values,
static ground-water depths and dates measured, total depth of borehole, and identity of
the person logging the borehole. Electronic copies of CPT data files should be provided to
the City's reviewer, upon request.
(g) Geophysical data: All geophysical data, showing stratigraphic interpretations and fault
locations, must be included in the report, along with correlations to trench or borehole logs
to confirm interpretations.

(h) Photographs: Photographs of scarps, trench walls, or other features that enhance
understanding of site conditions and fault-related conditions are not required but should
be included when deemed appropriate. Composited, rectified digital photographs of trench
walls may be used as background for trench logs, but features as outlined in section F
above must still be delineated.

 REFERENCES

Batatian, L.D., and Nelson, C.V., 1999, Fault setback requirements to reduce fault rupture
hazards in Salt Lake County: AEG Abstracts with Programs, 42nd Annual Meeting, Salt Lake
City, p. 59.

Biek, R.F., 2005, Geologic map of the Lehi quadrangle and part of the Timpanogos Cave
quadrangle, Salt Lake and Utah Counties, Utah: Utah Geological Survey Map 210, scale
1:24,000.

Black, B.D., Hecker, S., Hylland, M.D., Christenson, G.E., and McDonald, G.N., 2003,
Quaternary fault and fold database and map of Utah: Utah Geological Survey Map 193DM.

Black, B.D., Lund, W.R., Schwartz, D.P., Gill, H.E., and Mayes, B.H., 1996, Paleoseismic
investigation on the Salt Lake City segment of the Wasatch fault zone at the South Fork Dry
Creek and Dry Gulch Sites, Salt Lake County, Utah: Utah Geological Survey Special Study 92,
22 p.

Bonilla, M.G., and Lienkaemper, J.J., 1991, Factors affecting the recognition of faults
exposed in exploratory trenches: U.S. Geological Survey Bulletin 1947.

Bonilla, M.G., 1970, Surface faulting and related effects, in Wiegel, R.L., editor, Earthquake
Engineering: Englewood Cliffs, N.J., Prentice-Hall, Inc., p. 47-74. (Contains an extensive
bibliography on surface faulting, fault patterns and types, width of fault zones, and creep).

Bonilla, M.G., 1982, Evaluation of potential surface faulting and other tectonic deformation:
U.S. Geological Survey Open-File Report 82-732, 58 p.

California Department of Conservation, Division of Mines and Geology, 1986a (revised),
Guidelines to geologic and seismic reports: DMG Note 42, 2 p.

California Department of Conservation, Division of Mines and Geology, 1986b (revised),
Guidelines for preparing engineering geologic reports: DMG Note 44, 2 p.

Chase, G.W., and Chapman, R.H., 1976, Black-box geology - uses and misuses of geophysics
in engineering geology: California Geology, v. 29, p. 8-12.
Christenson, G.E., Batatian, L.D., and Nelson, C.V., 2003, Guidelines for evaluating surface-
fault-rupture hazards in Utah: Utah Geological Survey, Miscellaneous Publication 03-6, 14 p.

Christenson, G.E., 1993, The Wasatch Front County Hazards Geologist Program, in Gori, P.L,
editor, Applications of research from the U.S. Geological Survey Program, Assessment of
Regional Earthquake Hazards and Risk Along the Wasatch Front, Utah; U. S. Geological
Survey Professional Paper 1519, p. 114-120.

Christenson, G.E., and Purcell, C.R., 1985, Correlation and age of Quaternary alluvial-fan
sequences, Basin and Range Province, southwestern United States, in Soils and Quaternary
Geology of the Southwestern United States, Weide, D.L., editor: Geological Society of
America Special Paper 203, p. 1-21.

Cluff, L.S., Brogan, G.E., and Glass, E.E., 1970, Wasatch fault, northern portion, earthquake
fault investigation and evaluation, a guide to land use planning: Oakland, California,
Woodward-Clyde and Associates, unpublished report for the Utah Geological and Mineral
Survey, variously paginated.

Crittenden, M.D., Jr., 1965, Geology of the Draper quadrangle, Utah: U.S. Geological Survey
Map GQ 377, scale 1:24000.

Davis, F.D., 1983, Geologic map of the central Wasatch Front, Utah: Utah Geological and
Mineral Survey Map 54A - Wasatch Front Series, scale 1:100,000.

Draper City, 2003, Article 4 - Special purpose and overlay zones, chapter 9-19, Geologic
Hazards Ordinance, adopted December 30, 2003 - Ord. 547, effective January 13, 2004.

Draper City, 2003, Appendix A, Minimum standards for surface fault rupture hazard
studies: July 2003, Draper City Geologic Hazards Ordinance, chapter 9-19.

Gilbert, G.K., 1875, Report upon the geology of portions of Nevada, Utah, California, and
Arizona, Examined in the years 1871 and 1872, in Wheeler, G.M., editor, Report upon
geographical and geological exploration and surveys west of the 100th meridian, vol 3:
Geology, published by the Washington D.C., government printing office, p. 17-187.

Gilbert, G.K., 1890, Lake Bonneville: U.S. Geological Survey Monograph 1, 438 p.

Hart, E.W., 1992 (revised), Fault-rupture hazard zones in California: California Department
of Conservation, Division of Mines and Geology, Special Publication 42, 32 p. (Revised
periodically; information on state law and zoning program for regulating development near
hazardous faults.

Hart, E.W., and Williams, J.W., 1978, Geologic review process: California Geology, v. 31, no
10, p. 235-236.

Hatheway, A. W., and Leighton, F.B., 1979, Trenching as an exploratory tool, in Hatheway, A.
W., and McClure, C.R., Jr., editors, Geology in the siting of nuclear power plants: Geologic
Society of America, Reviews in Engineering Geology, v. IV, p. 169-195.
Joint Committee on Seismic Safety, California Legislature, 1974, Meeting the earthquake
challenge: California Division of Mines and Geology, Special Publication 45, 223 p.

Hecker, S., 1993, Quaternary tectonics of Utah with emphasis on earthquake-hazard
characterization: Utah Geological Survey Bulletin 127, 157 p.

Lund, W.R., 1990, editor, Engineering geology of the Salt Lake City metropolitan area, Utah:
Utah Geological Survey Bulletin 126, 66 p.

Machette, M.N., 1989, Preliminary surficial geologic map of the Wasatch fault zone, eastern
part of Utah valley, Utah County and parts of Salt Lake and Juab Counties, Utah: U.S.
Geological Survey Miscellaneous Field Studies Map MF-2109, scale 1:50,000.

Machette, M.N., 1992, Surficial geologic map of the Wasatch fault zone, eastern part of
Utah valley, Utah County and parts of Salt Lake and Juab Counties, Utah: U.S. Geological
Survey Miscellaneous Investigation Series Map I-2095, scale 1:50,000.

Machette, M.N., Personius, S.F., Nelson, A.R., Schwartz, D.P., and Lund, W.R., 1991, The
Wasatch fault zone, Utah - segmentation and history of Holocene earthquakes: Journal of
Structural Geology, v. 13, no. 2, p. 137-149.

Machette, M.N., Personius, S.F., and Nelson, A.R., 1992, Paleoseismology of the Wasatch
fault zone: a summary of recent investigations, interpretations, and conclusions, in Gori,
P.L. and Hays, W.W., eds., Assessment of regional earthquake hazards and risk along the
Wasatch Front, Utah: U.S. Geological Survey Professional Paper 1500, p. A1-A71.

Madsen, D.B., 2000, Late quaternary paleoecology in the Bonneville basin: Utah Geological
Survey Bulletin 130, p. 190.

Madsen, D.B., and Currey, D.R., 1979, Late Quaternary glacial and vegetation changes, Little
Cottonwood Canyon area, Wasatch Mountains, Utah: Quaternary Research, v. 12, p. 254-
270.

McCalpin, James P., 2002, New age control from the Wasatch fault megatrench of 1999:
Abstracts with Programs, Geological Society of America, Rocky Mountain section.

McCalpin, James P., 1996, editor, Paleoseismology: Academic Press, 588 p.

McCalpin, James P., 1987, Recommended setbacks from active normal faults, in McCalpin,
James, editor, Proceedings of the 23rd Annual Symposium on Engineering Geology and
Soils Engineering: Logan, Utah State University, April 6-8, 1987, p. 35-56.

Miller, R.D., 1980, Surficial geologic map along part of the Wasatch Front, Salt Lake valley,
Utah: U.S. Geological Survey Miscellaneous Field Studies Map MF-1198, scale, 1:100,000.

National Research Council, 1986, Studies in geophysics-active tectonics: National Academy
Press, Washington, D.C., 266 p. (contains several articles evaluating active faulting).
Nevada Earthquake Safety Council, 1998, Guidelines for Evaluating Potential Surface Fault
Rupture/Land Subsidence Hazards in Nevada; Available online at
http://www.nbmg.unr.edu/nesc/guidelines.html

Nelson, C.V., 1987, Surface fault rupture and liquefaction hazard areas, map compiled for
public information and planning: Salt Lake County Planning Division, Salt Lake City, Utah.

Noller, J.S., Sowers, J.M., and Lettis, W.R., editors, Quaternary geochronology, methods and
applications: Washington D.C., American Geophysical Union AGU Reference Shelf 4, 582 p.

Occupational Safety and Health Administration, 1989, Federal Register, Tuesday October
31, 1989. 29 CFR Part 1926. For updates: www.osha-
slc.gov/SLTC/constructiontrenching/index.html.

Oviatt, C.G., and Thompson, R.S., 2002, Recent developments in the study of Lake
Bonneville since 1980, in Gwynn, J.W., editor, Great Salt Lake 2000 - An Overview of Change:
Utah Geological Survey Miscellaneous Publication XX, p. XX.

Oviatt, C.G., Currey, D.R., and Sack, D., 1992, Radiocarbon chronology of Lake Bonneville,
Eastern Great Basin, U.S.A.: Paleogeography, Paleoclimotology, and Paleoecology, v. 99, p.
225-241.

Personius. S.F., and Scott. W.E., 1992. Surficial geologic map of the Salt Lake City segment
and parts of adjacent segments of the Wasatch fault zone, Davis, Salt Lake, and Utah
Counties, Utah: U.S. Geological Survey Map I-2106.

Salt Lake County, 2002a, Geologic hazards ordinance, chapter 19.75 of the Salt Lake County
zoning code of ordinances, adopted July 2002: Salt Lake County Planning and Development
Services Division, 2001 South State Street, Suite N3700, Salt Lake City, Utah, 84190-4200,
11p.

Salt Lake County, 2002b, Minimum standards for surface fault rupture hazard studies,
Appendix A, Geologic hazards ordinance, chapter 19.75 of the Salt Lake County zoning code
of ordinances, adopted July 2002: Salt Lake County Planning and Development Services
Division, 2001 South State Street, Suite N3700, Salt Lake City, Utah, 84190-4200, 9p.

Salt Lake County, 2001, Liquefaction: a guide to land use planning, Geologic Hazards
Ordinance chapter 19.75 Appendix B: Salt Lake County Planning and Development Services
Division. 6 p.

Salt Lake County, 1995, Surface rupture and liquefaction potential special study areas map,
Salt Lake County, Utah, adopted March 1989, revised July 1995: Salt Lake County Public
Works, Planning Division, 2001 South State Street, Suite N3700, Salt Lake City, Utah, 84190-
4200, scale: 1:43,547.
Schwartz, D.P., and Coppersmith, K.J., 1984, Fault behavior and characteristic earthquakes:
examples from the Wasatch and San Andreas fault zones: Journal of Geophysical Research,
v. 89, no. B-7, July 10, 1984, p. 5681 - 5698.

Scott, W.E., and Shroba, R.R., 1985, Surficial geologic map of an area along the Wasatch
fault zone in the Salt Lake Valley, Utah: U.S. Geol. Survey Open-File Report 85-448, 18 p.

Scott, W.E., McCoy, W.D., Shroba, R.R., and Rubin, M., 1983, Reinterpretation of the exposed
record of the last two cycles of Lake Bonneville, Western United States: Quaternary
research, v. 20, p. 261-285.

Sherard, J.L., Cluff, L.S., and Allen, C.R., 1974, Potentially active faults in dam foundations:
Geotechnique, Institute of Civil Engineers, London, v. 24, no. 3, p. 367-428.

Simon, D.B., and Shlemon, R.J., 1999, The Holocene "Downtown Fault" in Salt Lake City,
Utah, 1999: Association of Engineering Geologists, 1999 Annual Meeting, Abstract Volume,
Salt Lake City, Utah, p. 85.

Simon, D.B., Bartlett, S.J., and Shlemon, R.J., 1999, Holocene ground failure in downtown
Salt Lake City, Utah: Geological Society of America, Cordilleran section, Abstracts with
Program, v. 31, no. 6, p. A-95.

Slemmons, D.B., 1977, State-of-the-art for assessing earthquake hazards in the United
States: Report 6, faults and earthquake magnitude: U.S. Army Engineer Waterways
Experiment Station Miscellaneous Paper S-73-1, 129 p., 37 p. appendix (Summarizes fault
evaluation techniques; extensive bibliography).

Slemmons, D.B., and dePolo, C.M., 1992, Evaluation of active faulting and associated
hazards: in Studies in Geophysics-Active Tectonics: National Research Council, p. 45-62.

Taylor, C.L., and Cluff, L.S., 1973, Fault activity and its significance assessed by exploratory
excavation, in Proceedings of the Conference on Tectonic Problems of the San Andreas
Fault System; Stanford University Publication, Geological Sciences, v. XIII, September 1973,
p. 239-247.

Wallace, R.E., 1977, Profiles and ages of young fault scarps, north-central Nevada:
Geological Society of America Bulletin, v. 88, p. 1267-1281.

Youd, T.L., 1980. Ground failure displacement and earthquake damage to buildings:
American Society of Civil Engineers Conference on Civil Engineering and Nuclear Power,
2nd, Knoxville, Tennessee, v. 2, p. 7-6-2 to 7-6-26.

TABLE A-1
SETBACK RECOMMENDATIONS AND CRITICALITY FACTORS (U) FOR IBC OCCUPANCY
CLASSES
(International Code Council, 2003)
 Class Occupancy Group                                  Criticality U    Minimum
 (IBC)                                                                   Setback
 Class Occupancy Group                                  Criticality U    Minimum
 (IBC)                                                                   Setback
 A       Assembly                                       2          2.0 25 feet
 B       Business                                       2          2.0 20 feet
 E       Educational                                    1          3.0 50 feet
 F       Factory/Industrial                             2          2.0 20 feet
 H       High hazard                                    1          3.0 50 feet
 I       Institutional                                  1          3.0 50 feet
 M       Mercantile                                     2          2.0 20 feet
 R       Residential (R-1, R-2, R-4)                    2          2.0 20 feet
 R-3     Residential (R-3, includes single family       3          1.5 15 feet
         homes)
 S       Storage                                        -          1     0
 U       Utility and misc.                              -          1     0
         Table A-2                                      1          3.0 50 feet




TABLE A-2
ADDITIONAL STRUCTURES REQUIRING GEOLOGIC INVESTIGATION

Buildings and other structures that represent a substantial hazard to human life in the
event of failure, but not limited to:

1. Buildings and other structures where more than 300 people congregate in one area.

2. Buildings and other structures with elementary school, secondary school or day care
facilities with occupancy greater than 250.

3. Buildings and other structures with occupancy greater than 500 for colleges or adult
education facilities.

4. Health care facilities with occupancy greater than 50 or more resident patients but not
having surgery or emergency treatment facilities.

5. Jails and detention facilities.

6. Any other occupancy with occupancy greater than 1000.
7. Power generating stations, water treatment or storage for potable water, waste water
treatment facilities and other public utility facilities.

8. Buildings and other structures containing sufficient quantities of toxic or explosive
substances to be dangerous to the public if released.

Buildings and other structures designed as essential facilities including, but not limited to:

1. Hospitals and other care facilities having surgery or emergency treatment facilities.

2. Fire, rescue and police stations and emergency vehicle garages and fueling facilities.

3. Designated emergency shelters.

4. Designated emergency preparedness, communications, and operation centers and
other facilities required for emergency response.

5. Power-generating stations and other public utility facilities required as emergency
backup facilities for facilities and structures included in this table.

6. Structures containing highly toxic materials as defined by the most recently adopted
version of the IBC where the quantity of the material exceeds the maximum allowable
quantities defined by the most recently adopted version of the IBC.

7. Aviation control towers, air traffic centers and emergency aircraft hangars.

8. Buildings and other structures having critical national defense functions.

9. Water treatment and storage facilities required to maintain water pressure for fire
suppression.



9-19-161-3: APPENDIX C, MINIMUM STANDARDS FOR SLOPE STABILITY ANALYSIS:

1.0 INTRODUCTION

The procedures outlined herein are intended to provide consultants with a general outline
for performing quantitative slope stability analyses and to clarify the expectations of
Draper City. These standards constitute the minimum level of effort required in conducting
quantitative slope stability analyses in Draper City. Considering the complexity inherent in
performing slope stability analyses, additional effort beyond the minimum standards
presented herein may be required at some sites to adequately address slope stability. The
information presented herein does not relieve consultants of their duty to perform
additional geologic or engineering analyses they believe are necessary to assess the
stability of slopes at a site.

The evaluation of landslides generally requires quantitative slope stability analyses.
Therefore, the standards presented herein are directly applicable to landslide investigation,
and also constitute the minimum level of effort when performing landslide investigations.
This appendix does not address debris flows (see appendix E) or rock falls (see appendix F).

The purposes for establishing minimum standards for slope stability analyses are to:

(a) Protect the health, safety, welfare, and property of the public by minimizing the
potentially adverse effects of unstable slopes and related hazards;

(b) Assist property owners and land developers in conducting reasonable and adequate
studies;

(c) Provide consulting engineering geologists and geotechnincal engineers with a common
basis for preparing proposals, conducting investigations, and mitigation; and,

(d) Provide an objective framework for regulatory review of slope stability reports.

1.1 References and Sources

The minimum standards presented herein were developed, in part, from the following
sources:

(a) Guidelines for Evaluating Landslide Hazards in Utah (Hylland, 1996).

(b) Recommended Procedures for Implementation of DMG Special Publication 117,
Guidelines for Analyzing and Mitigating Landslide Hazards in California (Blake et al., 2002).

(c) CDMG Special Publication 117, Guidelines for Analyzing and Mitigating Landslide
Hazards in California

(d) Salt Lake County Geologic Hazards Ordinance (2002).

(e) Holladay City, Utah Natural Hazards Areas Provision (2006).

(f) Cottonwood Heights, Utah Code of Ordinances (2005).

(g) Centerville City Planning and Zoning Ordinance, section 12-330-2 Hillside Overlay
District (1995).

(h) City of Camarillo, California 2003 Guidelines for the preparation of geotechnical and
geologic studies, prepared by Fugro, dated June 18, 2003.

(i) City of Palmdale, California, Guidelines for preparation of geotechnical reports,
prepared by GeoDynamics, Inc., dated April 2006 (draft copy).

(j) City of Malibu, California, Guidelines for the preparation of engineering geologic and
geotechnical engineering reports and procedure for report submittal, prepared by Bing Yen
and Associates) dated April, 2006.
1.2 Areas Requiring Slope Stability Analyses

Slope stability analyses shall be performed for all sites located within the Slope Stability
Study Area Map (Plate A-3) and for all slopes that may be affected by the proposed
development which meet the following criteria:

(a) Cut and/or fill slopes steeper than about 2 horizontal (h) to 1 vertical (v).

(b) Natural slopes steeper than or equal to 3 horizontal (h) to 1 vertical (v).

(c) Natural and cut slopes with potentially adverse geologic conditions (e.g., bedding,
foliation, or other structural features that are potentially adverse to the stability of the
slope).

(d) Natural and cut slopes which include a geologic hazard such as a landslide, irrespective
of the slope height or slope gradient.

(e) Buttresses and stability fills.

(f) Cut, fill, or natural slopes of water-retention basins or flood-control channels.

(g) In hillside areas (Plate A-3), investigations shall address the potential for surficial
instability, debris/mudflows (see Appendix E), rock falls (see Appendix F), and soil creep on
all slopes that may affect the proposed development or be affected by the proposed
development.

(h) When evaluating site conditions to determine the need for slope stability analyses, off-
property conditions shall be considered (both up-slope to the top(s) of adjacent ascending
slopes and down-slope to and beyond the toe(s) of adjacent descending slopes). Also, the
consultant shall demonstrate that the proposed hillside development will not affect
adjacent sites or limit adjacent property owners' ability to develop their sites.

1.3 Roles of Engineering Geologist and Engineering

The investigation of the static and seismic stability of slopes is an interdisciplinary practice.
To provide greater assurance that the hazards are properly identified, assessed, and
mitigated, involvement of both an engineering geologist and geotechnical engineer is
required. Analyses shall be performed only by or under the direct supervision of licensed
professionals, qualified and competent in their respective area of practice. An engineering
geologist shall provide appropriate input to the geotechnical engineer with respect to the
potential impact of the geology, stratigraphy, and hydrologic conditions on the stability of
the slope. The shear strength and other geotechnical earth material properties shall be
evaluated by the geotechnical engineer. Qualified engineering geologists, geological
engineers and geotechnical engineers may assess and quantitatively evaluate slope
stability. However, the geotechnical engineer shall perform all design stability calculations.
Ground motion parameters for use in seismic stability analysis may be provided by either
the engineering geologist or geotechnical engineer.
1.4 Minimum Qualifications of the Licensed Professional

Slope stability analyses must be performed by qualified engineering geologists and
qualified geotechnical engineers (see sections 9-19-050 and 9-19-060 of the Draper City
Geologic Hazards Ordinance, chapter 9-19).

2.0 GENERAL REQUIREMENTS

Except for the derivation of the input ground motion for pseudostatic and seismic
deformation analyses (see section 12), slope stability analyses and evaluations should be
performed in general accordance with the latest version of Recommended Procedures for
Implementation of DMG Special Publication 117, Guidelines for Analyzing and Mitigating
Landslide Hazards in California (Blake et al., 2002). Procedures for developing input ground
motions to be used in Draper City are described in section 12.1. See Draper City Geologic
Hazard Ordinance, chapter 9-19, for supplemental requirements.

3.0 SUBMITTALS

Submittals for review shall include boring logs; geologic cross sections; trench and test pit
logs; laboratory data (particularly shear strength test results, including individual stress-
deformation plots from direct shear tests); discussions pertaining to how idealized
subsurface conditions and shear strength parameters used for analyses were developed;
analytical results, including computer output files (if requested); and summaries of the
slope stability analyses and conclusions regarding slope stability.

Subsurface geologic and groundwater conditions must be illustrated on geologic cross
sections and must be utilized by the geotechnical engineer for the slope stability analyses.
If on-site sewage or storm water disposal exists or is proposed, the slope stability analyses
shall include the effects of the effluent plume on slope stability.

The results of any slope stability analyses must be submitted with pertinent backup
documentation (i.e., calculations, computer output, etc.). Printouts of input data, output
data (if requested), and graphical plots must be submitted for each computer-aided slope
stability analysis. In addition, input data files, recorded on diskettes, CDs, or other
electronic media may be requested to facilitate the City's review.

4.0 FACTORS OF SAFETY

The minimum acceptable static factor of safety is 1.5 for both gross and surficial slope
stability. The minimum acceptable factor of safety for a calibrated pseudostatic analysis is
1.0 using the method of Stewart and others (2003) (see section 12.2).

5.0 LANDSLIDES

The evaluation of landslides generally requires quantitative slope stability analyses.
Therefore, the standards presented herein are directly applicable to landslide investigation,
and also constitute the minimum level of effort when performing landslide investigations.
Evaluation of landslides shall be performed in the preliminary phase of hillside
developments. Where landslides are present or suspected, sufficient subsurface
exploration will be required to determine the basic geometry and stability of the landslide
mass and the required stabilization measures. The depth of geologic exploration shall
consider the regional geologic structure, the likely failure mode of the suspected failure,
and past geomorphic conditions.

6.0 SITE INVESTIGATION AND GEOLOGIC STUDIES

Adequate evaluation of slope stability for a given site requires thorough and
comprehensive geologic and geotechnical engineering studies. These studies are a crucial
component in the evaluation of slope stability. Geologic mapping and subsurface
exploration are normal parts of field investigation. Samples of earth materials are routinely
obtained during subsurface exploration for geotechnical testing in the laboratory to
determine the shear strength parameters and other pertinent engineering properties.

In general, geologic studies for slope stability consist of the following fundamental phases:

(a) Study and review of published and unpublished geologic information (both regional
and site specific).

(b) Review and interpretation of available stereoscopic and oblique aerial photographs,
DEMs, and LiDAR.

(c) Geologic field mapping, including, but not necessarily limited to, measurement of
bedding, foliation, fracture, and fault attitudes and other parameters.

(d) Documentation and evaluation of subsurface groundwater conditions (including
effects of seasonal and longer-term natural fluctuations as well as landscape irrigation),
surface water, on-site sewage disposal, and/or storm water disposal.

(e) Subsurface exploration.

(f) Analysis of the geologic failure mechanisms that could occur at the site (e.g., mode of
failure and construction of the critical geologic cross sections).

(g) Presentation and analysis of the data, including an evaluation of the potential impact of
geologic conditions on the project.

Geologic/geotechnical reports shall demonstrate that each of these phases has been
adequately performed and that the information obtained has been considered and
logically evaluated. Minimum criteria for the performance of each phase are described and
discussed in Blake and others (2002).

7.0 SUBSURFACE EXPLORATION

The purpose of subsurface exploration is to identify potentially significant geologic
materials and structures at a site and to provide samples for detailed laboratory
characterization of materials from potentially critical zones. Subsurface exploration is
almost always required and may be performed by a number of widely known techniques
such as bucket-auger borings, conventional small-diameter borings, cone penetration
testing (CPT), test pits, trenches, and/or geophysical techniques (see section 4.2 of Blake et
al., 2002). A discussion of the applicability of some subsurface exploration techniques
follows.

7.1 Trenching

Subsurface exploration consisting of trenching has proven, in some cases, to be necessary
when uncertainty exists regarding whether or not a particular landform is a landslide. Care
must be exercised with this exploration method because landslides characteristically
contain relatively large blocks of intact geologic units, which in a trench exposure could give
the false impression that the geologic unit is "in-place." Although limited to a depth of
about 15 feet below existing grades, trenching has also proven to be a useful technique for
verifying margins of landslides, although the geometry of a landslide can generally be
readily determined from evaluation of stereoscopic aerial photographs. Once a landslide is
identified, conventional subsurface exploration drilling techniques will be required (see
section 7.2 and 7.3). Slope stability analyses based solely on data obtained from trenches
will not be accepted.

7.2 Methods for Bedded Formations

Conventional subsurface exploration techniques involving continuous core drilling with an
oriented core barrel, test pits, and deep bucket-auger borings may be used to assess the
subsurface soil and geologic conditions, particularly for geologic units with inclined bedding
that includes weak layers.

Although not commonly utilized in Utah, a 24-inch-diameter bucket-auger-boring with
down-hole logging can provide valuable data (provided the consultant has determined the
drill hole is safe to enter). The evaluation of safety of the proposed subsurface exploration
program will be the responsibility of the consultant.

Particular attention must be paid to the presence or absence of weak layers (e.g., clay,
claystone, silt, shale, or siltstone units) during the exploration. Unless adequately
demonstrated (through comprehensive and detailed subsurface exploration) that weak
(clay, claystone, silt, shale, or siltstone) layers (even as thin as 1/16-inch or less) are not
present, a weak layer shall be assumed to possibly occur anywhere in the stratigraphic
profile (i.e., ubiquitous weak clay beds).

The depth of the subsurface exploration must be sufficient to assess the conditions at or
below the level of the deepest potential failure surface possessing a factor of 1.5 or less. A
preliminary slope stability analysis may need to be performed to assist in the planning of
the subsurface exploration program.
7.3 Other Geologic Units

For alluvium, fill materials, or other soil units that do not contain weak interbeds, other
exploration methods such as small- diameter borings (e.g., rotary wash or hollow-stem-
auger) or cone penetration testing may be suitable.

8.0 SOIL PARAMETERS

Soil properties, including unit weight and shear strength parameters (cohesion and friction
angle), may be based on conventional field and laboratory tests as well as on field
performance. Where appropriate (i.e., for landslide slip surfaces, along bedding planes, for
surficial stability analyses, etc.), laboratory tests for saturated, residual shear strengths
must be performed. Estimation of the shear resistance along bedding (or landslide) planes
normally requires an evaluation of saturated residual along-bedding-strength values of the
weakest interbedded (or slide-plane) material encountered during the subsurface
exploration, or in the absence of sufficient exploration, the weakest material that may be
present, consistent with site geologic conditions. Strength parameters derived solely from
CPT data may not be appropriate for slope-stability analysis in some cases, particularly for
strengths along existing slip surfaces where residual strengths have developed. Additional
guidance on the selection of strength parameters for slope stability analyses is contained in
Blake et al. (2002).

8.1 Residual Shear Strength Parameters

Residual strength parameters may be determined using the direct shear or ring shear
testing apparatus; however ring shear tests are preferred. If performed properly, direct
shear test results may approach ring-shear test results. The soil specimen must be
subjected to a sufficient amount of deformation (e.g., a significant number of shearing
cycles in the direct shear test or a significant amount of rotation in the ring shear test) to
assure that residual strength has been developed. In the direct- shear and ring-shear tests,
stress-deformation curves can be used to determine when a sufficient number of cycles of
shearing have been performed by showing that no further significant drop in shear
strength results with the addition of more cycles or more rotation. The stress-deformation
curves obtained during the shear tests must be submitted with the other laboratory test
results. It shall be recognized that for most clayey soils, the residual shear strength
envelope is curved and passes through the origin (i.e., at zero normal stress there is zero
shear strength). Any "apparent shear strength" increases resulting from a non- horizontal
shear surface (i.e., ramping) or "bulldozing" in residual direct shear tests shall be
discounted in the interpretation of the strength parameters.

8.2 Interpretation

The engineer will need to use considerable judgment in the selection of appropriate shear
test methods and in the interpretation of the results to develop shear strength parameters
commensurate with slope stability conditions to be evaluated. Scatter plots of shear
strength data may need to be presented to allow for assessment of idealized parameters.
The report shall summarize shear strength parameters used for slope stability analyses
and describe the methodology used to interpret test results and estimate those
parameters.

Peak shear strengths may be used to represent across-bedding failure surfaces or
compacted fill, in situations where strength degradations are not expected to occur (see
guidelines in Blake et al., 2002). Where peak strengths cannot be relied upon, fully softened
(or lower) strengths shall be used.

Ultimate shear strength parameters shall be used in static slope stability analyses when
there has not been past deformation. Residual shear strength parameters shall be used in
static slope stability analyses when there has been past deformation.

Averaged strength parameters may be appropriate for some across- bedding conditions, if
sufficient representative samples have been carefully tested. Analyses for along-bedding or
along- existing-landslide slip surfaces shall be based on lower-bound interpretations of
residual shear strength parameters and comparison of those results to correlations, such
as those of Stark and others (2005).

8.3 Default Soil Parameters

In the Traverse Mountain area, failure surfaces for known landslides commonly occur
within the Tertiary volcanics. Those failure surfaces typically are along clay layers formed by
the in situ alteration of tuff deposits. In cases when the failure surface has been sampled
and tested, relatively low residual- shear-strength values have been obtained; these values
are cohesion equal to 0 psf and a friction angles equal to 11 to 12 degrees. Similar values
have also been reported from the Springhill landslide in North Salt Lake that is in a similar
tuffaceous volcanic formation of Tertiary age.

To assist in understanding shear strengths of these materials, the following shear strength
parameters for landslide failure surfaces and along weak layers within the Tertiary
volcanics shall be used; cohesion equal to 0 psf and a friction angle equal to 11 degrees,
unless otherwise demonstrated. If site-specific testing produces lower residual shear
strength than these values, the site-specific test results should be used. If site-specific
testing produces higher values, documentation must be provided to demonstrate that the
weakest materials were retrieved and tested and that the materials retrieved truly
represent the basal landslide slip surface.

9.0 SOIL CREEP

The potential effects of soil creep shall be addressed where any proposed structure is
planned in close proximity to an existing fill slope or natural slope. The potential effects on
the proposed development shall be evaluated and mitigation measures proposed,
including appropriate setback recommendations. Setback recommendations shall consider
the potential affects of creep forces.
All reports in hillside areas shall address the potential for surficial instability,
debris/mudflow (Appendix E), rock falls (Appendix F), and soil creep on all slopes that may
affect the proposed development or be affected by the proposed development. Stability of
slopes along access roads shall be addressed.

10.0 GROSS STATIC STABILITY

Gross stability includes rotational and translational deep-seated failures of slopes or
portions of slopes existing within or outside of but potentially affecting the proposed
development. The following guidelines, in addition to those in the Blake and others (2002)
document, shall be followed when evaluating slope stability:

(a) Stability shall be analyzed along cross sections depicting the most adverse conditions
(e.g., highest slope, most adverse bedding planes, shallowest likely ground water table, and
steepest slope). Often analyses are required for different conditions and for more than one
cross section to demonstrate which condition is most adverse. When evaluating the
stability of an existing landslide, analyses must also address the potential for partial
reactivation. Inclinometers may be used to help determine critical failure surfaces and,
along with high-resolution GPS, the state of activity of existing landslides. The critical failure
surfaces on each cross-section shall be identified, evaluated, and plotted on the large-scale
cross section.

(b) If the long-term, static factor of safety is less than 1.5, mitigation measures will be
required to bring the factor of safety up to the required level or the project may be
redesigned to achieve a minimum factor of safety of 1.5.

(c) The temporary stability of excavations shall be evaluated and mitigation measures shall
be recommended as necessary to obtain a minimum factor of safety of 1.3.

(d) Long-term stability shall be analyzed using the highest known or anticipated
groundwater level based upon a groundwater assessment performed under the
requirements of section 6.0.

(e) Where back-calculation is appropriate, shear strengths utilized for design shall be no
higher than the lowest strength computed using back calculation. If a consultant proposes
to use shear strengths higher than the lowest back- calculated value, justification shall be
required. Assumptions used in back-calculations regarding pre-sliding topography and
groundwater conditions at failure must be discussed and justified.

(f) Reports shall describe how the shear strength testing methods used are appropriate in
modeling field conditions and long-term performance of the subject slope. The utilized
design shear strength values shall be justified with laboratory test data and geologic
descriptions and history, along with past performance history, if known, of similar
materials.
(g) Reports shall include shear strength test plots consisting of normal stress versus shear
resistance (failure envelope). Plots of shear resistance versus displacement shall be
provided for all residual and fully softened (ultimate) shear tests.

(h) The degree of saturation for all test specimens shall be reported. Direct shear tests on
partially saturated samples may grossly overestimate the cohesion that can be mobilized
when the material becomes saturated in the field. This potential shall be considered when
selecting shear strength parameters. If the rate of shear displacement exceeds 0.005
inches per minute, the consultant shall provide data to demonstrate that the rate is
sufficiently slow for drained conditions.

(i) Shear strength values higher than those obtained through site-specific laboratory tests
generally will not be accepted.

(j) If direct shear or triaxial shear testing is not appropriate to model the strength of highly
jointed and fractured rock masses, the design strengths shall be evaluated in a manner
that considers overall rock mass quality and be consistent with rock mechanics practice.

(k) Shear strengths used in slope stability analyses shall be evaluated considering the
natural variability of engineering characteristics inherent in earth materials. Multiple shear
tests on each site material are likely to be required.

(l) Direct shear tests do not always provide realistic strength values (Watry and Lade,
2000). Correlations between liquid limit, percent clay fraction, and strength (fully softened
and residual) with published data (e.g., Stark and McCone, 2002) shall be performed to
verify tested shear strength parameters. Strength values used in analyses that exceed
those obtained by the correlation must be appropriately justified.

(m) Shear strengths for proposed fill slopes shall be evaluated using samples mixed and
remolded to represent anticipated field conditions. Confirming strength testing may be
required during grading.

(n) Where bedding planes are laterally unsupported on slopes, potential failures along the
unsupported bedding planes shall be analyzed. Similarly, stability analyses shall be
performed where bedding planes form a dip-slope or near-dip-slope using composite
potential failure surfaces that consist of potential slip surfaces along bedding planes in the
upper portions of the slope in combination with slip surfaces across bedding planes in the
lower portions of the slope.

(o) The stability analysis shall include the effect of expected maximum moisture
conditions on soil unit weight.

(p) For effective stress analyses, measured groundwater conditions adjusted to consider
likely unfavorable conditions with respect to anticipated future groundwater levels,
seepage, or pore pressure shall be included in the slope stability analyses.
(q) Tension crack development shall be considered in the analyses of potential failure
surfaces. The height and location of the tension crack shall be determined by searching.

(r) Anticipated surcharge loads as well as external boundary pressures from water shall be
included in the slope stability evaluations, as deemed appropriate.

(s) Analytical chart solutions may be used provided they were developed for conditions
similar to those being analyzed. Generally though, computer-aided searching techniques
shall be used, so that the potential failure surface with the lowest factor of safety can be
located. Examples of typical searching techniques are illustrated on figures 9.1a through
9.1f in Blake and others (2002). However, verification of the reasonableness of the
analytical results is the responsibility of the geotechnical engineer and/or engineering
geologist.

(t) The critical potential failure surface used in the analysis may be composed of circles,
wedges, planes, or other shapes considered to yield the minimum factor of safety most
appropriate for the geologic site conditions. The critical potential failure surface having the
lowest factor of safety with respect to shearing resistance must be sought. Both the lowest
factor of safety and the critical failure surface shall be documented.

11.0 SURFICIAL STABILITY OF SLOPES

Surficial slope stability refers to slumping and sliding of near- surface sediments and is
most critical during the snowmelt and rainy season or when excessive landscape water is
applied. The assessment of surficial slope stability shall be based on analysis procedures
for stability of an infinite slope with seepage parallel to the slope surface or an alternate
failure mode that would produce the minimum factor of safety. The minimum acceptable
depth of saturation for surficial stability evaluation shall be four feet.

11.1 Applicability and Procedures

Conclusions shall be substantiated with appropriate data and analyses. Residual shear
strengths comparable to actual field conditions shall be used in completing surficial
stability analyses. Surficial stability analyses shall be performed under rapid draw-down
conditions where appropriate (e.g., for debris and detention basins).

Where 2:1 or steeper slopes have soil conditions that can result in the development of an
infinite slope with parallel seepage, calculations shall be performed to demonstrate that
the slope has a minimum static factor of safety of 1.5, assuming a fully saturated 4-foot
thickness. If conditions will not allow the development of a slope with parallel seepage,
surficial slope stability analyses may not be required (provided the geologic/geotechnical
reviewer concurs).

Surficial slope stability analyses shall be performed for fill, cut, and natural slopes assuming
an infinite slope with seepage parallel to the slope surface or other failure mode that
would yield the minimum factor of safety against failure. A suggested procedure for
evaluating surficial slope stability is presented in Blake et al. (2002).

11.2 Soil Properties

Soil properties used in surficial stability analyses shall be determined as noted in section
8.1. Residual shear strength parameters for surficial slope stability analyses shall be
developed for a stress range that is consistent with the near- surface conditions being
modeled. As indicated in section 8.1, it shall be recognized that for most clayey soils, the
residual shear strength envelope is curved and passes through the origin (i.e., at zero
normal stress there is zero shear strength). For sites with deep slip surfaces, the guidelines
given by Blake and others (2002) should be followed.

11.3 Seepage Conditions

The minimum acceptable vertical depth for which seepage parallel to the slope shall be
applied is four feet for cut or fill slopes. Greater depths may be necessary when analyzing
natural slopes that have significant thicknesses of loose surficial material.

12.0 SEISMIC SLOPE STABILITY

In addition to static slope stability analyses, slopes shall be evaluated for seismic slope
stability as well. Acceptable methods for evaluating seismic slope stability using calibrated
pseudo- static limit-equilibrium procedures and simplified methods (e.g., those based on
Newmark, 1965) to estimate permanent seismic slope movements are summarized in
Blake and others (2002).

Nonlinear, dynamic finite element/finite difference numerical methods also may be used to
evaluate slope movements resulting from seismic events as long as the procedures, input
data, and results are thoroughly documented, and deemed acceptable by the City.

12.1 Ground Motion for Pseudostatic and Seismic Deformation Analyses

The two controlling faults that would most affect Draper City are the Salt Lake City and
Provo segments of the Wasatch fault zone (WFZ). Repeated Holocene movement has been
well documented along both segments (Black and others, 2003). Studies along the Provo
segment of the WFZ indicate a recurrence interval of about 1150 years (Olig, and others,
2006; later revised, Olig, 2007) and the most recent event being about 500 to 650 years ago
(Black and others, 2003; Olig, and others, 2006). Studies along the Salt Lake City segment of
the WFZ indicate a recurrence interval of about 1300 years and the most recent event
being about 1300 years ago (Lund, 2005). Based on the paleoseismic record of the Salt Lake
City segment and assuming a time-dependent model, McCalpin (2002) estimates a
conditional probability (using a log-normal renewal model) of 16.5% in the next 100 years
(8.25% in the next 50 years) for a M>7 surface-faulting earthquake. Therefore, using a time-
dependent rather than Poisson or random model for earthquake recurrence, the likelihood
of a large surface-faulting earthquake on the Salt Lake City segment of the WFZ is relatively
high and therefore the Salt Lake City segment is considered the primary controlling fault
for deterministic analyses.

In regards to design ground accelerations for seismic slope- stability analyses, Draper City
prefers a probabilistic approach to determining the likelihood that different levels of
ground motion will be exceeded at a particular site within a given time period. In order to
more closely represent the seismic characteristics of the WFZ and better capture this
possible high likelihood of a surface-faulting earthquake on the Salt Lake City segment,
design ground motion parameters for seismic slope stability analyses shall be based on the
peak accelerations with a 3.5 percent probability in 50 years (1,400-year return period).
Peak bedrock ground motions can be readily obtained via the internet from the United
States Geological Survey (USGS) National Seismic Hazard Maps, Data and Documentation
web page (USGS, 2002), which is based on Frankel and others (2002). PGAs obtained from
the USGS (2002) web page should be adjusted for effects of soil/rock (site-class) conditions
in accordance with Seed and others (2001). Site specific response analysis may also be
used to develop PGA values as long as the procedures, input data, and results are
thoroughly documented, and deemed acceptable by the City.

12.2 Pseudo-Static Evaluations

Pseudo-static methods for evaluating seismic slope stability are acceptable as long as
minimum factors of safety are satisfied, and due consideration is given in the selection of
the seismic coefficient, kh, reduction in material shear strengths, and the factor of safety
for pseudo-static conditions.

Pseudo-static seismic slope stability analyses can be performed using the "screening
analysis" procedure described in Blake et al. (2002). For that procedure a kh-value is
selected from seismic source characteristics (modal magnitude, modal distance, and firm
rock peak ground acceleration) and an acceptable level of deformation (5 cm) is specified.
For that procedure, a factor of safety of 1.0 or greater is considered acceptable; otherwise,
an analysis of permanent seismic slope deformation shall be performed.

12.3 Permanent Seismic Slope Deformation

For seismic slope stability analyses, estimates of permanent seismic displacement are
preferred and may be performed using the procedures outlined in Blake and others (2002).
It should be noted that Bray and Rathje (1998), referenced in Blake and others (2002), has
been updated and superseded by Bray and Travasarou (2007), which is the City's currently
preferred method. For those analyses, calculated seismic displacements shall be 5 cm or
less, or mitigation measures shall be proposed to limit calculated displacements to 5 cm or
less.

For specific projects, different levels of tolerable displacement may be possible, but site-
specific conditions, which shall include the following, must be considered:
(a) The extent to which the displacements are localized or broadly distributed - broadly
distributed shear deformations would generally be less damaging and more displacement
could be allowed.

(b) The displacement tolerance of the foundation system - stiff, well-reinforced
foundations with lateral continuity of vertical support elements would be more resistant to
damage (and hence could potentially tolerate larger displacements) than typical slabs-on-
grade or foundation systems with individual spread footings.

(c) The potential of the foundation soils to experience strain softening - slopes composed
of soils likely to experience strain softening should be designed for relatively low
displacements if peak strengths are used in the evaluation of ky due to the potential for
progressive failure, which could involve very large displacements following strain softening.

In order to consider a threshold larger than 5 cm, the project consultant shall provide prior,
acceptable justification to the City and obtain the City's approval. Such justification shall
demonstrate, to the satisfaction of the City, that the proposed project will achieve
acceptable performance 1 .

13.0 WATER RETENTION BASINS AND FLOOD CONTROL CHANNELS

For cut, fill, or natural slopes of water-retention basins or flood-control channels, slope
stability analyses shall be performed. In addition to analyzing typical static and seismic
slope stability, those analyses shall consider the effects of rapid drawdown, if such a
condition could develop.

14.0 MITIGATION

When slope stability hazards are determined to exist on a project, measures to mitigate
impacts from those hazards shall be implemented. Some guidance regarding mitigation
measures is provided in Blake et al. (2002). Slope stability mitigation methods include 1)
hazard avoidance, 2) grading to improve slope stability, 3) reinforcement of the slope or
improvement of the soil within the slope, and (4) reinforcement of the structure built on
the slope to tolerate anticipated slope displacements.

Where mitigation measures that are intended to add stabilizing forces to the slope are to
be implemented, consideration may need to be given to strain compatibility. For example,
if a compacted fill buttress is proposed to stabilize laterally unsupported bedding or a
landslide, the amount of deformation needed to mobilize the recommended shear
strength in the buttress shall be considered to confirm that it will not result in adverse
movements of the upslope bedding or landslide deposits. Similarly, if a series of drilled
soldier piers is to be used to support a potentially unstable slope and a residential
structure will be built on the piers, pier deformations resulting from movements needed to
mobilize the soil's shear strength shall be compared to tolerable deflections in the
supported structure.
14.1 Full Mitigation

Full mitigation of slope stability hazards shall be performed for developments in the City.
Remedial measures that produce static factors of safety in excess of 1.5 and acceptable
seismic displacement estimates shall be implemented as needed.

14.2 Partial Mitigation for Seismic Displacement Hazards

On some projects or portions thereof (such as small structural additions, residential "infill
projects", non-habitable structures, and non-structural natural-slope areas), full mitigation
of seismic slope displacements may not be possible, due to physical or economic
constraints. In those cases, partial mitigation, to the extent that it prevents structural
collapse, injury, and loss of life, may be possible if it can be provided consistent with IBC
philosophies, and if it is approved by Draper City. The applicability of partial mitigations to
specific projects will be evaluated on a case-by-case basis.

15.0 Notice of Geologic Hazard and Waiver of Liability

For developments where full mitigation of seismic slope displacements is not implemented,
a Notice of Geologic Hazard shall be recorded with the proposed development describing
the displacement hazard at issue and the partial mitigation employed. The Notice shall
clearly state that the seismic displacement hazard at the site has been reduced by the
partial mitigation, but not totally eliminated.

In addition, the owner shall assume all risks, waive all claims against the City and its
consultants, and indemnify and hold the City and its consultants harmless from any and all
claims arising from the partial mitigation of the seismic displacement hazard.

 APPENDIX C - REFERENCES

Black, B.D., Hecker, Suanne, Hylland, M.D., Christenson, G.E., and McDonald, G.N. (2003),
Quaternary fault and fold database and map of Utah, Utah Geological Survey Map 193DM,
CD.

Blake, T.F., Hollingsworth, R.A. and Stewart, J.P., Editors (2002), Recommended Procedures
for Implementation of DMG Special Publication 117, Guidelines for analyzing and mitigating
landslide hazards in California: organized by the Southern California Earthquake Center,
available for download at:
http://www.scec.org/resources/catalog/hazardmitigation.html#land.

California Division of Mines and Geology (CDMG) (1997), Guidelines for evaluating and
mitigating seismic hazards in California, CDMG Special Publication (SP) 117.

FEMA (1997), NEHRP guidelines for the seismic rehabilitation of buildings: FEMA-
273/October,

Frankel, A.D., Petersen, M.D., Mueller, C.S., Haller, K.M., Wheeler, R.L., Leyendecker, E.V.,
Wesson, R.L., Harmsen, S.C., Cramer, C.H., Perkins, D.M., and Rukstales, K.S. (2002),
Documentation for the 2002 update of the National Seismic Hazard Maps, USGS Open-File
Report 02-420.

IBC (2006), International Building Code, International Code Council, Inc., 658 p

Lund, W.R. (2005), Consensus preferred recurrence-interval and vertical slip-rate estimates-
Review of Utah paleoseismic- trenching data by the Utah Quaternary Fault Parameters
Working Group, Utah Geological Survey Bulletin 134, CD.

McCalpin, J.P. (2002), Post-Bonneville paleoearthquake chronology of the Salt Lake City
segment, Wasatch fault zone, from the 1999 "megatrench" site, Utah Geological Survey
Miscellaneous Publication 02-7, 38 p.

Newmark, N.M. (1965), Effects of earthquakes on dams and embankments, Geotechnique,
v. 25, no. 4.

Olig, S.S. (2007), written communication, August 16, 2007: URS Corp, Oakland, California.

Olig, S.S., McDonald, G., Black, B., DuRoss, C., and Lund, W.R. (2006), A longer and more
complete paleoseismic record for the Provo segment of the Wasatch fault zone, Utah,
(abs.), Seismological Research Letters, v. 77, p. 274.

Seed, R.B., Cetin, K.O., Moss, R.E.S., Kammerer, A.M., Wu, J., Pestana, J.M., and Riemer, M.F.
(2001), Recent advances in soil liquefaction engineering and seismic site response
evaluation, Fourth International Conference on Recent Advances in Geotechnical
Earthquake Engineering and Soil Dynamics, University of Missouri-Rolla, Rolla, Missouri,
2001, Paper No. SPL-2, 45 p.

Stark, T.D., Choi, H., and McCone, S. (2005), "Drained shear strength parameters for
analysis of landslides," Journal of Geotechnical and Geoenvironmental Engineering, v. 131,
no. 5, pp. 575-588.

Stewart, J.P., Blake, T.M., and Hollingsworth, R.A. (2003), Development of a screen analysis
procedure for seismic slope stability: Earthquake Spectra, 19 (3), pp. 697-712.

USGS (2002), National Seismic Hazard Maps, Data and Documentation web page:
http://eqhazmap.usgs.gov. For obtaining a pga for a specific probability or return period
see http://earthquake.usgs.gov/research/hazmaps/design/.

Watry, S.M. and Lade, P.V. (2000), "Residual shear strengths of bentonites on Palos Verdes
Peninsula, California," Proceedings of the session of Geo-Denver 2000, American Society of
Civil Engineers, pp. 323-342.
Notes

1 1. The SP117 Guidelines Committee (Blake and others, 2002) struggled in its
  deliberations regarding this issue and was unable to reach unanimous consensus.
  However, it was the judgment of all but one of the committee members (14 out of the
  15) that when the critical slip surface from slope stability analysis daylights within a
  structure that is likely to be occupied by people during an earthquake, and if
  calculated median displacements (u) can be maintained at less than 5 cm, it is unlikely
  that the building would be damaged sufficiently to significantly threaten its structural
  integrity. One of the committee members felt that the calculated median seismic
  displacements through occupied structures should be maintained at less than 15 cm,
  but other than having that opinion, he did not offer a specific justification for that
  choice. Neither of those values (5 or 15 cm) is necessarily the "correct" median value,
  because they are judgment-based.


   Ideally, allowable displacements for analyses would be established from a database in
   which observed slope displacements from earthquakes are correlated to measures of
   damage in structures. Unfortunately, however, such data do not exist in sufficient
   quantity to be useful, and hence there is an insufficient basis for selecting allowable
   displacements empirically. Accordingly, allowable displacement levels are established
   from engineering judgment. A number of factors affect the degree to which slope
   displacements will be damaging to structures. Displacements that occur beneath
   occupied structures are more critical than those in garden areas or streets.
   Displacements that occur abruptly across a narrow shear surface can be more
   damaging than those that are broadly distributed across a wide zone of deformation.
   Moreover, different structural systems will have different tolerances to differential
   movements beneath their foundation.


   In their recent paper, Bray and Travasarou (2007) describe displacements of 1 cm or
   less as "negligible" and displacements of 5 cm or less as "minor." In an oral
   presentation made to the Los Angeles section of ASCE (on November 15, 2007),
   Jonathan Bray described seismic displacements of 15 cm to 1 m as "moderate" and
   those larger than 1 m as "large," but he cautioned that such general classifications
   depend on things such as the foundation system, consequences of displacement, the
   soil behavior, etc.



9-19-161-4: APPENDIX D, MINIMUM STANDARDS FOR LIQUEFACTION INVESTIGATIONS AND
EVALUATIONS:
1.0 INTRODUCTION

The procedures outlined herein are intended to provide consultants with a general outline
for performing liquefaction investigations and to specify the expectations of Draper City.
These standards constitute the minimum level of effort required in conducting liquefaction
investigations in Draper City. Considering the complexity inherent in performing
liquefaction investigations, additional effort beyond the minimum standards presented
herein may be required at some sites to adequately address the liquefaction potential at
the site. The information presented herein does not relieve consultants of their duty to
perform additional geologic or geotechnical engineering analyses they believe are
necessary to adequately assess the liquefaction potential at a site.

The purpose of establishing minimum standards for liquefaction investigations is to:

(a) Protect the health, safety, welfare, and property of the public by minimizing the
potentially adverse effects of liquefaction and related hazards;

(b) Assist property owners and land developers in conducting reasonable and adequate
studies;

(c) Provide consulting engineering geologists and geotechnical engineers with a common
basis for preparing proposals, conducting investigations, and mitigation; and,

(d) Provide an objective framework for regulatory review of liquefaction investigation
reports.

1.1 References and Sources

The minimum standards presented herein were developed, in part, from the following
sources:

(a) CDMG Special Publication 117, Guidelines for evaluating and mitigating seismic
hazards in California (1997).

(b) Recommended procedures for implementation of DMG special publication 117,
guidelines for analyzing and mitigating liquefaction hazards in California (Martin and Lew,
1999).

(c) Proceedings of the NCEER Workshop on Evaluation of Liquefaction Resistance of Soils,
Technical Report NCEER-97-0022 (Youd and Idriss, 1997).

(d) Liquefaction Resistance of Soils: Summary Report from the 1996 and 1998 NCEER/NSF
Workshops on Evaluation of Liquefaction Resistance of Soils, Journal of Geotechnical and
Environmental Engineering, (Youd et al., 2001).

(e) Salt Lake County geologic hazards ordinance (2002).

(d) Draper City geologic hazard ordinance (2003).
(e) City of Camarillo, California 2003 Guidelines for the preparation of geotechnical and
geologic studies, prepared by Fugro, dated June 18, 2003.

(f) City of Palmdale, California, Guidelines for preparation of geotechnical reports,
prepared by GeoDynamics, Inc., dated April 2006 (draft copy).

(g) City of Malibu, California, Guidelines for the preparation of engineering geologic and
geotechnical engineering reports and procedure for report submittal, prepared by Bing Yen
and Associates) dated April, 2006.

1.2 Properties Requiring Liquefaction Analyses

Plate A-2 (Appendix A of the Draper City Geologic Hazards Ordinance, chapter 9-19),
Liquefaction Special Study Area Map, depicts generalized liquefaction susceptibility for the
city, and shall be used to determine whether or not a site-specific liquefaction assessment
is required for a particular project.

The Liquefaction Special Study Area map is based on a regional- scale investigation of Salt
Lake County. These maps may not identify all areas that have potential for liquefaction; a
site located outside of a zone of required investigation is not necessarily free from
liquefaction hazard. The zone does not always include lateral spread run-out areas. The
Liquefaction Special Study Area map is available from the Draper City Planning
Department.

The Draper City Geologic Hazards Ordinance requires a site- specific liquefaction
investigation to be performed prior to approval of a project based on the land-
use/liquefaction potential matrix shown in the following table.



 Type Of Facility                                       Liquefaction       Acceptable
                                                        Study Area         Factor Of Safety
 Critical facilities (essential facilities, hazardous   YES                1.3
 facilities, and special occupancy structures as
 defined in section 9-19-20
 Category III and IV in table 1604.58 of the most       YES                1.3
 recently adopted edition of the IBC.
 Industrial and commercial buildings.                   YES                1.25
 Residential structures and subdivisions                NO



1.3 Roles of Engineering Geology and Geotechnical Engineering

The investigation of liquefaction hazard is an interdisciplinary practice. The site
investigation report must be prepared by a qualified engineering geologist or geotechnical
engineer, who must have competence in the field of seismic hazard evaluation and
mitigation, and be reviewed by a qualified engineering geologist or geotechnical engineer,
also competent in the field of seismic hazard evaluation and mitigation.

Because of the differing expertise and abilities of qualified engineering geologists and
geotechnical engineers, the scope of the site investigation report for the project may
require that both types of professionals prepare and review the report, each practicing in
the area of their expertise. Involvement of both a qualified engineering geologist and
geotechnical engineer will generally provide greater assurance that the hazard is properly
identified, assessed, and mitigated.

Liquefaction analyses are the responsibility of the geotechnical engineer, although the
engineering geologist should be involved in the application of screening criteria (section
3.0, steps 1 and 2) and general geologic site evaluation (section 4.1) to map the likely extent
of liquefiable deposits and shallow groundwater. Engineering properties of earth material
shall be evaluated by the geotechnical engineer. The performance of the quantitative
liquefaction analysis resulting in a numerical factor of safety and quantitative assessment
of settlement and liquefaction-induced permanent ground displacement shall be
performed by geotechnical engineers. The geotechnical and civil engineers shall develop all
mitigation and design recommendations. Ground motion parameters for use in
quantitative liquefaction analyses may be provided by either the engineering geologist or
geotechnical engineer.

1.4 Minimum Qualifications of the Licensed Professional

Liquefaction analyses must be performed by qualified engineering geologists and qualified
geotechnical engineers (see sections 9-19-050 and 9-19-060 of the Draper City Geologic
Hazards Ordinance).

 2.0 GENERAL REQUIREMENTS

Except for the derivation of input ground motion (see section 5.0), liquefaction
investigations should be performed in general accordance with the latest version of
Recommended Procedures for Implementation of DMG Special Publication 117, Guidelines
for Analyzing and Mitigating Liquefaction in California (Martin and Lew, 1999). Additional
protocol for liquefaction investigations is provided in Youd and Idriss (1997). See Draper
City Geologic Hazard Ordinance (Chapter 9-19) for supplemental requirements. Acceptable
factors of safety are shown on the table in section 1.2.

3.0 PRELIMINARY SCREENING FOR LIQUEFACTION

The Liquefaction Study Area map is based on broad regional studies and does not replace
site-specific studies. The fact that a site is located within a Liquefaction Study Area does not
mean that there is a significant liquefaction potential at the site, only that a study shall be
performed to determine if there is.
Soil liquefaction is caused by strong seismic ground shaking where saturated, cohesionless,
granular soil undergoes a significant loss in shear strength that can result in settlement
and permanent ground displacement. Surface effects of liquefaction include: settlement,
bearing capacity failure, ground oscillations, lateral spread and flow failure. It has been well
documented that soil liquefaction may occur in clean sands, silty sands, and sandy silt, non-
plastic silts and gravelly soils. The following conditions must be present for liquefaction to
occur:

(a) Soils must be submerged below the water table;

(b) Soils must be loose to moderately dense;

(c) Ground shaking must be relatively intense; and

(d) The duration of ground shaking must be sufficient for the soils to generate seismically-
induced excess pore water pressure and lose their shearing resistance.

The following screening criteria may be applied to determine if further quantitative
evaluation of liquefaction hazard is required:

(a) If the estimated maximum past-, current-, and maximum- future-groundwater-levels
(i.e., the highest groundwater level applicable for liquefaction analyses) are determined to
be deeper than 50 feet below the existing ground surface or proposed finished grade
(whichever is deeper), liquefaction assessments are not required. For soil materials that are
located above the level of the groundwater, a quantitative assessment of seismically
induced settlement is required.

(b) If "bedrock" or similar lithified formational material underlies the site, those materials
need not be considered liquefiable and no analysis of their liquefaction potential is
necessary.

(c) If the corrected standard penetration blow count, (N1)60, is greater than or equal to 33
in all samples with a sufficient number of tests, liquefaction assessments are not required.
If cone penetration test soundings are made, the corrected cone penetration test tip
resistance, qc1N, should be greater than or equal to 180 in all soundings in sand materials,
otherwise liquefaction assessments are needed.

If plastic soil (PI 20) materials are encountered during site exploration, those materials may
be considered non-liquefiable. Additional acceptable screening criteria regarding the
effects of plasticity on liquefaction susceptibility are presented in Boulanger and Idriss
(2004), Bray and Sancio (2006), and Seed and others (2003).

If the screening investigation clearly demonstrates the absence of liquefaction hazards at a
project site and the City concurs, the screening investigation will satisfy the site
investigation report requirement for liquefaction hazards. If not, a quantitative evaluation
is required to assess the liquefaction hazards.
4.0 FIELD INVESTIGATIONS

Geotechnical field investigations are routinely performed for new projects as part of the
normal development and design process. Geologic reconnaissance and subsurface
explorations are normally performed as part of the field exploration program even when
liquefaction does not need to be investigated.

4.1 Geologic Reconnaissance

Geologic research and reconnaissance are important to provide information to define the
extent of unconsolidated deposits that may be prone to liquefaction. Such information
should be presented on geologic maps and cross sections and provide a description of the
formations present at the site that includes the nature, thickness, and origin of Quaternary
deposits with liquefaction potential. There also should be an analysis of groundwater
conditions at the site that includes the highest recorded water level and the highest water
level likely to occur under the most adverse foreseeable conditions in the future.

During the field investigation, the engineering geologist should map the limits of
unconsolidated deposits with liquefaction potential. Liquefaction typically occurs in
cohesionless silt, sand, and fine-grained gravel deposits of Holocene to late Pleistocene age
in areas where the groundwater is shallower than about 50 feet.

Shallow groundwater may exist for a variety of reasons, some of which are of natural and
or manmade origin. Landscape irrigation, on-site sewage disposal, and unlined manmade
lakes reservoirs, and storm-water detention basins may create a shallow groundwater
table in sediments that were previously unsaturated.

4.2 Subsurface Explorations

Subsurface explorations shall consist of drilled-borings and/or cone penetration tests
(CPTs). The exploration program shall be planned to determine the soil stratigraphy,
groundwater level, and indices that could be used to evaluate the potential for liquefaction
by either in situ testing or by laboratory testing of soil samples. Borings and CPT soundings
must penetrate a minimum of 50 feet below final ground surface. If a standard penetration
test (SPT) is used, sampling intervals shall not exceed 2.5 feet.

For saturated cohesionless soils where the SPT (N1)60 values are less than 15, or where
CPT tip resistances are below 60 tsf, grain-size analyses, hydrometers tests, and Atterberg
Limits tests shall be performed on these soils to further evaluate their potential for
permanent ground displacement (Youd et al., 2002) and other forms of liquefaction-
induced ground failure and settlement.

Where a structure may have subterranean construction or deep foundations (e.g., caissons
or piles), the depth of investigation should extend to a depth that is a minimum of 20 feet
(6 m) below the lowest expected foundation level (e.g., caisson bottom or pile tip) or 50 feet
(15 m) below the existing ground surface or lowest proposed finished grade, whichever is
deeper. If, during the investigation, the indices to evaluate liquefaction indicate that the
liquefaction potential may extend below that depth, the exploration should be continued
until a significant thickness (at least 10 feet or 3 m, to the extent possible) of nonliquefiable
soils are encountered.

5.0 GROUND MOTION FOR LIQUEFACTION SUSCEPTIBILITY AND GROUND DEFORMATION
ANALYSES

The two controlling faults that would most affect Draper City are the Salt Lake City and
Provo segments of the Wasatch Fault Zone (WFZ). Repeated Holocene movement has been
well documented along both segments (Black and others, 2003). Studies along the Provo
segment of the WFZ indicate a recurrence interval of about 1150 years (Olig, and others,
2006; later revised, Olig, 2007) and the most recent event being about 500 to 650 years ago
(Black and others, 2003; Olig, and others, 2006). Studies along the Salt Lake City segment of
the WFZ indicate a recurrence interval of about 1300 years and the most recent event
being about 1300 years ago (Lund, 2005). Based on the paleoseismic record of the Salt Lake
City segment and assuming a time-dependent model, McCalpin (2002) estimates a
conditional probability (using a log-normal renewal model) of 16.5% in the next 100 years
(8.25% in the next 50 years) for a M>7 surface-faulting earthquake. Therefore, using a time-
dependent rather than Poisson or random model for earthquake recurrence, the likelihood
of a large surface-faulting earthquake on the Salt Lake City segment of the WFZ is relatively
high and therefore the Salt Lake City segment is considered the primary controlling fault
for deterministic analyses.

In regards to design ground accelerations for liquefaction analyses, Draper City prefers a
probabilistic approach to determining the likelihood that different levels of ground motion
will be exceeded at a particular site within a given time period. In order to more closely
represent the seismic characteristics of the WFZ and better capture this possible high
likelihood of a surface-faulting earthquake on the Salt Lake City segment, design ground
motion parameters for liquefaction analyses shall be based on the peak accelerations with
a 3.5 percent probability in 50 years (1,400-year return period). Peak bedrock ground
motions can be readily obtained via the internet from the United States Geological Survey
(USGS) National Seismic Hazard Maps, Data and Documentation web page (USGS, 2002),
which is based on Frankel and others (2002). PGAs obtained from the USGS (2002) web
page should be adjusted for effects of soil/rock (site-class) conditions in accordance with
Seed and others (2001) or other appropriate methods that consider the site-specific soil
conditions and their potential for amplification/deamplification of the high frequency
strong motion.

6.0 REMEDIAL DESIGN

Sites, facilities, buildings, structures and utilities that are founded on or traverse liquefiable
soils may require further remedial design and/or relocation to avoid liquefaction-induced
damage. These should be investigated and evaluated on a site- specific basis with sufficient
geologic and geotechnical evaluations to support the remedial design and/or mitigative
plan. This design or plan may include: changes/modifications to the soil, foundation
system, structural frame or support of the building, etc. and should be reviewed and
approved by the City.

7.0 SUBMITTALS

Submittals for review shall include: boring logs; geologic cross- sections; laboratory data;
discussions pertaining to how idealized subsurface conditions and parameters used for
analyses were developed; analytical results, including computer output files (on request);
and summaries of the liquefaction analyses and conclusions regarding liquefaction
potential and likely types and amounts of ground failure.

Subsurface geologic and groundwater conditions must be illustrated on geologic cross-
sections and must be utilized by the geotechnical engineer for the liquefaction analyses. If
on- site sewage or storm-water disposal exists or is proposed, the liquefaction analyses
shall include the effects of the effluent plume on liquefaction potential.

The results of any liquefaction analyses must be submitted with pertinent backup
documentation (i.e., calculations, computer output, etc.). Printouts of input data, output
data (on request), and graphical plots must be submitted for each computer-aided
liquefaction analysis. In addition, input data files, recorded on diskettes, CDs, or other
electronic media, may be requested to facilitate the City's review.

 Appendix D - References

Bartlett, S.F. and Youd, T. L., (1995), Empirical prediction of liquefaction-induced lateral
spread: Journal of Geotechnical Engineering, Vol. 121, No. 4, April, A.S.C.E., pp. 316-329.

Black, B.D., Hecker, S., Hylland, M.D., Christenson, G.E., and McDonald, G.N., (2003),
Quaternary fault and fold database and map of Utah, Utah Geological Survey Map 193DM.

Boulanger, R.W., and Idriss I.M., (2004), "Evaluating the potential for liquefaction resistance
or cyclic failures of silts and clays, Report UCD/CGM-04/01 University of California, Davis
California.

Bray J. D. and Sancio R. B., (2006), Assessment of Liquefaction Susceptibility of Fine-Grained
Soils, ASCE Journal of Geotechnical and Geoenvironmental Engineering, September 2006.

California Division of Mines and Geology (CDMG), (1997), Guidelines for evaluating and
mitigating seismic hazards in California, CDMG Special Publication (SP) 117.

Lund, W.R. (2005), Consensus preferred recurrence-interval and vertical slip-rate estimates-
Review of Utah paleoseismic- trenching data by the Utah Quaternary Fault Parameters
Working Group, Utah Geological Survey Bulletin 134, CD.

McCalpin, J., (2002), Post-Bonneville paleoearthquake chronology of the Salt Lake City
segment, Wasatch fault zone, from the 1999 (mega-trench) site, Utah Geological Survey
Miscellaneous Publication 02-7.
Frankel, A.D., Petersen, M.D., Mueller, C.S., Haller, K.M., Wheeler, R.L., Leyendecker, E.V.,
Wesson, R.L., Harmsen, S.C., Cramer, C.H., Perkins, D.M., and Rukstales, K.S., (2002),
Documentation for the 2002 Update of the National Seismic Hazard Maps, U.S.G.S. Open-
File Report 02-420, 33p.

Martin, G.R. and Lew, M., eds., (1999), Recommended procedures for implementation of
DMG special publication 117, guidelines for analyzing and mitigating liquefaction potential
in California, Southern California Earthquake Center (SCEC), University of Southern
California, 63 p.

Olig, Susan S., McDonald, Greg, Black, Bill D., DuRoss, Christopher B., and Lund, William R.,
(2006), A longer and more complete paleoseismic record for the Provo segment of the
Wasatch fault zone, Utah, 2006 Seismological Society of America Annual Meeting in San
Francisco, California, April 17-22, 2006.

Olig, (2007), URS Corp, Oakland, California; written communication, August, 2007.

Seed, H.B., and Idriss, I.M., (1982), Ground motion and soil liquefaction during earthquakes:
Earthquake Engineering Research Institute, Oakland, California, 135 p.

Seed, R.B., Cetin, K.O., Moss, R.E.S., Kammerer, A.M., Wu, J., Pestana, J.M., and Riemer, M.F.,
(2001), Recent advances in soil liquefaction engineering and seismic site response
evaluation, Fourth International Conference on Recent Advances in Geotechnical
Earthquake Engineering and Soil Dynamics, University of Missouri-Rolla, Rolla, Missouri,
2001, Paper No. SPL-2, 45 p.

Seed, R.B., Cetin, K.O., Moss, R.E.S., Kammerer, A.M., Wu, J., Pestana, J.M., and Riemer, M.F.
(2001) Recent Advances in Soil Liquefaction Engineering and Seismic Site Response
Evaluation, Proceedings, Fourth International Conference on Recent Advances in
Geotechnical Earthquake Engineering and Soil Dynamics and Symposium in Honor of
Professor W.D. Liam Finn, San Diego, California, March 26-31, 2001, 45 pp.

Seed, R.B., Cetin, K.O., Moss, R.E.S., Kammerer, A.M., Wu, J., Pestana, J.M., and Riemer, M.F.,
Sancio, R.B., Bray, J.D., Kayen, R.E., and Faris, A. (2003) Recent Advances in Soil Liquefaction
Engineering: A Unified and Consistent Framework, 26th Annual ASCE Los Angeles
Geotechnical Spring Seminar, Keynote Presentation, H.M.S. Queen Mary, Long Beach,
California, April 30, 2003, 71 pp.

Youd, T.L., and Idriss, I.M., eds., (1997), Proceedings of the NCEER workshop on evaluation
of liquefaction resistance of soils: National Center for Earthquake Engineering Research
Technical Report NCEER 97-0022.

Youd, T.L., and Gilstrap, S.D., (1999), Liquefaction and deformation of silty and fine-grained
soils: Proceedings of the Second International Conference on Earthquake Geotechnical
Engineering, Lisboa, Portugal, 21-25 June 1999, Seco e Pinto (ed.), pp. 1013-1020.
Youd, T.C., Hansen, C.M., and Bartlett, S.F., (2002), Revised MLR equations for predicting
lateral spread displacement, ASCE Journal of Geotechnical and Geoenvironmental
Engineering, December 2002.



9-19-161-5: APPENDIX E, MINIMUM STANDARDS FOR DEBRIS FLOW ANALYSES:

Debris-flow reports shall follow general guidance contained in "Guidelines for the geologic
evaluation of debris-flow hazards on alluvial fans in Utah," Utah Geological Survey
Miscellaneous Publication 05-6. Debris-flow hazard analyses and mitigation measures may
require contributions from hydrologists as well as qualified engineering geologists and
geotechnical engineers.



9-19-161-6: APPENDIX F, MINIMUM STANDARDS FOR ROCKFALL ANALYSES:

Useful methods to evaluate rock-fall hazards are outlined in: Evans, S.G., and Hungr, O.,
1993, The assessment of rockfall hazard at the base of talus slopes: Canadian Geotechnical
Journal, v. 30, p. 620-636; Jones, C.L., Higgins, J.D., and Andrew, R.D., 2000, Colorado rockfall
simulation program, version 4.0: Report prepared for the Colorado Department of
Transportation, 127 p.; and Wieczorek, G.F., Morrissey, M.M., Iovine, G., and Godt, J., 1998,
Rock-fall hazards in the Yosemite Valley: U.S. Geological Survey Open-File Report 98-467, 7
p., 1 pl., scale 1:12,000. Rock-fall studies shall be prepared by a qualified engineering
geologist and may require contributions from a qualified geotechnical engineer,
particularly in the design of mitigation measures.

…

9-27-085: RETAINING WALLS:

…

D. Geologic Hazards Ordinance Applicability: The Draper City geologic hazards ordinance,
   section 9-19-161-3 Title 10, Chapter 7, and "Appendix CB, “Minimum Standards For
   Slope Stability Analysies", of this title, section 1.2 the Geotechnical Engineering
   Standards, requires global stability analysis of modified natural slopes steeper than
   three horizontal to one vertical (3H:1V) and cut or fill slopes of two horizontal to one
   vertical (2H:1V) or greater.

    …
TITLE 10
BUILDING REGULATIONS

…

CHAPTER 7
GEOLOGIC HAZARDS



10-7-010: PURPOSE:

A. The purpose of the Draper City (the City) geologic hazards ordinance is to protect the
   health, safety, welfare, and property of the citizens of the City, protect the city’s
   infrastructure and financial health and minimize adverse effects of geologic hazards to
   public health, safety, and property by encouraging wise land use.

B. This chapter and the appendices of the Geotechnical Engineering Standards address fault
   activity, slope stability, liquefaction, debris-flow, and rockfall hazards and present
   minimum standards and methods for evaluating geologic hazards.

C. All persons required to comply with this chapter shall present the results of geologic
   hazards investigations in compliance with this chapter and the appendices of the
   Geotechnical Engineering Standards. The standards set forth in the appendices of the
   Geotechnical Engineering Standards are minimum requirements. More complex projects
   may require more detailed and in-depth evaluations than outlined herein. In addition,
   the appendices of the Geotechnical Engineering Standards shall not supersede other,
   more-stringent requirements that may be required by other regulatory agencies.

D. Geologic hazards special study area maps reflecting geological concerns pertaining to
   development within the City may be viewed at the City online map portal via the geologic
   information application. The maps incorporate data obtained from previous geologic
   hazards study investigations performed in the City. Site-specific geologic hazards
   assessments performed by engineering geologists and/or geotechnical engineers shall
   be required before developing projects located within a geologic hazards study area. In
   the event known or readily apparent geologic hazards exist in an area subject to a
   development application, which area is not depicted on the geologic hazards special study
   area maps, the applicant shall nevertheless submit the applicable investigation and the
   process outlined in this chapter shall be followed.



10-7-015: ESTABLISHMENT OF STANDARDS AND SPECIFICATIONS:

The city manager, with the advice and consent of the city council through resolution, shall
establish certain standards and specifications that shall be applicable to this chapter. All
such standards and specifications shall be published in the Geotechnical Engineering
Standards on file with the building division for public inspection and review.



10-7-020: DEFINITIONS:

As used in this chapter:

ACCEPTABLE AND REASONABLE RISK: no loss of life or significant injury to occupants, no
release of hazardous or toxic substances, and structural damage following an earthquake,
rockfall, debris flow, or other natural hazard that retains a margin against the onset of partial
or total collapse.

ACCESSORY BUILDING: any structure not designed for human occupancy, which may include
tool or storage sheds, gazebos, and swimming pools.

ALLUVIAL FAN: a gently sloping fan-shaped landform (in plan view), created over time by
stream deposition of eroded sediments where the stream emerges from a narrow drainage
onto a plain or broad valley.

APPLICANT: any person, including a person’s agents or consultants, required to act in
compliance with this chapter. The city and its agents and consultants are not applicants.

BUILDABLE AREA:

   1. The part of a site that may be developed after required setbacks have been deducted
      and open space requirements of Title 9 of this code have been met, and

   2. If applicable, based on an accepted geologic hazards study report, the part of a site
      not impacted by geologic hazards, or the part of a site where the identified geologic
      hazards can be mitigated to an acceptable risk.

CITY: the city council, mayor, city manager, public works director, city engineer, community
development director, planning manager, building official, or other city employee.

CRITICAL FACILITIES: essential, hazardous, special occupancy facilities, and Risk Categories III
and IV as defined in the currently adopted International Building Code, and lifelines such as
major utility, transportation, and communication facilities and their connections to critical
facilities.

DEBRIS FLOW: a slurry of rock, soil, organic material, and water transported in an extremely
fast and destructive flow that flows down channels and onto and across alluvial fans,
including a continuum of sedimentation events and processes including debris flows, debris
floods, mudflows, clear-water floods, and alluvial-fan flooding.
DEVELOPMENT: all critical facilities, subdivisions, single- and multi-family dwellings,
commercial and industrial buildings, retaining walls, and public right-of-way improvements,
also additions to or intensification of existing buildings, storage facilities, pipelines, and utility
conveyances, and other land uses.

ENGINEERING GEOLOGIST: a Utah-licensed geologist, who, through education, training, and
experience, is competent in applying geologic data, techniques, and principles, such that
geologic conditions and factors affecting engineered works are recognized, adequately
interpreted, and clearly presented for use in engineering practice, land use planning, and the
protection of the public, safety, and welfare.

The individual must meet the following qualifications:

   1. An undergraduate or graduate degree in geology, engineering geology, or geological
      engineering, or closely related field, from an accredited college or university.

   2. Five full years of experience in a responsible position in the field of engineering
      geology in Utah, or in a state with similar geologic hazards and regulatory
      environments.

ENGINEERING GEOLOGY: geologic work relevant to engineering and environmental
concerns, and public health, safety, welfare, and property. Engineering geology is the
application of geological data, principles, and interpretation so geological factors affecting
planning, design, construction, and maintenance of engineered works, land use planning,
and groundwater resources are adequately recognized and properly interpreted for use in
engineering, land-use planning, and related practice.

ESSENTIAL FACILITY: buildings and other structures intended to remain operational in the
event of an adverse geologic event, including all structures defined in section 10-7-160 of this
chapter.

FAULT: a fracture in the earth's crust forming a boundary between rock or soil masses that
have moved relative to each other.

GEOLOGIC HAZARD: a surface-fault rupture, liquefaction, slope instability, landslide, debris
flow, and rockfall that may present a risk to life or property.

GEOLOGIC HAZARDS STUDY REPORT: a report containing the results of the geologic hazards
study including maps, figures, data, and calculations that substantiate all conclusions and
recommendations.

GEOLOGIC HAZARDS STUDY AREA: a potentially hazardous area as shown on the geologic
hazards special study area maps within which geologic hazards investigations are required
prior to development.
GEOLOGIC RESTRICTED AREA: 1) an area of a property not included in a site-specific geologic
hazards investigation, and 2) where a geologic hazards investigation must be performed
before development and/or issuance of building permits for habitable structures.

GEOTECHNICAL ENGINEER: a Utah-licensed civil engineer who, through education, training,
and experience, is competent in the field of geotechnical engineering for use in engineering
practice, land use planning, and the protection of the public, safety, and welfare.

The individual must meet the following qualifications:

   1. A graduate degree in civil engineering, with an emphasis in geotechnical engineering;
      or an undergraduate degree in civil engineering with twelve (12) semester hours of
      graduate level education in geotechnical engineering, or course content related to
      evaluation of geologic hazards, from an accredited college or university.

   2. Five (5) full years of experience in a responsible position in the field of geotechnical
      engineering in Utah, or in a state with similar geologic hazards and regulatory
      environment, and experience demonstrating the engineer’s knowledge and
      application of appropriate techniques in participating in geologic hazards studies,
      including slope stability analyses.

GEOTECHNICAL ENGINEERING: the study and engineering evaluation of earth materials
including soil, rock, and man-made materials and their interaction with earth retention
systems, foundations, and other civil engineering works. The practice involves the fields of
soil mechanics, rock mechanics, and earth sciences and requires knowledge of engineering
laws, formulas, construction techniques, and performance evaluation of engineering.

GEOTECHNICAL ENGINEERING REPORT: reports prepared to provide data on the physical
properties of surface and subsurface soil conditions for the development of a property that
contain the findings of field studies, including maps, plans, figures, data, calculations, etc.
necessary to substantiate all geotechnical engineering conclusions and recommendations.

LANDSLIDE: the downslope movement of a mass of soil, surficial deposits, or bedrock,
including a continuum of processes between landslides, earth-flows, debris flows, debris
avalanches, and rockfalls.

LIQUEFACTION: a process by which certain water-saturated soils lose bearing strength
because of earthquake-related ground shaking and subsequent increase of groundwater
pore pressure.

NON-BUILDABLE AREA: the portion of a site which a geologic hazards study report has
concluded may be impacted by geologic hazards and cannot be reasonably mitigated to an
acceptable level, and where the siting of structures designed for human occupancy,
structures requiring a building permit, or critical facilities is not permitted.
ROCKFALL: a rock or mass of rock, newly detached from a cliff or other steep slope which
moves downslope by falling, rolling, toppling, or bouncing; includes rockslides, rockfall
avalanches, and talus.

SETBACK: an area subject to risk from a geologic hazard, within which construction of critical
facilities and structures designed for human occupancy are not permitted.

SLOPE STABILITY: the resistance of a natural or artificial slope or other inclined surface to
failure by landsliding, usually assessed under both static and dynamic (earthquake-induced)
conditions.

SLOPE STABILITY ANALYSIS: the analysis of the static and seismic stability of engineered and
natural slopes of soil and rock.

STRUCTURE DESIGNED FOR HUMAN OCCUPANCY: any building or structure containing a
habitable space, or classified as an assembly, business, educational, factory and industrial,
institutional, mercantile, or residential occupancy classification under the adopted
International Building Code and/or any residential dwelling or any other structure containing
a habitable space used or intended for supporting or sheltering any use or occupancy, which
is expected to have an occupancy rate of at least 2000 person-hours per year but does not
include an accessory building.



10-7-030: SCOPE:

A. The regulations contained in this chapter shall apply to all lands in the City.

B. This chapter shall apply to any geologic hazards investigation for the purpose of
   determining the feasibility of development or for exploring, evaluating, or establishing
   locations for permanent improvements.



10-7-040: RESPONSIBILITY FOR GEOLOGIC HAZARDS STUDY INVESTIGATIONS:

Geologic hazards investigations often involve both engineering geology and geotechnical
engineering. Geologic hazards investigations shall be performed under the direct supervision
of an engineering geologist (see Section 10-7-050) and/or geotechnical engineer (see Section
10-7-060). Geotechnical engineering investigations shall be performed under the direct
supervision of a geotechnical engineer (see Section 10-7-060).



10-7-050: MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS OF THE GEOLOGIST:

Engineering geology and the evaluation of geologic hazards is a specialized discipline within
the practice of geology requiring technical expertise and knowledge of techniques not
commonly used in other geologic investigations. Therefore, geologic hazards investigations
shall only be accepted by the City when conducted, signed and sealed by a Utah-licensed
geologist, meeting the qualifications of an engineering geologist as defined in Section 10-7-
020.



10-7-060: MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS OF THE GEOTECHNICAL ENGINEER:

Evaluation and mitigation of geologic hazards often require contributions from a
geotechnical engineer, particularly in the design of mitigation measures. Geotechnical
engineering is a specialized discipline within the practice of civil engineering requiring
technical expertise and knowledge of techniques not commonly used in civil engineering
investigations. Therefore, geologic hazards investigations requiring a geotechnical engineer
will only be accepted by the City when also signed and sealed by a Utah-licensed civil
engineer meeting the qualifications of a geotechnical engineer as defined in Section 10-7-
020.



10-7-070: PRELIMINARY ACTIVITIES:

This section shall apply to the investigation of any geologic hazards as defined herein.

A. Scoping Meeting: The applicant or consultant shall schedule a scoping meeting with the
   City to evaluate the engineering geologist’s and geotechnical engineer’s (if applicable)
   investigative approach. Before scheduling the scoping meeting, the applicant’s
   engineering geologist consultant and geotechnical engineering consultant (if applicable)
   shall present a written work plan which includes a site plan depicting anticipated geologic
   hazards and proposed explorations, such as trenches, borings, cone penetration test,
   proposed cross-section(s) for slope stability analysis as applicable that meet the
   requirements of the City geologic hazards ordinance, and any other information upon
   request. All work plans shall include the original or electronic signature and professional
   seal, both in blue ink, of the qualified professional(s) responsible for the work plan.

   The investigation approach should allow for flexibility due to unexpected site
   conditions. Field findings may require modifications to the work plan. Upon completion
   of a successful scoping meeting, a land disturbance permit application may be
   submitted to the City. A work plan approval letter will be issued by the City after
   acceptance of the consultants’ work plan.

B. Land Disturbance Permit: As required by Title 18 of this code and except as otherwise
   noted therein, no person shall commence or perform any land disturbance, grading,
   relocation of earth, or any other land disturbance activity, without first obtaining a land
   disturbance permit. For geologic hazards investigations, an application for a land
   disturbance permit shall be filed with the City Engineer on forms furnished by the City
   for such purposes only after a scoping meeting has taken place.

C. Responsible Contact: The applicant shall specify a primary contact responsible for
   coordination with the City during the land disturbance activity.



10-7-080: GEOLOGIC HAZARDS SPECIAL STUDY AREA MAPS:

A. Geologic hazards special study area maps are prepared using the best available scientific
   information but are necessarily generalized and intended only to indicate areas where
   hazards may exist and where geologic hazards investigations are required. Because the
   City geologic hazards special study area maps are prepared at a non-site-specific scale,
   geologic hazards special study area maps may exist that are not shown on the geologic
   hazards special study area maps. The fact that a site is not in a geologic hazards study
   area map for a particular hazard does not exempt the applicant from considering the
   hazard if evidence is found that it may exist. If it is subsequently determined that the site
   has geologic hazards that are not shown on the geologic hazards special study area maps,
   the review process will be pursuant to this chapter.

B. Geologic hazards special study area boundaries shown on the maps will not be
   systematically adjusted as each individual site-specific study indicates whether an actual
   hazard exists at a site because geologic hazards study area maps are meant only to
   indicate where scientific evidence indicates a hazard may exist. However, geologic
   hazards special study area maps may be updated and amended by the City if found to
   be inaccurate or in error, or as new methods or data are developed to better define areas
   of potential hazards.

C. Where geologic hazards special study area maps are thought by an applicant to be
   inaccurate or in error and require revision, the applicant shall submit to the City technical
   evidence by a qualified professional supporting the claim and showing the proposed
   revision. The City will review the information and render a decision. The applicant may
   appeal the decision using the process outlined in Section 10-7-110(L).



10-7-090: GEOLOGIC HAZARDS STUDY INVESTIGATIONS AND GEOLOGIC HAZARDS STUDY
REPORTS:

Except as provided in 10-7-095, any applicant requesting development approval on a parcel
or lot of land within a geologic hazards study area or where there are known, or readily
apparent geologic hazards and the area is not depicted on the geologic hazards special study
area maps, the applicant shall:

   1. Perform a geologic hazards investigation, and,
   2. Submit one electronic copy and two paper copies of site-specific geologic hazards
      study report to the City. Only electronic copies of geologic hazards study reports are
      retained by the City. Paper copies of geologic hazards study reports are only provided
      for use by the City geologic and geotechnical engineering consultants to facilitate the
      review process.

For sites outside the slope stability special study areas shown in the City online Geologic
Information Application, slope stability analyses shall be completed in accordance with
Appendix B of the Geotechnical Engineering Standards when proposed development
includes natural, or cut and/or fill slopes steeper than or equal to 3 horizontal (h) to 1 vertical
(v).



10-7-095: GEOLOGIC HAZARDS STUDY INVESTIGATIONS AND REPORTS EXEMPTIONS:

A. Any applicant requesting development on a lot that has been included in a subdivision
   plat prior to the adoption of this section may apply for a building permit for that lot
   without submitting a geologic hazards study unless the subdivision plat notes for the lot
   indicate that inclusion in the plat does not guarantee a right to develop.

B. Any applicant requesting development on a lot that has been included in a subdivision
   plat after the adoption of this section does not need to conduct or submit a geologic
   hazards study within the first five (5) years after the plat has been recorded.

C. In order to qualify for an exemption under this section, an applicant for a building permit
   must acknowledge geologic hazards that may apply to the lot in a form provided by the
   city.



10-7-100: GEOLOGIC HAZARDS STUDY REPORTS:

A. Each geologic hazards study report shall be site-specific and shall identify all known or
   suspected potential geologic hazards, originating on-site or off-site, whether previously
   identified or previously unrecognized, that may affect the subject property.

B. All geologic hazards study reports shall include the original or electronic signature and
   professional seal, both in blue ink, of the engineering geologist and geotechnical
   engineer. Geologic hazards reports co-prepared by professional geologists and
   geotechnical engineers must include both professionals’ original or electronic signatures
   and professional seals in blue ink.

C. All final geologic maps, geologic cross-sections, sketches, drawings, plans, etc., prepared
   by, or under the supervision of, the engineering geologist shall bear the signature and
   seal, both in blue ink, of the engineering geologist when submitted to the City.
D. Geologic hazards study reports for fault activity investigations shall contain all
   requirements as described in Appendix A, Minimum Standards for Fault Activity
   Investigations, of the Geotechnical Engineering Standards. Fault activity investigations
   shall be prepared by an engineering geologist.

E. Geologic hazards study reports for slope stability and landslide investigations shall
   contain all requirements as described in Appendix B, Minimum Standards for Slope
   Stability Analyses, of the Geotechnical Engineering Standards. Slope-stability and
   landslide investigations shall be prepared by an engineering geologist and a geotechnical
   engineer.

F. Geologic hazards study reports for liquefaction investigations shall contain all
   requirements as described in Appendix C, Minimum Standards for Liquefaction
   Investigations, of the Geotechnical Engineering Standards. Liquefaction analyses shall be
   prepared by a geotechnical engineer.

G. Geologic hazards study reports for debris-flow investigations shall contain all
   requirements as described in Appendix D, Minimum Standards for Debris Flow
   Investigations, of the Geotechnical Engineering Standards. Debris flow hazard
   investigations shall be prepared by an engineering geologist. Mitigation measures will
   generally require contributions from geotechnical engineers, hydrologists, and/or civil
   engineers.

H. Geologic hazards study reports for rockfall investigations shall contain all requirements
   as described in Appendix E, Minimum Standards for Rockfall Hazard Investigations, of the
   Geotechnical Engineering Standards. Rockfall investigations shall be prepared by an
   engineering geologist. Mitigation measures will generally require contributions from
   geotechnical and/or civil engineers.

I.   All geologic hazards reports shall include, at a minimum:

     1. A discussion of:

        a) the proposed development.

        b) geologic hazards present within and adjacent to the proposed development.

        c) field investigation program.

        d) laboratory testing program.

     2. Conclusions based on adequate and substantiated data regarding the presence or
        absence of geologic hazards within and adjacent to the proposed development.

     3. A vicinity map, with a north arrow and bar scale, depicting major streets, roadways,
        geographic features, and other pertinent data to locate and orient the site.
4. A site plan at a scale of at least 1 inch = 200 feet (or more detailed), with a north arrow
   and bar scale, clearly depicting site boundaries, contours labeled at a minimum of 10-
   foot intervals, proposed buildable area, existing structures, streets, slopes, drainages,
   subsurface explorations, geophysical traverses, etc., and all other pertinent data.

5. A regional geologic map, with a north arrow and bar scale, contours, and references,
   depicting the general surface geology (landslides, alluvial fans, etc.), bedrock geology
   where exposed, bedding attitudes, faults, and other geologic structural features near
   the site (generally a 1:24,000 scale map is adequate); geologic cross-sections may be
   included as deemed appropriate to illustrate three-dimensional relations. The map
   shall include a legend defining all items noted on the map.

6. A site-specific geologic map of the subject area, with a north arrow and bar scale, at
   a scale equal to or more detailed than 1 inch = 200 feet, depicting the locations of
   subsurface explorations and site-specific geologic mapping performed as part of the
   geologic investigation, including boundaries and features related to all geologic
   hazards, topography, contours labeled at a minimum of 10-foot intervals, and
   drainage.

   The site geologic map must show the location and boundaries of the property,
   geologic hazards, delineation of any recommended setbacks from hazards, geologic-
   restricted areas, and recommended locations for structures. Buildable and non-
   buildable areas must be clearly identified. The map shall include a legend defining
   all items noted on the map.

   All bedding, jointing, and other geologic structures must be shown on the site plan
   and/or geologic map following the Federal Geographic Data Committee (FGDC)
   Standard Geologic Map Symbolization.

7. Trench and test pit logs, when applicable, prepared in the field by an engineering
   geologist, and presented in the geologic hazards study report at a scale equal to or
   more detailed than 1 inch = 5 feet.

8. Geologic boring      logs   when    applicable,   prepared     with   standard    geologic
   nomenclature.

9. Geologic cross-section(s), when applicable, prepared by an engineering geologist.

10. All final geologic maps, geologic cross-sections, sketches, drawings, plans, etc., shall
    be prepared by, or under the supervision of, an engineering geologist.

11. Citations of literature and records used in the investigation, referenced aerial
    photographs interpreted (air-photo source, date and flight number, scale), referenced
    lidar images interpreted and any other sources of data and information, including
    water-well logs, personal communications, etc.
     12. Conclusions, clearly supported by adequate and substantiated data included in the
         geologic hazards study report, summarizing the characteristics of the geologic
         hazards, and addressing the potential effects of the geologic conditions and geologic
         hazards on the proposed development and occupants thereof, particularly in terms
         of risk and potential damage.

     13. Specific recommendations for additional or more detailed investigations, as may be
         required to understand or quantify a geologic hazard.

     14. An evaluation of whether mitigation measures are required, including an evaluation
         of multiple mitigation options.

     15. Specific recommendations for avoidance or mitigation of the effects of identified
         hazards, consistent with the purposes set forth in this chapter, including design or
         performance criteria for engineered mitigation measures, including all supporting
         calculations, analyses, modeling, or other methods, and assumptions. Final design
         plans and specifications for engineered mitigation must be signed and sealed in blue
         ink by a geotechnical, civil and/or structural engineer, as appropriate.

     16. Data upon which recommendations and conclusions are based shall be clearly stated
         in the geologic hazards study report.

     17. A statement that the proposed development and buildable area depicted on the site
         plan meet the requirements of the geologic hazards ordinance and the proposed
         development and buildable area are suitable for development from a geologic and
         geotechnical engineering perspective.

J.   When a submitted geologic hazards study report does not contain adequate and
     substantiated data to support the findings in the geologic hazards study report,
     additional or more detailed investigations shall be required to explain or quantify a
     particular geologic hazard or to describe how mitigation measures recommended in the
     geologic hazards study report are appropriate and adequate.



10-7-110: REVIEW OF GEOLOGIC HAZARDS STUDY REPORTS:

A. Scope: All geologic hazards study reports performed in the City will be reviewed by the
   City’s retained consultants and permanently filed with the City. The City’s consultants will
   evaluate geologic hazards study investigations and geologic hazards study reports for
   conformance with the City geologic hazards ordinance and applicable City codes and
   advise the City regarding the conformance of the consultant geologic hazards study
   investigation and geologic hazards study reports with the City geologic hazards ordinance
   and applicable City codes.

     The City consultants will not approve consultant documents or the supporting data in
   consultant documents. The City consultants will recommend the City either consider a
   consultant submittal complete or incomplete in accordance with applicable City codes
   and ordinances. The City consultants will not deviate from applicable City codes and
   ordinances.

   The City shall review any proposed land use that requires the preparation of a geologic
   hazards study report under this chapter to determine the possible risks to the safety of
   persons, property, and City infrastructure from geologic hazards.

B. Submittal: Before the consideration of any request for preliminary plat approval or site
   plan approval, the geologic hazards study report shall be submitted to the City for review.

C. Time Frame For Review: The City will complete each review in a reasonable time frame,
   not to exceed 21 working days.

D. Costs Borne By Applicant: All direct costs associated with the review of geologic hazards
   investigations shall be paid by the applicant.

E. Records: The City shall retain an electronic copy of each geologic hazards study report.

F. Standards: The City shall determine whether geologic hazards study investigations and
   geologic hazards study reports comply with all the following standards:

   1. The City geologic hazards ordinance and applicable City codes.

   2. The City Geotechnical Engineering Standards, if the geologic hazards study report
      contains geotechnical engineering recommendations.

   3. The geologic hazards study report has been prepared, signed, and sealed by a Utah-
      licensed geologist meeting the qualifications of an engineering geologist as defined
      in Section 10-7-020.

   4. The geologic hazards study report has been prepared, signed, and sealed by a Utah-
      licensed civil engineer meeting the qualifications of a geotechnical engineer as
      defined in Section 10-7-020, if the geologic hazards study report contains
      geotechnical engineering recommendations.

   5. All final geologic maps, geologic cross-sections, sketches, drawings, plans, etc.,
      prepared by, or under the supervision of the engineering geologist, and shall bear the
      signature and seal, both in blue ink, of the engineering geologist when submitted to
      the City.

   6. The proposed land use does not present an unreasonable risk to the health, safety,
      and welfare of persons or property, including buildings, storm drains, public streets,
      culinary water facilities, utilities, or critical facilities, whether off-site or on-site, or to
      the aesthetics and natural functions of the landscape, such as slopes, streams or
      other waterways, drainage, or wildlife habitat, whether off-site or on-site, because of
        the presence of geologic hazards or because of modifications to the site due to the
        proposed land use.

     7. Identified geologic hazards can be mitigated to an Acceptable and Reasonable Risk in
        a manner that will not violate applicable federal, state, or local statutes, ordinances,
        or regulations. Mitigation measures shall consider, in their design, the intended
        aesthetic functions of other governing ordinances such as the Sensitive Lands Overlay
        Zone.

     8. The geologic hazards study report contains a mitigation plan defining how the
        identified hazards or limitations will be addressed without impacting or adversely
        affecting off-site areas, if applicable.

     9. Whether mitigation measures are reasonable and practical to implement, especially
        if such measures require ongoing maintenance by property owners.

G. When a geologic hazards investigation and geologic hazards study report complies with
   the City geologic hazards ordinance and applicable City codes, the City reviewers will
   prepare a report to the City recommending the City consider the geologic hazards
   investigation and geologic hazards study report complete.

H. The City reviewers do not approve consultant documents or the supporting data in
   consultant documents. The City reviewers recommend the City either consider a
   consultant submittal complete or incomplete in accordance with applicable City codes
   and ordinances.

I.   Additional Requirements: The City may, at the City’s discretion, set other requirements
     as are necessary to mitigate any geologic hazards and to ensure the purposes of this
     chapter are met. These requirements may include, but are not limited to:

     1. Additional or more detailed investigations to understand or quantify the hazard or
        determine whether mitigation measures recommended in the geologic hazards study
        report are adequate.

     2. Field reviews of exploratory excavations.

     3. Specific mitigation requirements; establishing buildable and non-buildable areas;
        limitations on slope grading and controls on grading, or re-vegetation.

     4. Grading plans, when required, shall be prepared, signed, and sealed in blue ink by a
        licensed professional engineer. As-built grading plans, when required, shall be signed
        and sealed in blue ink by the project geotechnical engineer as well as the Utah-
        licensed civil engineer responsible for the preparation of the grading plans. Grading
        plans, when required, shall include, at a minimum, the following:

        a. Maps of existing and proposed contours with the contours labeled at a minimum
             of 10-foot intervals.

        b. Present and proposed slopes for each graded area.

        c. Existing and proposed drainage patterns.

        d. Location and depth of all proposed cuts and fills.

        e. Description of methods to be employed to achieve stabilization and compaction.

        f.   Location and capacities of proposed drainage, structures, and erosion control
             measures based on maximum runoff for a 100-year storm.

        g. Location of existing buildings or structures on or within 100 feet of the site, or
           which may be affected by proposed grading and construction.

        h. Plan for monitoring and documentation of testing, field inspections during
           grading, and reporting to the City.

     5. Installation of monitoring equipment and seasonal monitoring of surface and
        subsurface geologic conditions, including groundwater levels.

     6. Other requirements such as time schedules for completion of the mitigation and
        phasing of development.

J.   Condition of Approval: The City may also set requirements necessary to protect the
     public health, safety, welfare, and property of the citizens of the City, protect the City’s
     infrastructure and financial health, and minimize potential adverse effects of geologic
     hazards to public health, safety, welfare, and property as a condition of approval of any
     development which requires a geologic hazards study report.

K. On-Site Professional: The City may require an engineering geologist and/or geotechnical
   engineer to be on-site, at the cost of the applicant, during certain phases of construction,
   particularly during grading phases and the construction of retaining walls. For any real
   property to which development has proceeded based on a geologic hazards study or a
   geotechnical engineering report that has been accepted by the City, no final inspection
   shall be completed, or certificate of occupancy issued, or performance bond released
   until the geotechnical engineer and/or engineering geologist who signed and approved
   the geologic hazards study or a geotechnical engineering report certifies, in writing, the
   completed improvements and structures conform to the descriptions and requirements
   contained in said geologic hazards study or a geotechnical engineering report.

L. Appeal: An applicant may appeal any decision made under the provisions of this chapter
   only after the City has issued a written review of a geologic hazards study report. The
   applicant shall set forth the specific grounds or issues upon which the appeal is based.
   The appeal shall be submitted in writing to the Community Development Director within
   30 days of the issuance of the City's written review or other decision.
   The City shall assemble a professional panel of three engineering geologists and/or
   geotechnical engineers, qualified as defined in this ordinance, to serve as the appeal
   authority for any technical dispute. The appeal panel shall consist of an engineering
   geologist and/or geotechnical engineer (if applicable) designated by the City, an
   engineering geologist and/or geotechnical engineer (if applicable) designated by the
   applicant, and an engineering geologist and/or geotechnical engineer (if applicable)
   designated by the City’s and the applicant’s designated engineering geologists and/or
   geotechnical engineers (if applicable). If the City’s and the applicant’s designated
   engineering geologists and/or geotechnical engineers cannot reach a consensus on the
   third engineering geologist and/or geotechnical engineer within thirty days, the City
   shall select the third engineering geologist and/or geotechnical engineer.

   The costs of the appeal process shall be paid by the applicant. Decisions of the appeal
   panel will be binding and based on the majority decision of the appeal panel. Before
   commencement of appeal panel activities, the City will issue a scope of work outlining
   the specific purpose and goals of the appeal panel.



10-7-120: DISCLOSURE WHEN A GEOLOGIC HAZARDS STUDY REPORT IS REQUIRED:

A. Form of Disclosure: Whenever a geologic hazards study report is required under this
   chapter, the owner of the parcel shall record a notice running with the land in a form
   satisfactory to the City before the approval of any development or subdivision of such
   parcel. Disclosure shall include signing a Disclosure and Acknowledgment Form provided
   by the City, which includes:

   1. Notice the parcel is located within a City geologic hazards special study area as shown
      on the geologic hazards special study area maps or as otherwise defined in this
      chapter.

   2. Notice a geologic hazards study report was prepared and is available for public review
      in the City’s files.

B. Additional Notification on Plat: Where geologic hazards and related setbacks are
   delineated in a subdivision, the applicant shall also place additional notification on the
   plat stating the above information, prior to final approval of the plat.



10-7-130: WARNING AND DISCLAIMER:

The geologic hazards special study area maps, which may be viewed at the City online map
portal via the geologic information application, represent only those potentially hazardous
areas known to the City and should not be construed to include all possible potential hazard
areas. The City geologic hazards ordinance and the geologic hazards special study area maps
may be amended as new information becomes available. The provisions of this chapter do
not in any way assure or imply areas outside the geologic hazards special study area maps
boundaries are free from the possible adverse effects of geologic hazards. This chapter shall
not create any liability on the part of the City, any City officer, City consultants, or City
employee thereof for any damages from geologic hazards that result from reliance on this
chapter, or any administrative requirement or decision lawfully made hereunder.



10-7-140: CHANGE OF USE:

No change in use that results in the conversion of a building or structure from one not used
for human occupancy to one that is so used shall not be permitted unless the building or
structure and accompanying geologic hazards report complies with the provisions of this
chapter.



10-7-150: CONFLICTING REGULATIONS:

In cases of conflict between the provisions of existing zoning classifications, building code,
subdivision ordinance, or any other ordinance of the City and the geologic hazards ordinance
codified in this chapter, the most restrictive provision shall apply.



10-7-160: CRITICAL FACILITIES AND RISK CATEGORIES III AND IV STRUCTURES:

Critical Facilities means essential, hazardous, special occupancy facilities, and Risk Categories
III and IV as defined in the currently adopted International Building Code, and lifelines such
as major utility, transportation, and communication facilities and their connections to critical
facilities.

In the event of failure, the following buildings and structures represent a substantial hazard
to human life:

   1. Those where more than 300 people congregate in one area.

   2. Elementary schools, secondary schools, or daycare facilities with an occupancy
      greater than 250.

   3.   Colleges or adult education facilities with an occupancy greater than 500.

   4. Health-care facilities with an occupancy greater than 50 or more resident patients but
      not having surgery or emergency treatment facilities.

   5. Jails and detention facilities.
    6. Any structure with an occupancy greater than 1,000.

    7. Power-generating stations, water treatment or storage for potable water, wastewater
       treatment facilities, and other public utility facilities.

    8. Those facilities containing toxic or explosive substances that would be dangerous to
       the public if released.

The following buildings and structures are designated as essential facilities, including but not
limited to:

    1. Hospitals and other care facilities having surgery or emergency treatment facilities.

    2. Fire, rescue, and police stations and emergency vehicle garages and fueling facilities.

    3. Designated emergency shelters.

    4. Designated emergency preparedness, communications, operation centers, and other
       facilities required for emergency response.

    5. Power-generating stations and other public utility facilities required as emergency
       backup facilities for facilities and structures.

    6. Structures containing highly toxic materials as defined by the most recently adopted
       version of the International Building Code.

    7. Aviation control towers, air traffic centers, and emergency aircraft hangars.

    8. Buildings and other structures having critical national defense functions.

    9. Water treatment and storage facilities which are required to maintain water pressure
       for fire suppression.

…

TITLE 17
LAND DEVELOPMENT

…

17-4-030: FINAL PLAT; PREPARATION AND REQUIRED INFORMATION:

…

S. The final plat shall show geologic hazards setbacks and geologic-restricted areas as
defined in Section 10-7-20 of this code.

…
TITLE 18
LAND DISTURBANCE

…

18-2-010: LAND DISTURBANCE PERMIT REQUIRED:

…

B. Manufacturing, Commercial, Or Institutional Properties:

    1. Except for preliminary geological and geotechnical activities as described in section
       9-19-070 Section 10-7-070 of this code, no land disturbance permit shall be issued
       for any site or project in a manufacturing, commercial or institutional zone within
       the slope stability study area, as shown on the Geologic Hazards Study Area Map,
       which may be viewed at the City online map portal via the geologic information
       application, of the Draper City geologic hazards ordinance plate A-3 zone or
       sensitive lands overlay until and unless a final site plan or subdivision plat has been
       approved and recorded for the site or project.

    2. Land disturbance permit applications to improve, construct, disturb or otherwise
       modify land in manufacturing, commercial or institutional zones not subject to
       either the slope stability study area, as shown on the Geologic Hazards Study Area
       Map, which may be viewed at the City online map portal via the geologic
       information application, of the Draper City geologic hazards ordinance plate A-3 or a
       sensitive lands overlay zoning, where the modifications do not require site plan or
       subdivision plat approval, as determined by the zoning administrator and city
       engineer, and where the cuts and fills do not exceed thirteen feet (13'), shall be
       reviewed and processed in accordance with the provisions of this title by the city
       engineer.

C. Residential And Agricultural Properties:

    1. Except for preliminary geological and geotechnical activities described in section 9-
       19-070 Section 10-7-070 of this code, or for city engineer approved placement of
       excavated material generated by other city approved applications, no land
       disturbance permit shall be issued for any site or project in a residential or
       agricultural zone within the slope stability study area, as shown on the Geologic
       Hazards Study Area Map, which may be viewed at the City online map portal via the
       geologic information application, of the Draper City geologic hazards ordinance
       plate A-3 zone until and unless a final site plan or subdivision plat has been
       approved and recorded for the site or project.

    2. Land disturbance permit applications to improve, construct, disturb or otherwise
       modify land in residential and agricultural zones not subject to the slope stability
       study area, as shown on the Geologic Hazards Study Area Map, which may be
   viewed at the City online map portal via the geologic information application of the
   Draper City geologic hazards ordinance plate A-3, a sensitive lands overlay zoning,
   and where the modifications do not require site plan or subdivision plat approval, as
   determined by the zoning administrator and city engineer, shall be reviewed and
   processed in accordance with the provisions of this title by the city engineer. In this
   particular circumstance, applicants may not submit a subdivision plat or site plan
   application for at least three (3) months from the date of approval of the land
   disturbance permit.

3. Land disturbance permit applications to improve, construct, disturb or otherwise
   modify land in residential and agricultural zones subject to the slope stability study
   area, as shown on the Geologic Hazards Study Area Map, which may be viewed at
   the City online map portal via the geologic information application, of the Draper
   City geologic hazards ordinance plate A-3 where the modifications do not require
   site plan or subdivision plat approval, as determined by the zoning administrator
   and city engineer, shall be denied unless the disturbance is associated with the
   completion of a condition of subdivision plat approval previously rendered by the
   Draper City council. In this particular circumstance, applications shall satisfy all
   provisions of this code.

   …
