MEMO
To: Planning Commission
From: Maryann Pickering, AICP
Date: 2025-11-13
Re: Public Hearing: Huber Land Use and Zoning Map Amendment Requests (Legislative
Action)


Comments:


This application is a request for approval of a Land Use Map Amendment and Zoning Map
Amendment for an approximate 1.38 acres located on the west side of 700 West at
approximately 11730 S. 700 West. The property is currently zoned RA1. The applicant is
requesting that the applications be approved to rezone the rear portion of the property
(19,601 sq. ft.) to be sold to the developer of the subdivision to the west. The subject
parcel is currently developed with a single-family residence that was built in 1979.


Land Use Amendment
Findings for Approval:
  1. The proposed land use map amendment is consistent with goals, objectives, and
     policies of the city's general plan.
  2. The proposed land use map amendment is harmonious with the overall character
     of existing development in the vicinity of the subject property.
  3. The proposed land use map amendment will not adversely affect adjacent property.
  4. There are adequate facilities and services intended to serve the subject property,
     including, but not limited to, roadways, parks and recreation facilities, police and fire
     protection, schools, stormwater drainage systems, water supplies, and wastewater
     and refuse collection.
  5. The proposed land use map amendment complies with DCMC Section 9-2-020(F).
  6. The legislative body may adopt any amendment to the general plan land use map
     that the legislative body considers appropriate.

Findings for Denial:
  1. The proposed land use map amendment is not consistent with goals, objectives,
     and policies of the city's general plan.
  2. The proposed land use map amendment is not harmonious with the overall
     character of existing development in the vicinity of the subject property.
  3. The proposed land use map amendment will adversely affect adjacent property.
  4. The legislative body may reject any amendment to the general plan land use map
     that the legislative body considers appropriate.

Zoning Map Amendment:
Findings for Approval:
  1. The proposed zoning map amendment is consistent with goals, objectives, and
     policies of the city's general plan.
  2. The proposed zoning map amendment is harmonious with the overall character of
     existing development in the vicinity of the subject property.
  3. The proposed zoning map amendment is consistent with the standards of any
     applicable overlay zone.
  4. The proposed zoning map amendment will not adversely affect adjacent property.
  5. There are adequate facilities and services intended to serve the subject property,
     including, but not limited to, roadways, parks and recreation facilities, police and fire
     protection, schools, stormwater drainage systems, water supplies, and wastewater
     and refuse collection.

Findings for Denial:
  1. The proposed zoning map amendment is not consistent with goals, objectives, and
     policies of the city's general plan.
  2. The proposed zoning map amendment is not harmonious with the overall character
     of existing development in the vicinity of the subject property.
  3. The proposed zoning map amendment will adversely affect adjacent property.


ATTACHMENTS:

PC Staff Report (Huber).pdf
