                                Development Review Committee
                                    1020 East Pioneer Road
                                      Draper, UT 84020
                                          March 17, 2025

To:                 Draper City Planning Commission
                    Business Date: March 27, 2025

From:               Development Review Committee

Prepared By: Nick Whittaker, MCMP, Planner II
             Planning Division
             Community Development Department
             801-576-6522, Nick.Whittaker@draperutah.gov

Re:      Ashok Tamang I-ADU– Deviation Request
         Application No.: 2025-0034-VAR
         Applicants:       Ashok Tamang
         Project Location: 14964 S. Canyon Pointe Rd.
         Current Zoning: RM (Multiple Dwelling Unit Residential) Zone, and C-3 (General
                           Commercial District) Zone. Hidden Canyon Estates, Mercer
                           Mountain Estates, and Lakeview Heights Master Development
                           Agreement
         Acreage:          Approximately 0.20 acres (8,712 ft2)
         Request:          Request for approval of a Deviation from strict compliance with
                           the geographical restrictions for Internal Accessory Dwelling Units
                           (I-ADU’s).



BACKGROUND AND SUMMARY

This application is a request for approval of a Deviation from strict compliance with the
geographical restrictions for I-ADU’s for approximately 0.20 acres located on the west side
of Canyon Pointe Rd. at approximately 14964 S. Canyon Pointe Rd. (Exhibit B and C). The
property is currently zoned RM and C-3. The applicant is requesting the Deviation be
approved to allow for the creation of an I-ADU in the basement of the existing single-family
dwelling.

The subject property is Lot 104 of the Hidden Canyon Estates – Phase 1A Subdivision. The
development of the property is subject to the Hidden Canyon Estates, Mercer Mountain



Tamang I-ADU                                                          App. # 2025-0034-VAR
Deviation Request                               1
Estates, and Lakeview Heights Master Development Agreement. A single-family dwelling
with an unfinished basement was built on the property in 2018. The property is located
within a mapped area of the City where I-ADU’s are prohibited (Exhibit F). The applicant has
submitted separate applications for the creation of the I-ADU in the basement of the
existing single-family dwelling which are pending approval of this deviation request.


ANALYSIS

General Plan and Zoning.

 Table 1              General Plan and Zoning Designations                       Exhibit
 Existing Land Use   Residential Medium Density                               Exhibit D
 Current Zoning      C-3 & RM                                                 Exhibit E
 Adjacent Zoning
    East             C-3 & RM
    West             C-3
    North            C-3 & RM
    South            C-3
The Residential Medium Density land use designation is characterized as follows:




Tamang I-ADU                                                        App. # 2025-0034-VAR
Deviation Request                            2
According to the 1999 Draper City Municipal Code (DCMC) Section 9-4-030 the purpose of
the RM zone is to “provide areas for low-to-medium residential density with the
opportunity for varied housing styles and character, providing for a maximum density of up
to twelve (12) units per acre for medium to high density residential unit projects subject to
conditional-use permit procedures and conditions for this type of use and based on
minimum development guidelines adopted by the City.”

According to the 1999 Draper City Municipal Code (DCMC) Section 9-4-040 the purpose of
the C-3 zone is to, “provide areas, in appropriate locations, where a combination of
business, retail commercial, entertainment, and related activities may be established,
maintained and protected. Regulations for this district are designed to provide a suitable
environment for those commercial and service uses which are vital to economic life.”

Site Plan Layout. A site plan, elevation photos, and floor plans for the proposed I-ADU are
provided as Exhibits G, H and I. The entrance to the I-ADU will be located in the rear yard
on the west side of the residence utilizing an existing basement patio door. The proposed
unit is separated from the primary structure by a locked door located at the first-floor entry
to the basement staircase. Staff reviewed the proposed plans submitted for the creation of
the I-ADU and has determined that they will comply with all other applicable requirements
of DCMC chapter 9-31 outside of the geographical restrictions for which this deviation is
being sought.

The property is approximately 8,712 ft2 in size which surpasses the 6,000 ft2 minimum
needed to satisfy the size requirement for approval of the deviation as described in section
9-31-055(A) of the DCMC. The subject property does not contain a Detached Accessory
Dwelling Unit (D-ADU).

Parking. The property currently has two (2) additional off-street parking stalls designated
for use by the occupants of the proposed I-ADU as shown on the site plan (Exhibit G).
These stalls comply with the minimum parking requirements of ordinance and the criteria
for approval of the Deviation. The first stall is located in front of the third car garage and
the second stall is an angled stall located on an existing concrete pad located to the south
of the third car garage driveway.

Staff notes that the parking pad was added in 2021 and is not compliant with the driveway
width standards found in section 9-10-075(A)(1) in the DCMC which states, “The width of
the primary driveway shall not exceed thirty feet (30') in width…”. The parking pad expands
the width of the driveway to thirty-five feet (35’) which is five feet (5’) greater than the
maximum allowed width. The applicant has acknowledged this and has issued a letter to
Draper City wherein the applicant agrees to bring the driveway width into compliance prior
to the issuance of the I-ADU License. A copy of the letter has been included in Exhibit J of
this report.




Tamang I-ADU                                                          App. # 2025-0034-VAR
Deviation Request                              3
Criteria For Approval.
The criteria for review and potential approval of a Deviation request for an I-ADU is found
in Section 9-31-055 of the DCMC. This section depicts the standard of review for such
requests as:

    A. Deviation Authorized: A deviation from strict compliance with the prohibition of I-
       ADUs on properties located within the areas identified on the I-ADU map in Exhibit A
       of this chapter may be approved by the planning commission if all of the following
       criteria are met and the planning commission finds that:
       1. The lot or parcel on which the primary dwelling is located is at least six thousand
           square feet (6,000 ft²);
       2. No D-ADU exists on the property;
       3. The proposed I-ADU meets all of the requirements of sections 9-31-030 and 9-
           31-045, including other applicable requirements of this chapter; and
       4. At least two (2) parking stalls meeting the requirements of 9-31-045(B)(2) are
           provided for use by occupants of the I-ADU.

The requirements of Section 9-31-30 of the DCMC are:

    A. An ADU shall not be rented or leased or offered for rent or lease unless the owner
        of record possesses a valid ADU Permit.
    B. D-ADUs shall not be permitted for any property containing an I-ADU. As a condition
        of approval for an application for a new D-ADU the owner of record shall agree to
        waive any right to create an I-ADU on the same property unless the D-ADU is first
        removed from the property. This condition shall be included in the recorded notice
        of accessory dwelling unit required by section 9-31-060 of this chapter.
    C. Primary dwellings are not permitted to contain more than one I-ADU. I-ADUs are not
        permitted within a D-ADU or other detached structure.
    D. I-ADUs shall not be permitted in single-family residential dwellings located on lots
        or parcels that are six-thousand square feet (6,000 ft²) or less in size.
    E. I-ADUs are not permitted within mobile homes.
    F. I-ADUs are not permitted within a primary dwelling unit serviced by a failing septic
        system.
    G. Separate utility meters may not be installed for any I-ADU or D-ADU.
    H. An I-ADU shall not be rented or leased for a time period of less than thirty (30)
        consecutive days. Only one rental agreement or lease shall be in effect at any one
        time.
    I. No ADU or dwelling associated with an ADU may be separately rented, leased, hired
        or loaned unless the owner of record occupies either the dwelling or the ADU as
        their primary residence.
    J. An ADU Permit issued by the zoning administrator shall be required for the
        development and use of any ADU and shall only be issued once all regulations and
        standards of this section and sections 9-31-040 or 9-31-045 as applicable to the



Tamang I-ADU                                                         App. # 2025-0034-VAR
Deviation Request                             4
         specific type of ADU are met. The ADU Permit shall be subject to the application and
         review procedures, including the annual renewal requirements and procedures of
         section 9-5-210. (Ord. 1132, 2-17-2015; amd. Ord. 1499, 9-21-2021; Ord. 1626, 11-12-
         2024)

The requirements of Section 9-31-45 of the DCMC are:

    A. Existing Structure: An I-ADU shall be contained within the existing footprint of the
       primary dwelling. Second kitchens within the primary dwelling's footprint are not
       considered an I-ADU and are subject to requirements found in chapter 30 of this
       title. An existing second kitchen located within a primary dwelling can be converted
       as part of an application for the creation of an I-ADU in compliance with all other
       standards for I-ADUs listed in this chapter.
    B. Conditions: An I-ADU shall comply with the applicable requirements of section 9-31-
       030 and with all of the following conditions:
       1. Only one I-ADU shall be allowed per lot or parcel.
       2. At least one additional parking stall above the minimum required for the primary
            dwelling shall be provided on site and be reserved for exclusive use by
            occupants of the I-ADU. The parking stall(s) provided for use of the occupants of
            the I-ADU may not be located in tandem with parking stalls designed to serve the
            primary dwelling and shall be accessible from the street by a driveway.
            Driveways must conform to all requirements of section 9-10-075 and other
            applicable requirements of this title. Parking stalls shall be constructed of
            concrete or asphalt and shall comply with the applicable requirements of
            sections 9-25-070 and 9-25-080.
       3. If an I-ADU is created within a garage or carport attached to the primary
            dwelling, the parking spaces contained within the garage or carport that are
            removed shall be replaced in accordance with current parking and access
            standards.
       4. The I-ADU shall comply with all applicable building, health and fire codes in
            effect at the time the I-ADU is constructed, created or subsequently remodeled.
            The owner of record shall be responsible to ensure that all required building
            permits and other permits are obtained for the creation of an I-ADU.
       5. In accommodating an I-ADU within the primary dwelling, the exterior of the
            primary dwelling may not be changed or altered in a manner that would alter
            the appearance of the primary dwelling from that of a single-family dwelling.
            (Ord. 1499, 9-21-2021)

The proposed site plan, proposed floor plans, and elevation photos provided with this
Deviation application have been reviewed by staff and have been determined to comply
with the criteria necessary for approval of a deviation from strict compliance with the
geographical restrictions for I-ADU’s. As part of the separate application for the ADU
permit, the applicant will still be required to obtain the necessary building permits for



Tamang I-ADU                                                         App. # 2025-0034-VAR
Deviation Request                              5
finishing the basement to create the I-ADU, and to complete the necessary modifications to
the concrete parking pad to bring the driveway width at the property line into compliance
with ordinance requirements.



REVIEWS

Planning Division Review. The Draper City Planning Division has completed their review of
the Deviation Request. Comments from this division, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Engineering and Public Works Divisions Review. The Draper City Engineering and Public
Works Divisions have completed their reviews of the Deviation Request. Comments from
these divisions, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Building Division Review. The Draper City Building Division has completed their review of
the Deviation Request. Comments from this division, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Fire Division Review. The Draper City Fire Marshal has completed his review of the
Deviation Request. Comments from this division, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Noticing. Notice has been properly issued in the manner outlined in the City and State
Codes.



STAFF RECOMMENDATION

Staff finds that the application complies with the DCMC and recommends that the Planning
Commission review the request, and approve the application based on the criteria and
findings for approval, as listed within the staff report.



MODEL MOTIONS

Sample Motion for Approval – I move that we approve the Deviation request from strict
compliance with the geographical restrictions for I-ADU’s, as requested by Ashok Tamang,
application 2025-0034-VAR based on the following findings and the criteria for approval as
listed in the Staff Report dated March 17, 2025.

Findings for Approval:

    1. The lot or parcel on which the primary dwelling is located is at least six thousand
       square feet (6,000 ft²);
    2. No D-ADU exists on the property;



Tamang I-ADU                                                         App. # 2025-0034-VAR
Deviation Request                             6
    3. The proposed I-ADU can meet all of the requirements of sections 9-31-030 and 9-31-
       045, including other applicable requirements of this chapter before issuance of an
       ADU permit; and
    4. At least two (2) parking stalls meeting the requirements of 9-31-045(B)(2) are
       provided for use by occupants of the I-ADU.




Tamang I-ADU                                                      App. # 2025-0034-VAR
Deviation Request                           7
              DEVELOPMENT REVIEW COMMITTEE ACKNOWLEDGEMENT


We, the undersigned, as duly appointed members of the Draper City Development Review
Committee, do acknowledge that the application which provides the subject for this staff
report has been reviewed by the Committee and has been found to be appropriate for
review by the Draper City Planning Commission and/or City Council.

                  Digitaiy sigrvoC by Bncn Maxlield                                 OigrtafV        by Todd A
                                                                                    Draodf
                  ON:C>US.                                                          ON.C.US.
                  E-brien.maxtiold@draperutab gov,
 Brien Maxfield   0«Dfaper, OU-Public Works -                      Todd A. Drapsr
                                                                                    CN-Tood A. Dracc'
                  Engineering, CN>8ncn Maxficid                                     O3!o   J02S.C3.ZO
                  Date: 2025.03.20 08:59:25-06'00‘
                                                                                    1l-3«a7«<tO-

Draper City Public Works Department                              Draper City Planning Division
                                                                                                                (/



                         bTQOM by Den QycU«y


 Don Buckley
                   ON C»U$, S»4enbge»i«rOMb*'   0>D   '&iy Fev
                           Q}




Draper City Fire Department                                          er City Legal g                        n




                   Digitally signed Oy Matthew Symos
                   DN: C>US, E>mall.syines@draperutah.gov,
Matthew Symes      0>Draper City Corp.. CN-Mallhew Symes
                   Dale: 2025.03.20 10:4230^600'



Draper City Building Division
                                     EXHIBIT A
                                DEPARTMENT REVIEWS

REVIEWS ARE NOT MEANT TO BE AN ALL-INCLUSIVE LIST OF POSSIBLE COMMENTS OR
CONDITIONS.



Planning Division Review.
   1. No additional Comments.



Engineering and Public Works Divisions Review.
   1. No additional Comments.



Building Division Review.
   1. No additional comments.



Fire Division Review.
   1. No additional comments.
  EXHIBIT B
VICINITY MAP
 EXHIBIT C
AERIEL MAP
  EXHIBIT D
LAND USE MAP
 EXHIBIT E
ZONING MAP
       EXHIBIT F
I-ADU RESTRICTION MAP
EXHIBIT G
SITE PLAN
35'
         EXHIBIT H
EXTERIOR ELEVATION PHOTOS
  EXHIBIT I
FLOOR PLANS
        EXHIBIT J
APPLICANT REQUEST LETTERS
7th February 2025



To Whom It May Concern



Subject: Deviation Request



Dear Sir/Madam,

My full name is Ashok Tamang and I’m the owner of property located at 14964 S Canyon Pointe Rd.,
Draper, UT 84020.

I’m requesting a deviation for I-ADU. My property lot is in compliance with deviation code 9-31-055. The
lot is slightly above nine thousand square feet (9,100 ft^2). There is a concrete driveway with 3 indoor
car garage and an additional space for RV parking. No D-ADU exists on the property.

Thank you for your consideration.



Yours sincerely,

Ashok Tamang
