                                  Development Review Committee
                                      1020 East Pioneer Road
                                        Draper, UT 84020
                                                 January 29, 2025

To:              Draper City Planning Commission
                 Business Date: February 13, 2025

From:            Development Review Committee

Prepared By: Nick Whittaker, MCMP, Planner II
             Planning Division
             Community Development Department
             801-576-6522, Nick.Whittaker@draperutah.gov

Re:     DeRose Plumbing, LLC. – Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit Request
        Application No.: 2024-0368-USE
        Applicant:        Nathan DeRose, representing DeRose Plumbing, LLC.
        Project Location: 12206 S. Hilton Head Way
        Current Zoning: R3 (Single-Family Residential, 13,000 ft2 min. lot size) Zone
        Acreage:          0.43 Acres (Approximately 18,731 ft2)
        Request:          Request for approval of a Home Occupation Conditional Use
                          Permit in the R3 zone for an office operating a plumbing business
                          as a Home Occupation.



BACKGROUND AND SUMMARY

This application is a request for approval of a Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit for
approximately 0.43 acres located on the west side of Hilton Head Way, at approximately
12206 S. Hilton Head Way (Exhibit C & D). The property is currently zoned R3. The applicant
is requesting that a Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit be approved for an office
operating a plumbing business.

The property is Lot 72 of The Masters Sub at Draper Phase III. The single-family dwelling on
the property was built in 1998. The business is operated from a designated room located in
the dwelling measuring approximately 132 ft2 (Exhibits G & H).




DeRose Plumbing                                                     App. # 2024-0368-USE
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit Request          1
ANALYSIS

General Plan and Zoning.

 Table 1                   General Plan and Zoning Designations                 Exhibit
 Existing Land Use         Residential Medium Density                           Exhibit E
 Current Zoning            R3                                                   Exhibit F
 Adjacent Zoning
    East                   R3
    West                   R3
    North                  R3
    South                  R3

The Residential Medium Density land use designation is characterized as follows:




According to Draper City Municipal Code (DCMC) Section 9-8-020 the purpose of the R3
zone is to “permit medium density residential development without special mitigation



DeRose Plumbing                                                    App. # 2024-0368-USE
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit Request   2
requirements. This zone is intended to provide incentives to foster residential development
with little impact on its surroundings and on municipal services, and to generally preserve
the semirural character called for in the density element of the general plan.”

Site Plan Layout. The subject property is an interior lot which is accessed along the west
side of Hilton Head Way. The driveway is designed to accommodate an attached three (3)
car garage and also includes a concrete pad which runs along the south side of the garage
and continues into the side yard. (Exhibits F & G)

Home Occupation. The DCMC Section 9-34-040 outlines development standards applicable
to all home occupations. Those criteria, along with information specific to the subject
request, are as follows:

        A. Ownership: The home occupation shall be owned and operated by a person who
             resides in the dwelling where the home occupation is located. Such person shall
             be the primary provider of the labor, work, or service provided in the home
             occupation.

             •   The applicant has indicated that they are they live at the subject property,
                 they own DeRose Plumbing, LLC. and they are the primary provider of labor
                 for the home occupation (Exhibit H).

        B. Business License: A business license for the home occupation shall be obtained
             from and continually maintained with the city pursuant to title 6, chapter 11 of
             this code.

             •   The applicant has indicated that they have applied for a business license
                 which is pending approval of this Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit
                 request (Exhibit H).

        C. Employees: Members of the family of the owner who reside in the dwelling may
             be employed in the home occupation. Nonfamily or nonresident employees
             shall be limited to one person.

             •   The applicant has indicated that there are no other employees (Exhibit H).

        D. Inspection: All facilities shall comply with fire, building, plumbing, electrical and
             all other city, county, state and federal codes. Inspections during reasonable
             hours by city officials may occur as necessary to assure compliance with
             regulations.

             •   The applicant has indicated that they intend to be compliant (Exhibit H).




DeRose Plumbing                                                         App. # 2024-0368-USE
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit Request   3
        E. Inventory: No stock in trade, inventory, or other merchandise to exceed two
             hundred fifty (250) square feet shall be kept on the premises. No outside storage
             is allowed.

             •   The applicant indicates that some supplies and materials are kept in the
                 garage but provides no details to determine if the business complies with the
                 square footage requirements in their statements (Exhibit H).
             •   In the absence of a request for deviation from the standard, staff
                 recommends that if approved, conditions be included requiring compliance
                 with this standard.

        F. Modification Of Structures Or Yards: There shall be no visible evidence from the
             exterior of a dwelling that it is being used for any other purpose than that of a
             dwelling. No activities shall be carried on outside the dwelling in the yard for the
             benefit of or incidental to the home occupation. No front yard area shall be
             altered to provide parking required for a home occupation.

             •   The applicant is requesting a deviation from this standard to allow for
                 storage of two (2) work related trailers on the existing concrete pad located
                 south of the garage and behind the front wall plane of the dwelling (Exhibits
                 F, G, & H).
             •   The applicant also requests allowance for one (1) business vehicle to be
                 parked on the driveway in front of the three (3) car garage.
             •   Pavement, for parking the trailers, was added to the property south of the
                 garage sometime between 2020 and 2021. An addition to the driveway apron
                 was added without permits sometime between 2023 and 2024. The
                 modifications made to the driveway width are in violation of ordinance
                 requirements pertaining to maximum driveway width of thirty (30) feet
                 (measured at the front property line). If the Conditional Use Permit is
                 approved it should be on condition that the existing violation of the zoning
                 ordinance pertaining to the width of the driveway is corrected before
                 issuance of the conditional use permit, or a business license.

        G. Nuisance: Tools, items, equipment, or activities conducted within the dwelling
             which is offensive or noxious by reason of the emission of odor, smoke, gas,
             vibration, magnetic interference, or noise shall be prohibited.

             •   The applicant has indicated that some noise may be present when supplies
                 are delivered to the home. However, the applicant indicates that this noise is
                 mitigated by only accepting deliveries between 8:00 AM and 5:00 PM,
                 Monday through Friday (Exhibit H).




DeRose Plumbing                                                          App. # 2024-0368-USE
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit Request   4
        H. Secondary Use: The home occupation shall be clearly incidental and secondary
             to the primary use of the dwelling for residential purposes. The home
             occupation shall not disrupt the normal residential character of the
             neighborhood in which the residence is located. Not more than twenty five
             percent (25%) of the dwelling unit shall be used for the home occupation.

             •   The applicant has provided a floor plan which indicates that the designated
                 office space is approximately 132 ft2 , which equates to approximately 3.45%
                 of the dwelling unit area (Exhibit G).

        I.   Signs: All signage in a residential area must comply with chapter 26, "Signs", of
                this title.

             •   The applicant has indicated that there will be no signage for the business on
                 the subject property (Exhibit H).

        J.   Traffic, Parking, And Access: No home occupation use shall generate pedestrian,
             parking, or vehicular traffic in excess of that customarily associated with the
             zone in which the use is located. All parking shall be provided and maintained on
             site with adequate provision for drop off traffic.

             •   The applicant has indicated that they occasionally have deliveries at the
                 property and seldomly contractors come to the home to drop off plans
                 (Exhibit H).

        K. Vehicles: Other than the business owner's personal transportation, there shall
             be no vehicles or equipment on the property associated with the home
             occupation which would not normally be found at a residence. No signage for
             the home occupation shall be allowed on vehicles.

             •   The applicant is requesting a deviation from this standard to permit two (2)
                 business vehicles and two (2) trailers used by the business to be stored at the
                 residence (Exhibit H).
             •   One (1) car will be parked inside the three (3) car garage and the other will be
                 parked out front on the driveway.
             •   The two (2) trailers would be stored on a concrete pad located in the side
                 yard and behind the front wall of the dwelling (Exhibit H).

        L. Yards: Yards surrounding the dwelling and accessory buildings shall not be used
             for any activities or storage of any materials associated with the home
             occupation.




DeRose Plumbing                                                         App. # 2024-0368-USE
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit Request   5
             •   The applicant is requesting a deviation from this standard to allow for one (1)
                 business vehicle to park on the driveway in the front yard, and two (2) trailers
                 to be parked on a concrete pad located in the side yard (Exhibits F, G, & H).

        M. Customers: No customers allowed. Children accessing a limited daycare or
           limited preschool facility shall not be considered customers.

             •   The applicant is requesting a deviation from this standard to allow customers
                 to come to the property to drop off plans on rare occasions (Exhibit H).
             •   No additional details were provided by the applicant concerning customers
                 coming to the home.

        N. Utility Demand: The home occupation shall not cause a demand for public
             utilities in excess of that necessarily and customarily provided for residential
             uses.

             •   The applicant has indicated that the home occupation will not cause
                 additional demand for public utilities in excess of that customarily provided
                 for residential use (Exhibit H).

        O. Main Structure: The home occupations shall be conducted, located, and
           contained within the primary structure on the property.

             •   The applicant is requesting that in addition to the office space located in the
                 primary structure, that the use of yard areas be permitted for the storage of
                 one (1) business vehicle in the front yard and two (2) trailers in the side yard
                 (Exhibits F, G & H).

        P. Single-Family And Multiple-Family Dwellings: Home occupations listed as
             permitted or conditional within this title may be permitted in a single-family or a
             multiple-family dwelling, subject to the standards found within this section and
             section 9-34-060 of this chapter. Businesses within multiple-family dwellings
             shall provide an approval letter from the respective homeowners' association, or
             management company in the case of apartments, if the business proposes any
             employees, customers or business vehicles.

             •   The subject property is an owner-occupied single-family dwelling and a letter
                 from an HOA is not required.
             •   Requested deviations from the standards in DCMC Section 9-34-040 have
                 been addressed in other sections as allowed by DCMC Section 9-34-060.

        Q. Licensure: Any home occupation involving childcare shall comply with all
             applicable state and local laws and regulations regarding residential childcare,



DeRose Plumbing                                                          App. # 2024-0368-USE
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit Request   6
             including, but not limited to, provisions of the Utah child care licensing act, as set
             forth in Utah Code Annotated section 26-39-101 et seq., as amended, and the
             residential certificate childcare standards as set forth in the Utah administrative
             code section R430-50-1 et seq., as amended. In addition, cottage food
             production operations are regulated and inspected by the Utah department of
             agriculture. Any food related home occupation under their jurisdiction must
             comply with these regulations.

             •   The business is not a childcare facility or a cottage food production
                 operation.

Criteria For Approval.
The criteria for review and potential approval of a conditional use permit request is found
in Section 9-5-080(E) of the DCMC. This section depicts the standard of review for such
requests as:

        E. Approval Standards: The standards of this subsection shall apply to the issuance
            of a conditional use permit:
         1. A conditional use permit may be issued for a use to be located within a zone
            where the particular conditional use is allowed by the use regulations of the
            zone.
         2. Reasonable conditions may be imposed as necessary to substantially mitigate
            reasonably anticipated detrimental effects of the proposed use. These
            conditions may include conditions concerning use, construction, character,
            location, landscaping, screening, parking, hours of operation, and other matters
            relating to the purposes and objectives of this section. Such conditions shall be
            expressly set forth in the motion authorizing the conditional use permit.
         3. If the reasonably anticipated detrimental effects of a proposed conditional use
            cannot be substantially mitigated by the imposition of reasonable conditions to
            achieve compliance with applicable standards, the conditional use may be
            denied.
         4. The following factors shall be reviewed and considered in determining whether a
            conditional use permit application should be approved, approved with
            conditions, or denied because reasonable conditions cannot be imposed to
            achieve compliance with applicable standards:
              a. The harmony and compliance of the proposed use with the objectives and
                 requirements of the city's general plan and this title;
              b. The suitability of the specific property for the proposed use;
              c. Whether the proposed use or facility may be injurious to potential or existing
                 development in the vicinity;
              d. The economic impact of the proposed facility or use on the surrounding
                 area;
              e. The aesthetic impact of the proposed facility or use on the surrounding area;



DeRose Plumbing                                                          App. # 2024-0368-USE
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit Request   7
              f. The safeguards proposed or provided to ensure adequate utilities,
                 transportation access, drainage, parking, loading space, lighting, screening,
                 landscaping, open space, fire protection, and pedestrian and vehicular
                 circulation;
              g. The safeguards provided or proposed to prevent noxious or offensive
                 emissions such as noise, glare, dust, pollutants and odor from the proposed
                 facility or use; and
              h. The impact of the proposed facility or use on the health, safety, and welfare
                 of the city, the area, and persons owning or leasing property in the area.
          5. The planning commission may request additional information as may be
             reasonably needed to determine whether the requirements of this subsection E
             can be met.

Staff believes that the potential negative impacts of a home occupation of the stated
nature in operation at the subject property would be the potential for noise, increased
traffic (pedestrian and vehicular), and the parking of vehicles on the street. Though the
applicant acknowledges the potential for noise from deliveries, the applicant also proposed
mitigation in that all deliveries take place between 8:00 AM and 5:00 PM (Exhibit H).

Negative impacts could occur from the increased traffic created by customers dropping off
plans at the property. The applicant has not demonstrated how such impacts are mitigated
other than claims that it is rare for customers to come to the home to drop off plans No
parking for customers has been designated on the site plan. To mitigate such impacts staff
has included in the proposed conditions for approval the following:
   1. Those customers coming to the home are by appointment only, between the hours
       of 8:00 am and 5:00 pm, with only one (1) customer permitted at the property at a
       time.
   2. That customers be instructed to park off-street, and on the far south side of the
       property so as to not block access to parking within the attached garage.

Negative impacts related to the storing of two (2) business related vehicles and two (2)
business related trailers at the property are mitigated by the following as proposed by the
applicant:
   1. Having the trailers stored on the concrete pad in the side yard and behind the front
       wall plane of the building;
   2. Storing one (1) of the two (2) business vehicles inside the garage, and the other on
       the driveway in front of the garage where the other business vehicle is stored.

Staff has included additional recommended conditions of approval within the staff
recommendations section of this report.



REVIEWS



DeRose Plumbing                                                       App. # 2024-0368-USE
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit Request   8
Planning Division Review. The Draper City Planning Division has completed their review of
the Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit submission. Comments from this division, if
any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Engineering and Public Works Divisions Review. The Draper City Engineering and Public
Works Divisions have completed their reviews of the Home Occupation Conditional Use
Permit submission. Comments from these divisions, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Building Division Review. The Draper City Building Division has completed their review of
the Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit submission. Comments from this division, if
any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Fire Division Review. The Draper City Fire Marshal has completed his review of the Home
Occupation Conditional Use Permit submission. Comments from this division, if any, can
be found in Exhibit A.

Noticing. Notice has been properly issued in the manner outlined in the City and State
Codes.



STAFF RECOMMENDATION

Staff recommends that the Planning Commission review the request based on the findings
listed below and the criteria for approval, or denial, as listed within the staff report. The
Planning Commission should also hear from the applicant and receive public comment
prior to making a decision.

If the Planning Commission decides to approve the request, staff recommends they include
the following conditions of approval:

         1.      That the existing zoning violation regarding the maximum driveway width be
                 corrected before the final issuance of the Conditional Use Permit, or the
                 issuance of a business license for the home occupation.
         2.      That a Draper City business license shall be obtained prior to operating and
                 shall be maintained by the business owner for as long as the business
                 remains in operation.
         3.      That only two (2) business related trailers shall be permitted and they shall
                 only be parked on the existing concrete pad located in the side yard and
                 behind the front wall plane of the residence, as illustrated on the approved
                 site plan.
         4.      That only two (2) business related vehicles shall be parked at the property.
                 One (1) shall be parked in the garage, and the other shall be parked on the



DeRose Plumbing                                                       App. # 2024-0368-USE
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit Request   9
                 driveway behind the one in the garage so that access to the two (2) required
                 parking stalls for the residential use is not impeded.
        5.       Customers coming to the home shall be by appointment only, between the
                 hours of 8:00 am and 5:00 pm, with only one (1) customer permitted at the
                 property at a time.
        6.       Customers shall be instructed to park off-street, and on the far south side of
                 the property so as to not block access to parking within the attached garage.
        7.       That no more than 250 ft2 of garage space shall be used for the storage of
                 business-related inventory and the storage may not interfere with the
                 parking of a vehicle in any of the three (3) garage stalls.



MODEL MOTIONS AND FINDINGS

Sample Motion for Approval – I move that we approve the Home Occupation Conditional
Use Permit, as requested by Nathan DeRose, representing DeRose Plumbing, LLC.
application 2024-0368-USE, based on the following findings for approval and subject to the
conditions listed in the Staff Report dated January 29, 2025.

Findings for approval:

        1. The proposal complies with the standards for approval found in DCMC Section 9-
           5-080(E) and potential negative impacts are mitigated through the imposition of
           reasonable conditions.



I move that we approve the Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit, as requested by
Nathan DeRose, representing DeRose Plumbing, LLC. application 2024-0368-USE, based on
the findings for approval and subject to the conditions for approval listed in the Staff
Report dated January 29, 2025, and as modified by the following additional findings or
conditions:

         1. (List any additional findings…)
         2. (List any additional conditions…)

Sample Motion for Denial – I move that we deny the Home Occupation Conditional Use
Permit, as requested by Nathan DeRose, representing DeRose Plumbing, LLC. application
2024-0368-USE, based on the following findings for denial listed in the Staff Report dated
January 29, 2025.

Findings for denial:




DeRose Plumbing                                                        App. # 2024-0368-USE
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit Request   10
        1. The proposal does not comply with all standards for approval found in DCMC
           Section 9-5-080(E) and potential negative impacts are not able to be sufficiently
           mitigated through the imposition of reasonable conditions.




DeRose Plumbing                                                      App. # 2024-0368-USE
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit Request   11
                     DEVELOPMENT REVIEW COMMITTEE ACKNOWLEDGEMENT


We, the undersigned, as duly appointed members of the Draper City Development Review
Committee, do acknowledge that the application which provides the subject for this staff
report has been reviewed by the Committee and has been found to be appropriate for
review by the Draper City Planning Commission and/or City Council.


                          DigHatty signed by Br«n MaMfieU                                           CHgitaKy »gnea by Todd A
                          ON:C«US,                                                                  Draper
                          E«br»en.maxiieid^ drapenjtah.gov.                                         DNC-US.
  Brien Maxfield O-Draper, 00-Pubiic Works ●                                       Todd A. Draper
                          Engineenr>g, CN<^Bnert Ma>;lie1d
                          Date: 2025.02.07 10X)537-07'00'                                           CN-’loMA. DtafMr
                                                                                                    DK*.202S0206
                                                                              zr     zr:   1                           —:—:

Draper City Public Works Department                                           Draper CiW Planning Division
                                                                                               <1

                            Oigtiaiiv signed by Don Buckley
                            ON. C-US. E-don.buckleyi@draper.ul us, 0-Draper

Don Buckley                 OtyF^re Department. OU>Firo Marshal, CN'-Oon
                            BucMey
                                  'Xi'x. no   1 g o 09



Draper City Fire Department                                                   Draper Cit/Legal Couhsel

                            Digitally $igrtod by Maithow Symes
                            DN: C«US, Esman symos^raperutah qqv.
  Matthew Symes O-Draper City Corp., CN-Matim>w Symos
                            Dato: 2025.02 05 1€:2$:2I0700*




Draper City Building Division
                                      EXHIBIT A
                                 DEPARTMENT REVIEWS

REVIEWS ARE NOT MEANT TO BE AN ALL INCLUSIVE LIST OF POSSIBLE COMMENTS OR
CONDITIONS.



Planning Division Review.

       1.     No additional comments.

Engineering and Public Works Divisions Review.

       1.     The present and future requirements for transportation, traffic, water, sewer,
              and other utilities for the subject site do not appear to be detrimentally
              impacted as described. Given the location and proposed use, the use is not
              anticipated to generate a significant impact to water, sewer, or other
              potential utilities.

       2.     The number of trips generated by the home owner as the applicant and only
              employee and no customer(s) visiting the residence will not have a
              detrimental impact to traffic in the area. The capacity of the fronting public
              street is design for typical neighborhood traffic and based no customers,
              does not represent a significant impact to the street capacity. Based on the
              statements of the applicant about no customers and no employees, no
              significant impact to traffic is anticipated with the proposed use.

       3.     The applicant indicated that all needed parking is available in the existing
              driveway and garage. The subject home is located on a public street where
              currently on-street parking is permitted. All proposed parking should be
              within the garage or driveway with the associated trailers parked on a
              concrete pad behind the front of the house. Based on the information from
              the applicant, no significant impact to parking is anticipated with the
              proposed use.

       4.     The proposed use does not appear detrimental to the health, safety, or
              general welfare of the persons residing or working in the vicinity, or injurious
              to the property or improvements in the vicinity.

Building Division Review.

       1.     No additional comments.
Fire Division Review.

       1.     No additional comments.
  EXHIBIT B
VICINITY MAP
EXHIBIT C
ARIEL MAP
  EXHIBIT D
LAND USE MAP
 EXHIBIT E
ZONING MAP
EXHIBIT F
SITE PLAN
 EXHIBIT G
FLOOR PLAN
      EXHIBIT H
APPLICANT STATEMENTS
