                                 Development Review Committee
                                     1020 East Pioneer Road
                                       Draper, UT 84020
                                              May 13, 2025

To:             Draper City Planning Commission
                Business Date: May 22, 2025

From:           Development Review Committee

Prepared By: Jennifer Jastremsky, AICP, Community Development Director / Zoning
             Administrator
             Planning Division
             Community Development Department
             801-576-6328, jennifer.jastremsky@draperutah.gov

Re:     Kimballs Junction – Zoning Map Amendment, Land Use Map Amendment, and
        Development Agreement Request
        Application No.: 2025-0092-MA, 2025-0091-MA, 2025-0090-DA
        Applicant:         Mike Winters, representing Edge Homes
        Project Location: Approximately 600 East Kimballs Ln.
        Current Zoning: RA1 (Residential Agricultural), RA2 (Residential Agricultural) Zone
        Acreage:           20 Acres (Approximately 871,200 ft2)
        Request:           Request for approval to amend the Zoning Map designations on
                           the property from the RA1 and RA2 zones to the RM2 (Multi-
                           family Residential) zone, amend the Land Use Map from the
                           Residential Low/Medium Density designation to the Residential
                           High Density designation, and approve a density range for the
                           property of 25-27 dwelling units per acre with a Development
                           Agreement.


BACKGROUND AND SUMMARY

This application is a request for approval of a Zoning Map Amendment, Land Use Map
Amendment, and Development Agreement for approximately 20 acres located on the
south side of Kimballs Ln (11800 S), at approximately 600 E Kimballs Ln. (Exhibit C & D). The
property is currently zoned RA1 and RA2. The applicant is seeking approval to allow the
property to be developed at a future date with multi-family housing in density range of 25-
27 dwelling units per acre.




Kimballs Junction                                                  App. # 2025-0092-MA, 2025-0091-MA
Zoning and Land Use Map Amendment, Development Agreement Request           2025-0090-DA                1
The application includes five properties. Two of the properties contain no structures and
have been used for agricultural purposes. The other three contain single family homes built
in 1947, 1952, and 2005.



ANALYSIS

General Plan and Zoning.

 Table 1                  General Plan and Zoning Designations                                Exhibit
 Existing Land Use        Residential Low/Medium Density                                      Exhibit E
 Current Zoning           RA1, RA2                                                            Exhibit F
 Proposed Use             Multi-family Residential
 Adjacent Zoning
    East                  RA1
    West                  R3 (Single-family Residential), A5 (Agricultural)
    North                 RA1, RM2
    South                 RA1, RA2

The Residential Low/Medium Density land use designation is characterized as follows:




Kimballs Junction                                                  App. # 2025-0092-MA, 2025-0091-MA
Zoning and Land Use Map Amendment, Development Agreement Request           2025-0090-DA                   2
The proposed Residential High Density land use designation is characterized as follows:




According to Draper City Municipal Code (DCMC) Section 9-8-020 the purpose of the RA1
and RA2 zone is to “foster low density development with little impact on its surroundings
and municipal services; to generally preserve the character of the City’s semi-rural areas;
and to promote and preserve conditions favorable to large-lot family life, including the
keeping of limited numbers of animals and fowl. The predominant use in these zones is
intended to be detached single-family dwellings, protected from encroachment by
commercial and industrial uses.”

According to DCMC Section 9-8-020 the purpose of the requested RM2 zone is to “permit
well designed apartments, townhomes, twin homes, and condominiums at relatively high



Kimballs Junction                                                  App. # 2025-0092-MA, 2025-0091-MA
Zoning and Land Use Map Amendment, Development Agreement Request           2025-0090-DA                3
densities that are appropriately buffered from and compatible with surrounding land
uses.”

The requested RM2 zone is compatible with the requested Residential High Density land
use designation. It allows for a variety of multi-family housing types with up to 12 dwelling
units per acre.

Development Agreement. The proposed Development Agreement concentrates on overall
density allotments rather than concept site plan design. The request is to allow a minimum
of 25 dwelling unit per acre and a maximum of 27 dwelling units per acre on the property.
As the site is approximately 20 acres, that would allow for a range of 500 units to 540 units.
The agreement does not include a concept plan, and instead proposes that the site
planning, project layout, architectural design, and other aspects of the development be
completed through collaborative efforts between the City and the applicant during the
normal site plan and subdivision process. The agreement also recognizes the ongoing
Station Area Planning process around the Kimballs TRAX Station that includes this property.
The proposed Development Agreement has been attached as Exhibit G to this report.

Criteria For Approval.

Zoning Map Amendment
A Text Amendment is a matter committed to the legislative discretion of the City Council
and is not controlled by any one standard. However, in making a recommendation to the
City Council, the Planning Commission should consider the following factors in Section 9-5-
060(E) of the DCMC:

        1. Map Amendments:
            a. Whether the proposed amendment is consistent with goals, objectives and
               policies of the city's general plan;
            b. Whether the proposed amendment is harmonious with the overall character
               of existing development in the vicinity of the subject property;
            c. Whether the proposed amendment is consistent with the standards of any
               applicable overlay zone;
            d. The extent to which the proposed amendment may adversely affect adjacent
               property; and
            e. The adequacy of facilities and services intended to serve the subject
               property, including, but not limited to, roadways, parks and recreation
               facilities, police and fire protection, schools, stormwater drainage systems,
               water supplies, and wastewater and refuse collection.




Kimballs Junction                                                  App. # 2025-0092-MA, 2025-0091-MA
Zoning and Land Use Map Amendment, Development Agreement Request           2025-0090-DA                4
Land Use Map Amendments
The Land Use Map amendment request falls under DCMC Section 9-2-020(F) because the
Land Use Map is part of Draper City’s General Plan. That section lists the following criteria
for a General Plan amendment as:

        Plan Amendment: All plan amendments shall be in accordance with Utah Code
        Annotated 10-9a-404, as amended and, unless requested by the city's legislative
        body, shall follow the procedures as outlined in Draper City Municipal Code 9-5-
        060(D).” That section is noted as follows:

        D.      Procedure: Zoning text and map amendments shall be considered and
                processed as provided in this subsection:
                1.    A complete application shall be submitted to the office of the zoning
                      administrator in a form established by the administrator along with
                      any fee established by the city’s schedule of fees. The application
                      shall include at least the following information:
                      a.      The name, address and telephone number of the applicant
                              and the applicant’s agent, if any.
                      b.      The name and address of every person or company the
                              applicant represents.
                      c.      The requested amendment and reasons supporting the
                              request.
                      d.      If the proposed amendment requires a change in the zoning
                              map, the application shall include:
                              (1)      An accurate property map showing present and
                                       proposed zoning classifications;
                              (2)      All abutting properties showing present zoning
                                       classifications; and
                              (3)      An accurate legal description and an approximate
                                       common address of the area proposed to be rezoned.
                      e.      If the proposed amendment requires a change in the text of
                              this title, the application shall include chapter and section
                              references and a draft of the proposed text.
                2.    After the application is determined to be complete, the zoning
                      administrator shall prepare a staff report evaluating the application.
                3.    The planning commission shall schedule and hold a public hearing on
                      the application as provided in sections 9-5-040 and 9-5-045 of this
                      chapter. Following the public meeting, the planning commission shall
                      recommend approval, approval with modifications, or denial of the
                      proposed amendment and shall submit its recommendation to the
                      city council for review and decision.
                4.    The city council shall schedule and hold a public hearing on the
                      application as provided in sections 9-5-040 and 9-5-045 of this



Kimballs Junction                                                  App. # 2025-0092-MA, 2025-0091-MA
Zoning and Land Use Map Amendment, Development Agreement Request           2025-0090-DA                5
                         chapter. Following the public hearing, the city council may approve,
                         approve with modifications, or deny the proposed amendment.

Development Agreements
DCMC does not contain criteria for review and potential approval of a Development
Agreement. It does, however; contain a list of items that are required as part of an
Agreement and limitations to a Development Agreement, as found in DCMC Section 9-5-
200(C) and (D). This section depicts the required materials for such requests as:

        C.   Procedure: All development agreements, upon proper execution, shall be
             recorded with the respective County Recorder's Office, shall run with the land,
             and shall be binding on all successors in the ownership of the affected
             property. A development agreement shall contain, at a minimum, the
             following:
              1. A legal description of the land subject to the development agreement.
              2. The restrictions or conditions to be attached to the property including
                  development standards and the provision of public facilities.
              3. The configuration of the project as shown on a project master plan.
              4. A statement of the benefits and value the development agreement will
                  have for the City as a whole, including, but not limited to, assurances of
                  design standards, dedication and improvement of open space, parks,
                  trails, amenities, or infrastructure such as public rights-of-way or utilities.
              5. The time frames for performance by the parties.
              6. A description of the various City approvals required before the
                  commencement of construction and other procedures that will be
                  required after approval of the development agreement.
              7. Provisions for enforcement of the terms and conditions of the
                  development agreement.
              8. Provisions for making amendments to the development agreement.
              9. The time limitation of the agreement.
              10. Such other terms as may be proposed and agreed to between the City
                  and developer or subdivider.
        D. Limitations:
              1. A development agreement under this section may not:
                  a. Limit the City’s authority in the future to:
                      i. Enact a land use regulation; or
                      ii. Take any action allowed under Utah Code Annotated Section 10-8-
                           84, as amended;
                  b. Require the City to change the zoning designation of an area of land
                      within the City in the future; or
                  c. Contain a term that conflicts with, or is different from, a standard set
                      forth in an existing land use regulation that governs the area subject
                      to the development agreement, unless the city council approves the



Kimballs Junction                                                  App. # 2025-0092-MA, 2025-0091-MA
Zoning and Land Use Map Amendment, Development Agreement Request           2025-0090-DA                6
                       development agreement in accordance with the same procedures for
                       enacting a land use regulation under Utah Code Annotated Section
                       10-9a-502, including a review and recommendation from the planning
                       commission and a public hearing.
                2. The City may not require a development agreement as the only option
                   for developing land within the City.
                3. To the extent that a development agreement does not specifically
                   address a matter or concern related to land use or development, the
                   matter or concern is governed by;
                   a. Utah Code Annotated 10-9a-530, as amended; and
                   b. Applicable land use regulations of this Title.


REVIEWS

Planning Division Review. The Draper City Planning Division has completed their review of
the Zoning Map Amendment, Land Use Map Amendment, and Development Agreement
submission. Comments from this division, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Engineering and Public Works Divisions Review. The Draper City Engineering and Public
Works Divisions have completed their reviews of the Zoning Map Amendment, Land Use
Map Amendment, and Development Agreement submission. Comments from these
divisions, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Building Division Review. The Draper City Building Division has completed their review of
the Zoning Map Amendment, Land Use Map Amendment, and Development Agreement
submission. Comments from this division, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Fire Division Review. The Draper City Fire Marshal has completed his review of the Zoning
Map Amendment, Land Use Map Amendment, and Development Agreement submission.
Comments from this division, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Legal Division Review. The Draper City Attorney has completed his review of the Zoning
Map Amendment, Land Use Map Amendment, and Development Agreement
submission. Comments from this division, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Parks & Trails Committee Review. The Draper City Parks and Trails Committee has
completed their review of the Zoning Map Amendment, Land Use Map Amendment, and
Development Agreement submission. Comments from this division, if any, can be found in
Exhibit A.

Noticing. Notice has been properly issued in the manner outlined in the City and State
Codes.



Kimballs Junction                                                  App. # 2025-0092-MA, 2025-0091-MA
Zoning and Land Use Map Amendment, Development Agreement Request           2025-0090-DA                7
STAFF RECOMMENDATION

Staff recommends that the Planning Commission review the requests based on the
findings and criteria for approval, or denial as listed within the staff report. The Planning
Commission should also review the requests, hear from the applicant, and receive public
comment prior to making a decision.



MODEL MOTIONS AND FINDINGS

Zoning Map Amendment
Sample Motion for Approval – I move that we forward a positive recommendation to the
City Council for the Zoning Map Amendment, as requested by Mike Winters, representing
Edge Homes for rezone from RA1 and RA2 to RM2, application 2025-0092-MA, based on the
following findings for approval listed in the Staff Report dated May 13, 2025.

Findings for approval:
        1.      The zoning map amendment is consistent with goals, objectives and policies
                of the city's general plan.
        2.      The zoning map amendment is consistent with the standards of any
                applicable overlay zone.
        3.      Adequate facilities and services will be available to serve the subject
                property, including, but not limited to, roadways, parks and recreation
                facilities, police and fire protection, schools, stormwater drainage systems,
                water supplies, and wastewater and refuse collection.
        4.      The zoning map amendment will not materially affect the existing Station
                Area Planning efforts underway with respect to the Utah State Code
                requirements of 10-9a-403.1.

Sample Motion for Modified Approval– I move that we forward a positive recommendation
to the City Council for the Zoning Map Amendment, as requested by Mike Winters,
representing Edge Homes for rezone from RA1 and RA2 to RM2, application 2025-0092-MA,
based on the findings for approval listed in the Staff Report dated May 13, 2025 together
with the following additional or modified findings:

Additional or Modified Findings:
       1.     (List any additional or modified findings …)

Sample Motion for Denial – I move that we forward a negative recommendation to the City
Council for the Zoning Map Amendment, as requested by Mike Winters, representing Edge
Homes for rezone from RA1 and RA2 to RM2, application 2025-0092-MA, based on the
following findings for denial listed in the Staff Report dated May 13, 2025.




Kimballs Junction                                                  App. # 2025-0092-MA, 2025-0091-MA
Zoning and Land Use Map Amendment, Development Agreement Request           2025-0090-DA                8
Findings for denial:
        1.      The proposed zoning map amendment is not consistent with goals,
                objectives and policies of the city's general plan, particularly as the Kimballs
                Station Area Plan is not complete and still going through the master planning
                process outlined in Utah State Code 10-9a-403.1.
        2.      The zoning map amendment is not harmonious with the overall character of
                existing development in the vicinity of the subject property.
        3.      The proposed zoning map amendment will adversely affect adjacent
                property.


Land Use Map Amendment
Sample Motion for Approval – I move that we forward a positive recommendation to the
City Council for the Land Use Map Amendment, as requested by Mike Winters,
representing Edge Homes to amend the designation from Residential Low/Medium Density
to Residential High Density, application 2025-0091-MA, based on the following findings for
approval listed in the Staff Report dated May 13, 2025.

Findings for approval:
        1.      The land use map amendment is appropriate and complies with the
                requirements of DCMC Section 9-2-020(F) and Utah State Code 10-9a-404.

Sample Motion for Modified Approval– I move that we forward a positive recommendation
to the City Council for the Land Use Map Amendment, as requested by Mike Winters,
representing Edge Homes to amend the designation from Residential Low/Medium Density
to Residential High Density, application 2025-0091-MA, based on the findings for approval
listed in the Staff Report dated May 13, 2025 together with the following additional or
modified findings:

Additional or Modified Findings:
       1.     (List any additional or modified findings …)

Sample Motion for Denial – I move that we forward a negative recommendation to the City
Council for the Land Use Map Amendment, as requested by Mike Winters, representing
Edge Homes to amend the designation from Residential Low/Medium Density to
Residential High Density, application 2025-0091-MA, based on the following findings for
denial listed in the Staff Report dated May 13, 2025:

Findings for denial:
        1.      The land use map amendment does not comply with DCMC Section 9-2-
                020(F) and Utah State Code 10-9a-4.




Kimballs Junction                                                  App. # 2025-0092-MA, 2025-0091-MA
Zoning and Land Use Map Amendment, Development Agreement Request           2025-0090-DA                9
Development Agreement
Sample Motion for Approval – I move that we forward a positive recommendation to the
City Council for the Development Agreement, as requested by Mike Winters, representing
Edge Homes Kimball Junction density allocation, application 2025-0090-DA, based on the
following findings for approval listed in the Staff Report dated May 13, 2025.

Findings for approval:
        1.      The development agreement complies with DCMC Section 9-5-200(C) and (D)
                and provides for a density range on the property while still allowing the City
                and applicant to work together to create a site plan that best meets the
                interests of the community and applicant.

Sample Motion for Modified Approval– I move that we forward a positive recommendation
to the City Council for the Development Agreement, as requested by Mike Winters,
representing Edge Homes Kimball Junction density allocation, application 2025-0090-DA,
based on the findings for approval listed in the Staff Report dated May 13, 2025 together
with the following additional or modified findings:

Additional or Modified Findings:
       1.     (List any additional or modified findings …)

Sample Motion for Denial – I move that we forward a negative recommendation to the City
Council for the Development Agreement, as requested by Mike Winters, representing Edge
Homes Kimball Junction density allocation, application 2025-0090-DA, based on the
following findings for denial listed in the Staff Report dated May 13, 2025:

Findings for denial:
        1.      Approval of the development agreement will materially affect the existing
                Station Area Planning efforts underway. The master planning process as
                outlined in Utah State Code 10-9a-4.403.1 provides for additional public and
                stakeholder involvement and is the best way to determine appropriate
                densities for the property.




Kimballs Junction                                                  App. # 2025-0092-MA, 2025-0091-MA
Zoning and Land Use Map Amendment, Development Agreement Request           2025-0090-DA                10
Kimballs Junction                                                  App. # 2025-0092-MA, 2025-0091-MA
Zoning and Land Use Map Amendment, Development Agreement Request           2025-0090-DA                11
                                      EXHIBIT A
                                 DEPARTMENT REVIEWS

REVIEWS ARE NOT MEANT TO BE AN ALL INCLUSIVE LIST OF POSSIBLE COMMENTS OR
CONDITIONS.

Engineering and Public Works Divisions Review.

   1. The adequacy of facilities and services intended to serve the subject property, including
      but not limited to roadways, parks and recreation facilities, police and fire protection,
      schools, storm water drainage systems, water supplies, and waste water and refuse
      collection;

      Other than noted below, we are not aware of any inadequacies of the facilities intended
      to serve this property.

          a. The change in zone from residential / agricultural one acre (RA1) to a
             residential / multifamily (RM2) zone with densities between 25 to 27 units per
             acre, represents a significant increase in traffic based on the density potential
             of the proposed zone. The existing zone would permit up to 21 single family
             dwellings, with approximately 40 peak hour trips and 189 daily trips. The
             proposed zone would increase traffic based on proposed densities of up to
             500 residential dwelling units, as a combined mixture of townhomes,
             apartments, and condominiums. The approximate number of trips generated
             by the proposed density equals 225 peak hour trips and 2,500 daily trips. That
             being said, the fronting street is 11800 South which is classified as a residential
             minor collector. There are peak-time commuter congestion on 700 East, an
             arterial street near the subject site, and school traffic in the area with the
             Skaggs Center just to the west of the subject parcels on 11800 South. The size
             of the subject parcel and the potential number of trips generated from the
             subject area would require mitigation to traffic impacts, where mitigation is
             typically contemplated around 100 peak hour trips. However, this area is
             adjacent to mass transit and is part of the area being analyzed for a station
             area plan, as required by state code. The impacts and quantified reduction in
             trips that would allow an increase in densities adjacent to the mass transit
             without a corresponding increase in traffic impacts have not been provided to
             city with this application. This would be determined through a traffic impact
             study (TIS) for the subject site, addressing the projected reduction in vehicle
             trips being replaced by mass transit thereby allowing an increase in density
             without the corresponding increase impacting the existing traffic loads on
             adjacent streets. The project mitigation improvements will be a requirement
             of any site development or subdivision approval by the city. Those
             improvements will be completed as part of the development construction.
   There are incomplete public frontage improvements existing on the subject
   site and the missing improvements, park strips and sidewalks, will be required
   of any project.

b. Connectivity with the subject area to public rights-of-way are established based
   the city’s access management plan. Access to and from the subject site would be
   on both 11800 South, a minor residential collector, and 11900 South, a dead-end
   public local residential street connecting to 700 East, an arterial street.
   Development on the subject parcel will be required to have access to both fronting
   public streets due to the limited access locations available. Accesses are be
   required to meet Draper City standards as outlined in our Master Transportation
   Plan. Access is evaluated at the time of a site plan or subdivision application and
   will follow the requirements of the TIS.

c. There are minimal existing storm drainage facilities fronting the subject parcels
   that are feasible to connect to from the subject parcels with a significant portion
   of potential development without existing drainage facilities fronting the site.
   Therefore a significant amount of storm runoff will need to be retained onsite or
   a connection to city infrastructure would to be constructed offsite requiring a
   pioneering agreement to extend the storm drainage to a permissible connection
   point. Any future site drainage will be required to be addressed with any
   subdivision or site plan application and shall comply with the rules and regulations
   pertaining to site drainage and the provisions of the development requirements
   within the Draper City Municipal Code.

d. Sanitary sewer facilities will be provided by Jordan Basin Improvement District.
   Any subdivision or site plan application will require a commitment to serve from
   the sewer district that facilities are adequate to provide service for the proposed
   uses.

e. Drinking water is provided by WaterPro to the subject parcel. Any subdivision or
   site plan application will require a commitment to serve from WaterPro that
   facilities are adequate to provide service for the proposed uses.
                                       EXHIBIT B
                                   LEGAL DESCRIPTION

The Property includes the following parcels identified by Salt Lake County Tax Parcel
                                          Number:

Salt Lake County Tax Parcel 28-30-227-014
Salt Lake County Tax Parcel 28-30-226-001
Salt Lake County Tax Parcel 28-30-226-011
Salt Lake County Tax Parcel 28-30-226-012
Salt Lake County Tax Parcel 28-30-227-006

Parcel A
Beginning at a point that lies South 89°57'06" East 1329.668 feet and South 33.000 feet
from the North Quarter Corner of Section 30, Township 3 South, Range 1 East, Salt Lake
Base and Meridian (Basis of bearings is North 89°58'40" West 2640.490' - Being the North
Line of the Northwest Quarter of said Section 30, T3S, R1E, SLB&M) and running thence
South 89°57'06" East 153.081 feet; thence South 61°12'31" East 124.134 feet; thence South
47°31'02" East 176.740 feet; thence South 52°54'28" East 103.920 feet; thence South
00°02'15" West 40.100 feet; thence South 51°05'45" East 170.910 feet; thence South
00°57'15" West 17.114 feet; thence South 51°05'45" East 49.520 feet; thence South
38°39'45" East 223.110 feet; thence South 00°02'15" West 329.126 feet; thence North
89°52'30" West 186.600 feet; thence North 89°52'32" West 599.408 feet; thence North
00°01'51" East 939.231 feet to the point of beginning.
Property contains 13.053 acres.

Also and together with the following described tract of land:

Parcel B
Beginning at a point that lies South 89°57'06" East 2015.691 feet and South 33.000 feet
from the North Quarter Corner of Section 30, Township 3 South, Range 1 East, Salt Lake
Base and Meridian (Basis of bearings is North 89°58'40" West 2640.490' - Being the North
Line of the Northwest Quarter of said Section 30, T3S, R1E, SLB&M) and running thence
South 89°57'06" East 209.241 feet to a point on a 373.000 foot radius non tangent curve to
the right, (radius bears South 11°49'05" West, Chord: South 39°27'35" East 466.657 feet);
thence along the arc of said curve 504.169 feet through a central angle of 77°26'40"; thence
South 00°44'16" East 77.650 feet to a point on a 305.510 foot radius non tangent curve to
the left, (radius bears South 88°48'07" East, Chord: South 27°28'07" East 293.114 feet);
thence along the arc of said curve 305.710 feet through a central angle of 57°20'00"; thence
South 00°07'30" West 28.250 feet; thence North 89°57'06" West 375.511 feet; thence North
38°53'57" West 327.470 feet; thence North 38°53'57" West 98.030 feet; thence North
00°06'30" East 394.970 feet to the point of beginning.
Property contains 7.126 acres.
  EXHIBIT C
VICINITY MAP
 EXHIBIT D
AERIAL MAP
  EXHIBIT E
LAND USE MAP
 EXHIBIT F
ZONING MAP
       EXHIBIT G
DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT
 DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT
          FOR
    KIMBALLS JUNCTION
(a Planned Community in Draper City, Utah)



              May __ , 2025




             Draper City Contract #          Page 1 of 21
WHEN RECORDED, RETURN TO:

Draper City Recorder
1020 E Pioneer Rd.
Draper, UT 84020


                               DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT
                                        FOR
                                  KIMBALLS JUNCTION

        THIS DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT FOR KIMBALLS JUNCTION (this
“Agreement”) is made and entered into as of the xx day of month, 2025, by and between Draper
City, a Utah municipality (the “City”) and EDGE Homes Utah, LLC, a Utah limited liability
company (“Developer”).

                                           RECITALS

       A. The capitalized terms used in this Agreement and in these Recitals are defined in
Section 1.2 below.

       B. Developer owns and is developing the Property.

        C. Developer and the City desire that the Property be developed in a unified and
consistent fashion.

        D. The Parties acknowledge that development of the Property pursuant to this Agreement
will result in significant planning and economic benefits to the City and its residents by, among
other things, requiring orderly development of the Property as a planned community known as
“Kimballs Junction,” promoting home ownership in the City, and increasing property tax and other
revenues to the City based on improvements to be constructed on the Property.

        E. The Parties desire to enter into this Agreement to specify the rights and responsibilities
of Developer to develop the Property as expressed in this Agreement and the rights and
responsibilities of the City to allow and regulate such development pursuant to the requirements
of this Agreement.

       F. The Parties understand and intend that this Agreement is a “development agreement”
within the meaning of, and entered into pursuant to the terms of, Utah Code Ann. §10-9a-101
(2018) et seq.

        G. The Property, comprising approximately 20 acres as described in Exhibit A, is located
within the Kimballs Lane Station Area Plan, which encompasses the area within a one-half mile
radius of the Kimballs Lane fixed guideway public transit station, (TRAX), an existing fixed
guideway public transit station as defined by Utah Code 10-9a-403.1(1)(c)(2025). As such, the
Property is subject to the requirements of Utah Code Ann. § 10-9a-403.1, which mandates that the
City develop and adopt a station area plan by December 31, 2025, to promote objectives including
increased housing affordability, sustainable environmental conditions, enhanced access to
opportunities, and improved transportation connectivity. The City will seek certification of the
                                          Draper City Contract #                            Page 2 of 21
station area plan from the applicable metropolitan planning organization and public transit district,
as required by Utah Code Ann. § 10-9a-403.1(10).

        H. This Agreement conforms with the intent of the City’s General Plan and the City’s
Zoning ordinances. The intent of this Agreement is to provide vested density rights for
development of the Property with the understanding that site planning, project layout,
architectural design, and other aspects of the development will be completed through
collaborative efforts between the City and Developer during the Development Application
process.

       NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the mutual covenants contained herein, and
other good and valuable consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of which is hereby
acknowledged, the City and Developer hereby agree to the following:

                                              TERMS

   1. Incorporation of Recitals and Exhibits/ Definitions.

       1.1. Incorporation. The foregoing Recitals and the attached Exhibits “A” - “B” are
       hereby incorporated into this Agreement.

       1.2. Definitions. As used in this Agreement, the words and phrases specified below shall
       have the following meanings:

           1.2.1. Act means the Land Use, Development, and Management Act, Utah Code Ann.
           § 10-9a-101 (2018), et seq.

           1.2.2. Administrator means the person designated by the City as the Administrator
           of this Agreement.

           1.2.3. Applicant means a person or entity submitting a Development Application.

           1.2.4. Buildout means the completion of all of the development on the entire Project
           in accordance with the approved plans.

           1.2.5. City means Draper City, a Utah municipality.

           1.2.6. City Consultants means those outside consultants employed by the City in
           various specialized disciplines such as traffic, hydrology or drainage for reviewing
           certain aspects of the development of the Project.

           1.2.7. City’s Future Laws means the ordinances, policies, standards, and procedures
           which may be in effect as of a particular time in the future when a Development
           Application is submitted for part of the Project and which may or may not be
           applicable to the Development Application depending upon the provisions of this
           Agreement.



                                          Draper City Contract #                            Page 3 of 21
1.2.8. City’s Vested Laws means the ordinances, policies, standards and procedures
of the City in effect as of the date of this Agreement, a digital copy of which is
attached as Exhibit “B.”

1.2.9. Council means the elected City Council of the City.

1.2.10. Default means a material breach of this Agreement as specified herein.

1.2.11. Denied means a formal denial issued by the final decision-making body of the
City for a particular type of Development Application but does not include review
comments or “redlines” by City staff.

1.2.12. Development means the development of a portion of the Property pursuant to
an approved Development Application.

1.2.13. Development Application means an application to the City for development
of a portion of the Project including a Subdivision or any other permit, certificate or
other authorization from the City required for development of the Project.

1.2.14. Development Report means a report containing the information specified in
Section 2.4.

1.2.15. Final Plat means the recordable map or other graphical representation of land
prepared in accordance with Utah Code Ann. § 10-9a-603 (2021), or any successor
provision, and approved by the City, effectuating a Subdivision of any portion of the
Project.

1.2.16. Developer means Edge Homes Utah, LLC, and its assignees or transferees as
permitted by this Agreement.

1.2.17. Maximum Residential Units means the development on the Property of no
more than twenty-seven (27) Residential Dwelling Units per acre of land included in
the Project.

1.2.18. Notice means any notice to or from any Party to this Agreement that is either
required or permitted to be given to another party.

1.2.19. Outsource or Outsourcing means the process of the City contracting with
City Consultants or paying overtime to City employees to provide technical support
in the review and approval of the various aspects of a Development Application as is
more fully set out in this Agreement.

1.2.20. Party/Parties means, in the singular, Developer or the City; in the plural
Developer and the City.

1.2.21. Plan means the conceptual layout for Residential Dwelling Units and Public
Infrastructure for the Project, to be agreed upon through good faith cooperation and

                              Draper City Contract #                           Page 4 of 21
      collaborative efforts of Developer and the City in connection with the Development
      Application process following the City’s approval of this Agreement.

      1.2.22. Planning Commission means the City’s Planning Commission.

      1.2.23. Project means the total residential development to be constructed on the
      Property pursuant to this Agreement with the associated public and private facilities,
      and all of the other aspects approved as part of this Agreement. The Project may be
      expanded to include additional land in accordance with Section 2.6 below.

      1.2.24. Property means the real property owned by and to be developed by
      Developer comprised of approximately 20 acres and more fully described in Exhibit
      "A.” The Property may be expanded to include additional land as set forth in Section
      2.6 below.

      1.2.25. Public Infrastructure means those elements of infrastructure that are planned
      to be dedicated to the City as a condition of the approval of a Development
      Application.

      1.2.26. Residential Dwelling Unit means a structure or portion thereof designed and
      intended for use as residences commonly referred to as townhomes, condominiums,
      or other residential dwellings approved by the City that are for sale to private
      individuals or families.

      1.2.27. Subdivision means the division of any portion of the Project into developable
      lots pursuant to State Law and/or the Zoning and Subdivision Ordinances.

      1.2.28. Subdivision Application means the application to create a Subdivision.

      1.2.29. Zoning means the RM2 Zone for the Property adopted by the City and
      applied to the Property in accordance with this Agreement.

      1.2.30. Zoning Ordinance means the City’s Land Use and Development Ordinance
      adopted pursuant to the Act that was in effect as of the date of this Agreement as a
      part of the City’s Vested Laws.

2. Development of the Project.

   2.1. Compliance with this Agreement. Development of the Project shall be in
   accordance with the City’s Vested Laws, the City’s Future Laws (to the extent that they
   are applicable as specified in this Agreement), the Plan, and this Agreement.

   2.2. Maximum Residential Units. At Buildout of the Project, Developer shall be entitled
   to develop no less than 25 units per acre and no more than 27 units per acre, measured by
   dividing the total number of units in the Project by the total acreage of the Project.

   2.3. Limitation and No Guarantee. Developer acknowledges that the development of
   the Maximum Residential Units and every other aspect of the Plan requires that each
   Development Application comply with the City’s Vested Laws including, without
                                    Draper City Contract #                           Page 5 of 21
limitation, the City’s geologic hazards requirements.

2.4. Station Area Plan Objectives. The Project promotes the objectives outlined in Utah
Code 10-9a-403.1(7) (a) (2025) Station Area Plan Requirements. The following
provisions implement these objectives through specific actions consistent with Utah Code
10-9a-403.1(7) (b).

   2.4.1. Increasing the availability and affordability of housing, including
   moderate income housing. The Project provides for-sale residential units, including
   at least thirty (30) workforce housing units as described in Section 2.4.5, targeting
   moderate income households such as City employees, school teachers, and first
   responders. No units will be sold to institutional investors, ensuring homeownership
   opportunities for individuals and families. The Project aligns with the moderate
   income housing element of the City’s general plan and promotes affordable costs of
   living by reducing development costs through zoning exceptions (Section 2.5),
   consistent with Utah Code Ann. § 10-9a-403.1(7)(b)(i).

   2.4.2. Promote sustainable environmental conditions. Development will reduce the
   use of water demands by using native and low-use plantings and having the clustering
   of landscaping to make watering more efficient.

   2.4.3. Enhance access to opportunities. The Project’s location near the Lone Peak
   Hospital and ER, the Cinemark Draper and XD, the Juan Diego campus, and within
   the station area, facilitates connections to healthcare, entertainment, and educational
   opportunities. The development supports access to employment and commerce
   through its proximity to transit and potential for mixed-use elements, maintaining and
   improving connections between housing, transit, education, and commerce, as
   encouraged by Utah Code Ann. § 10-9a-403.1(7)(b)(iii).

   2.4.4. Increase transportation choices and connections. The Project’s proximity to
   the TRAX station encourages public transit use, reducing single-occupancy vehicle
   trips and air pollution. The development shall support investment in transportation
   infrastructure, including pedestrian and bicycle facilities where feasible, and align
   with the regional transportation plan of the applicable metropolitan planning
   organization, consistent with Utah Code Ann. § 10-9a-403.1(7)(b)(iv).

   2.4.5. Workforce Housing. To further the objective of increasing moderate income
   housing availability, Developer shall set aside at least thirty (30) residential units for
   workforce housing. These units shall be sold under the following terms: (i) offered
   exclusively to City employees, school teachers, first responders (e.g., police,
   firefighters), and similar eligible buyers; (ii) the City will make good faith efforts to
   contribute up to $30,000.00 per unit toward the purchase price, preferably using
   Redevelopment Agency (RDA) funds; (iii) Developer or its affiliate will provide a
   $30,000.00 credit per unit, applied through purchase price reductions or mortgage
   interest rate buydowns; and (iv) the City and Developer will seek to maximize
   eligibility for the State’s First Time Homebuyer Assistance Program, which provides
   a $20,000 interest-free grant to qualified buyers. Homebuyers participating in this
   workforce housing program shall have no obligation to repay the City’s contributions
                                  Draper City Contract #                             Page 6 of 21
       or Developer’s credits. These measures align with the City’s general plan and
       promote affordable housing costs, as outlined in Utah Code Ann. § 10-9a-
       403.1(7)(b)(i).

   2.5. Zoning and Exceptions. The Project shall be zoned RM2 and subject to the RM2
   code in place at the time this Agreement is approved with the following exception, all of
   which promote the station area objectives described in Section 2.4 above.

       2.5.1. Density. Density shall be no less than 25 units per acre and no more than 27
       units per acre, measured by dividing the total number of units in the Project by the
       total acreage of the Project.

   2.6. Expansion of the Project; Additional Land. The Project may be expanded to
   include additional land adjacent to the north side of 11900 South (east of Juan Diego
   School and west of 700 East), so long as such additional land is contiguous to a parcel
   already included in the Project, and such additional land, if added to the Project, shall be
   governed by the terms and conditions of this Agreement, including, without limitation,
   the Maximum Residential Units that may be built on such additional land.

3. Vested Rights.

   3.1. Vested Rights Granted by Approval of this Agreement. To the maximum extent
   permissible under the laws of Utah and the United States and at equity, the Parties intend
   that this Agreement grants Developer the vested rights to develop the Project in
   fulfillment of this Agreement, the City’s Vested Laws, and the Zoning, except as
   specifically provided herein. The Parties specifically intend that this Agreement grant to
   Developer “vested rights” as that term is construed in Utah’s common law and pursuant
   to Utah Code Ann. § 10-9a-509 (2018). Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Zoning
   granted under this Agreement does not entitle Developer to approval of a site plan, which
   shall be subject to further review and approval by the City in accordance with the
   Concept Plan described in Section 3.3, the City’s Vested Laws, and applicable provisions
   of this Agreement.

   3.2. Exceptions. The restrictions on the applicability of the City’s Future Laws to the
   Project as specified in Section 3.1 are subject to only the following exceptions:

       3.2.1. Developer Agreement. City’s Future Laws that Developer agrees in writing to
       the application thereof to the Project;

       3.2.2. State and Federal Compliance. City’s Future Laws which are generally
       applicable to all properties in the City and which are required to comply with State
       and Federal laws and regulations affecting the Project;

       3.2.3. Codes. Any City’s Future Laws that are updates or amendments to existing
       building, plumbing, mechanical, electrical, drainage, fire, or similar construction or
       safety-related codes, such as the International Building Code, the APWA
       Specifications, AAHSTO Standards, the Manual of Uniform Traffic Control Devices
       or similar standards that are generated by a nationally or statewide recognized
                                     Draper City Contract #                            Page 7 of 21
           construction/safety organization, or by the State or Federal governments and are
           required to meet legitimate concerns related to public health, safety or welfare;

           3.2.4. Taxes. Taxes, or modifications thereto, so long as such taxes are lawfully
           imposed and charged uniformly by the City to all properties, applications, persons
           and entities similarly situated;

           3.2.5. Fees. Changes to the amounts of fees for the processing of Development
           Applications that are generally applicable to all development within the City (or a
           portion of the City as specified in the lawfully adopted fee schedule) and which are
           adopted pursuant to State law;

           3.2.6. Impact Fees. Impact Fees or modifications thereto which are lawfully adopted,
           and imposed by the City and which meet all requirements of the U. S. Constitution,
           Utah Constitution, law and applicable statutes, including but not limited to Utah Code
           Ann. Section 11-36a-101 (2018) et seq.;

           3.2.7. Planning and Zoning Modification. Changes by the City to its planning
           principles and design standards such as architectural or design requirements, setbacks
           or similar items so long as such changes do not work to reduce the Maximum
           Residential Units, are generally applicable across the entire City and do not materially
           and unreasonably increase the costs of any Development; or

           3.2.8. Compelling, Countervailing Interest. Laws, rules or regulations that the City’s
           land use authority finds, on the record, are necessary to avoid jeopardizing a
           compelling, countervailing public interest pursuant to Utah Code Ann. § 10-9a-
           509(1)(a)(i) (2018).

        3.3. Concept Plan Requirement. Prior to submitting a site plan application for any
   portion of the Project, the Developer and the City shall collaboratively develop a Concept
   Plan for the Project that complies with the station area plan requirements of Utah Code Ann.
   § 10-9a-403.1(8) (2025). The Concept Plan shall include a station area vision consistent with
   the objectives of Utah Code Ann. § 10-9a-403.1(7)(a) and shall be approved by the City
   Council as part of the Kimballs Lane Station Area Plan, and such approval shall be a
   prerequisite to the submission of any site plan application. The Concept Plan shall guide
   subsequent site plan approvals to ensure consistency with the station area plan and this
   Agreement.

    4. Term of Agreement. The effective date of this Agreement shall be the date on which it is
approved by the City Council of the City and signed by both Parties hereto. This Agreement
shall expire on the earliest to occur of full Buildout of the Project or December 31, 2032. The
term of this Agreement may be extended beyond December 31, 2032, by mutual written
agreement of the City and Developer. Any such extension shall be executed in writing, specify
the new expiration date, and be approved by the City Council.

   5. Processing of Development Applications.

       5.1. Outsourcing of Processing of Development Applications. Within twenty-one (21)
                                         Draper City Contract #                           Page 8 of 21
calendar days after receipt of a Development Application and upon the request of
Applicant the City and Applicant will confer to determine whether the City desires to
Outsource the review of any aspect of the Development Application to ensure that it is
processed on a timely basis. If the City determines that Outsourcing is necessary to
ensure the timely processing of the Development Application then the City shall
promptly estimate the reasonably anticipated differential cost of Outsourcing in good
faith consultation with the Applicant (either overtime to City employees or the hiring of a
City Consultant). If Applicant notifies the City that it desires to proceed with the
Outsourcing based on the City’s estimate of costs then Applicant shall deposit in advance
with the City the estimated differential cost and the City shall then promptly proceed with
having the work Outsourced. Upon completion of the Outsourcing services and the
provision by the City of an invoice (with such reasonable supporting documentation as
may be requested by Applicant) for the actual differential cost (whether by way of paying
a City Consultant or paying overtime to City employees) of Outsourcing, Applicant shall,
within thirty (30) calendar days pay or receive credit (as the case may be) for any
difference between the estimated differential cost deposited for the Outsourcing and the
actual cost differential.

5.2. Acceptance of Certifications Required for Development Applications. Any
Development Application requiring the signature, endorsement, or certification and/or
stamping by a person holding a license or professional certification required by the State
of Utah in a particular discipline shall be so signed, endorsed, certified or stamped
signifying that the contents of the Development Application comply with the applicable
regulatory standards of the City. The City should endeavor to make all of its redlines,
comments or suggestions at the time of the first review of the Development Application
unless any changes to the Development Application raise new issues that need to be
addressed.

5.3. Independent Technical Analyses for Development Applications. If the City needs
technical expertise beyond the City’s internal resources to determine impacts of a
Development Application such as for structures, bridges, water tanks, and other similar
matters which are not required by the City’s Vested Laws to be certified by such experts
as part of a Development Application, the City may engage such experts as City
Consultants with the actual and reasonable costs being the responsibility of Applicant.
The City Consultant undertaking any review by the City required or permitted by this
Agreement shall be selected from a list generated by the City for each such City review
pursuant to a “request for proposal” process or as otherwise allowed by City ordinances
or regulations. Applicant may, in its sole discretion, strike from the list of qualified
proposers any of such proposed consultants so long as at least three (3) qualified
proposers remain for selection. The anticipated cost and timeliness of such review may be
a factor in choosing the expert. The actual and reasonable costs being the responsibility
of Applicant.

5.4. City Denial of a Development Application. If the City denies a Development
Application the City shall provide a written determination advising the Applicant of the
reasons for denial including specifying the reasons the City believes that the
Development Application is not consistent with this Agreement, the Zoning and/or the
City’s Vested Laws (or, if applicable, the City’s Future Laws).
                                  Draper City Contract #                           Page 9 of 21
5.5. Meet and Confer regarding Development Application Denials. The City and
Applicant shall meet within twenty-one (21) calendar days of any Denial to resolve the
issues specified in the Denial of a Development Application.

5.6. City Denials of Development Applications Based on Denials from Non-City
Agencies. If the City’s denial of a Development Application is based on the denial of the
Development Application by a Non-City Agency, Applicant shall appeal any such denial
through the appropriate procedures for such a decision and not through the processes
specified below.

5.7. Mediation of Development Application Denials.

   5.7.1. Issues Subject to Mediation. Issues resulting from the City’s Denial of a
   Development Application that the parties are not able to resolve by “Meet and
   Confer” shall be mediated.

   5.7.2. Mediation Process. If the City and Applicant are unable to resolve a
   disagreement subject to mediation, the parties shall attempt within fifteen (15)
   calendar days to appoint a mutually acceptable mediator with knowledge of the legal
   issues in dispute. If the City and Applicant are unable to agree on a single acceptable
   mediator they shall each, within fifteen (15) calendar days, appoint their own
   representative. These two representatives shall, between them, choose the single
   mediator. Applicant and the City shall split the fees of the chosen mediator, each
   Party paying 50% of the fees. The chosen mediator shall within fifteen (15) calendar
   days, review the positions of the parties regarding the mediation issue and promptly
   attempt to mediate the issue between the parties. The parties shall participate in
   mediation in good faith efforts to resolve the dispute. If the parties are unable to reach
   agreement, the mediator shall notify the parties in writing of the mediator’s opinion of
   the appropriate terms of resolution under applicable law, but the mediator's opinion
   shall not be binding on the parties.

5.8. Arbitration of Development Application Objections.

   5.8.1. Arbitration Process. If the City and Applicant are unable to resolve an issue
   through mediation, the parties may then attempt within fifteen (15) calendar days to
   appoint a mutually acceptable arbitrator with knowledge of the legal issue in dispute.
   If the parties are unable to agree on a single acceptable arbitrator they shall each,
   within fifteen (15) calendar days, each Party shall appoint their own individual
   appropriate expert. These two experts shall, between them, choose the single
   arbitrator. Applicant and the City shall split the fees of the chosen arbitrator, each
   Party paying 50% of the fees. The chosen arbitrator shall within fifteen (15) calendar
   days, review the positions of the parties regarding the arbitration issue and render a
   decision. The arbitrator shall ask the prevailing party to draft a proposed order for
   consideration and objection by the other side. Upon adoption by the arbitrator, and
   consideration of such objections, the arbitrator's decision shall be final and binding
   upon both parties. If the arbitrator determines as a part of the decision that the City’s
   or Applicant’s position was not only incorrect but was also maintained unreasonably
                                  Draper City Contract #                           Page 10 of 21
           and not in good faith then the arbitrator may order the City or Applicant to pay the
           arbitrator’s fees.

    6. Application Under City’s Future Laws. Without waiving any rights granted by this
Agreement, Developer may at any time, choose to submit a Development Application for all or
part of the Project under the City’s Future Laws in effect at the time of the Development
Application so long as Developer is not in current breach of this Agreement.

   7. Public Infrastructure.

       7.1. Construction by and Developer. Developer shall have the right and the obligation
       to construct or cause to be constructed and installed all Public Infrastructure reasonably
       and lawfully required as a condition of approval of the Development Application
       pursuant to the City’s Vested Laws.

       7.2. Bonding. If and to the extent required by the City's Vested Laws, unless otherwise
       provided by Chapter 10-9a of the Utah Code as amended, security for any Public or
       private Infrastructure—is required by the City Applicant shall provide it in a form
       acceptable to the City as specified in the City's Vested Laws. Partial releases of any such
       required security shall be made as work progresses based on the City's Vested Laws.

   8. Upsizing/Reimbursements to Developer.

       8.1. "Upsizing." The City shall not require Developer to “upsize” any future Public
       Infrastructure (i.e., to construct the infrastructure to a size larger than required to service
       the Project) unless financial arrangements reasonably acceptable to Developer are made
       to compensate Developer for the incremental or additive costs of such upsizing. For
       example, if an upsizing to a water pipe size increases costs by 10% but adds 50% more
       capacity, the City shall only be responsible to compensate Developer for the 10% cost
       increase. An acceptable financial arrangement for upsizing of improvements means
       reimbursement agreements, payback agreements, and impact fee credits and
       reimbursements.

       8.2. Mediation of Upsizing Disputes. Any dispute between City and Developer regarding
       the financial arrangements for upsizing under Section 8.1, including but not limited to
       disagreements over the reasonableness of proposed reimbursement terms, shall be subject
       to the mediation process specified in Section 5.7 of this Agreement.

   9. Default.

       9.1. Notice. If Developer or the City fails to perform their respective obligations
       hereunder or to comply with the terms hereof, the Party believing that a Default has
       occurred shall provide Notice to the other Party.

       9.2. Contents of the Notice of Default. The Notice of Default shall:

           9.2.1. Specific Claim. Specify the claimed event of Default;

                                           Draper City Contract #                            Page 11 of 21
   9.2.2. Applicable Provisions. Identify with particularity the provisions of any
   applicable law, rule, regulation or provision of this Agreement that is claimed to be in
   Default;

   9.2.3. Materiality. Identify why the Default is claimed to be material; and

   9.2.4. Optional Cure. If the City chooses, in its discretion, it may propose a method
   and time for curing the Default which shall be of no less than thirty (30) calendar
   days duration.

9.3. Meet and Confer, Mediation, Arbitration. Upon the issuance of a Notice of
Default the parties shall engage in the “Meet and Confer” and “Mediation” processes
specified in Sections 5.5 and 5.7. If the claimed Default is subject to Arbitration as
provided in Section 5.8 then the parties shall follow such processes.

9.4. Remedies. If the parties are not able to resolve the Default by “Meet and Confer” or
by “Mediation,” and if the Default is not subject to arbitration then the parties may have
the following remedies, except as specifically limited in 9.9:

   9.4.1. Law and Equity. All rights and remedies available at law and in equity,
   including, but not limited to, injunctive relief and/or specific performance.

   9.4.2. Security. The right to draw on any security posted or provided in connection
   with the Project and relating to remedying of the particular Default.

   9.4.3. Future Approvals. The right to withhold all further reviews, approvals, licenses,
   building permits and/or other permits for development of the Project in the case of a
   default by Developer.

9.5. Public Meeting. Before any remedy in Section 9.4 may be imposed by the City the
party allegedly in Default shall be afforded the right to attend a public meeting before the
City Council and address the City Council regarding the claimed Default.

9.6. Emergency Defaults. Anything in this Agreement notwithstanding, if the City
Council finds on the record that a default materially impairs a compelling, countervailing
interest of the City and that any delays in imposing such a default would also impair a
compelling, countervailing interest of the City then the City may impose the remedies of
Section 9.4 without the requirements of Sections 9.5. The City shall give Notice to
Developer of any public meeting at which an emergency default is to be considered and
Developer shall be allowed to address the City Council at that meeting regarding the
claimed emergency Default.

9.7. Extended Cure Period. If any Default cannot be reasonably cured within thirty (30)
calendar days then such cure period shall be extended so long as the defaulting party is
pursuing a cure with reasonable diligence.

9.8. Default of Assignee. A default of any obligations assumed by an assignee shall not
be deemed a default of Developer.
                                  Draper City Contract #                           Page 12 of 21
       9.9. Limitation on Recovery for Default – No Damages. Anything in this Agreement
       notwithstanding no Party shall be entitled to any claim for any monetary damages as a
       result of any breach of this Agreement and each Party waives any claims thereto, except
       that the City may draw on any bond or security posted by Developer in connection with
       the Project, as provided in Section 7.2 and Section 9.4.2, to cover costs incurred by the
       City to remedy a default by the Developer. The sole remedy available to Developer shall
       be that of specific performance.

    10. Notices. All notices under this Agreement shall, in addition to any other means of
transmission, be given in writing by certified mail and regular mail to the following address:

   To Developer:
   Edge Homes Utah, LLC
   Attn: Steve Maddox
   13702 S. 200 W. B-12
   Draper, Utah 84020
   Email: steve@edgehomes.com

   With a Copy to:

   Paxton Guymon, Esq.
   Edge Homes, General Counsel
   13702 S. 200 W. B-12
   Draper, Utah 84020
   Email: pguymon@edgehomes.com

   To the City:

   Draper City
   Attn: City Manager
   Mike Barker
   1020 East Pioneer Road
   Draper, UT 84020
   mike.barker@draperutah.gov
   (801) 576-6500

   With a Copy to:

   Draper City
   Attn: City Attorney
   Traci Gundersen
   1020 East Pioneer Road
   Draper, UT 84020
   traci.gundersen@draperutah.gov
   (801) 576-6500

       10.1. Effectiveness of Notice. Except as otherwise provided in this Agreement, each
       Notice shall be effective and shall be deemed delivered on the earlier of:
                                         Draper City Contract #                          Page 13 of 21
           10.1.1. Hand Delivery. Its actual receipt, if delivered personally, by courier service,
           or by facsimile provided that a copy of the facsimile Notice is mailed or personally
           delivered as set forth herein on the same day and the sending party has confirmation
           of transmission receipt of the Notice. If the copy is not sent on the same day, then
           notice shall be deemed effective the date that the mailing or personal delivery occurs.

           10.1.2. Electronic Delivery. Its actual receipt if delivered electronically by email
           provided that a copy of the email is printed out in physical form and mailed or
           personally delivered as set forth herein on the same day and the sending party has an
           electronic receipt of the delivery of the Notice. If the copy is not sent on the same
           day, then notice shall be deemed effective the date that the mailing or personal
           delivery occurs.

           10.1.3. Mailing. On the day the Notice is postmarked for mailing, postage prepaid, by
           First Class or Certified United States Mail and actually deposited in or delivered to
           the United States Mail. Any party may change its address for Notice under this
           Agreement by giving written Notice to the other party in accordance with the
           provisions of this Section.

    11. Headings. The captions used in this Agreement are for convenience only and a not
intended to be substantive provisions or evidences of intent.

    12. No Third-Party Rights/No Joint Venture. This Agreement does not create a joint
venture relationship, partnership or agency relationship between the City, or Developer. Further,
the parties do not intend this Agreement to create any third-party beneficiary rights. The Parties
acknowledge that this Agreement refers to a private development and that the City has no
interest in, responsibility for or duty to any third parties concerning any improvements to the
Property or unless the City has accepted the dedication of such improvements at which time all
rights and responsibilities—except for warranty bond requirements under City’s Vested Laws
and as allowed by state law—for the dedicated public improvement shall be the City's.

    13. Assignability. The rights and responsibilities of Developer under this Agreement may be
assigned in whole or in part, respectively, by Developer with the consent of the City as provided
herein.

       13.1. Related Entity. Developer’s transfer of all or any part of the Property to any entity
       “related” to Developer (as defined by regulations of the Internal Revenue Service in
       Section 165), Developer’s entry into a joint venture for the development of the Project or
       Developer’s pledging of part or all of the Project as security for financing shall also not
       be deemed to be an “assignment” subject to the above-referenced approval by the City
       unless specifically designated as such an assignment by Developer. Developer shall give
       the City Notice of any event specified in this sub-section within fifteen (15) calendar days
       after the event has occurred. Such Notice shall include providing the City with all
       necessary contact information for the newly responsible party.

       13.2. Notice. Developer shall give Notice to the City of any proposed assignment and
       provide such information regarding the proposed assignee that the City may reasonably
                                         Draper City Contract #                          Page 14 of 21
       request in making the evaluation permitted under this Section. Such Notice shall include
       providing the City with all necessary contact information for the proposed assignee.

       13.3. Time for Objection. Unless the City objects in writing within forty-five (45)
       calendar days of notice, the City shall be deemed to have approved of and consented to
       the assignment.

       13.4. Partial Assignment. If any proposed assignment is for less than all of Developer’s
       rights and responsibilities then the assignee shall be responsible for the performance of
       each of the obligations contained in this Agreement to which the assignee succeeds. Upon
       any such approved partial assignment Developer shall not be released from any future
       obligations as to those obligations which are assigned but shall remain responsible for the
       performance of any obligations herein.

       13.5. Denial. The City may only withhold its consent if the City is not reasonably
       satisfied of the assignee’s financial ability to perform the obligations of or Developer
       proposed to be assigned or there is an existing breach of a development obligation owed
       to the City by the assignee or related entity that has not either been cured or in the process
       of being cured in a manner acceptable to the City. Any refusal of the City to accept an
       assignment shall be subject to the “Meet and Confer” and “Mediation” processes
       specified in Sections 5.5 and 5.7. If the refusal is subject to Arbitration as provided in
       Section 5.8 then the Parties shall follow such processes.

       13.6. Assignees Bound. Any assignee shall consent in writing to be bound by the
       assigned terms and conditions of this Agreement as a condition precedent to the
       effectiveness of the assignment. That consent shall specifically acknowledge the
       provisions of Section 2.

   14. Binding Effect. This Agreement shall be binding on and enforceable against Developer
and its successors and assigns.

    15. No Waiver. Failure of any Party hereto to exercise any right hereunder shall not be
deemed a waiver of any such right and shall not affect the right of such party to exercise at some
future date any such right or any other right it may have.

    16. Severability. If any provision of this Agreement is held by a court of competent
jurisdiction to be invalid for any reason, the Parties consider and intend that this Agreement shall
be deemed amended to the extent necessary to make it consistent with such decision and the
balance of this Agreement shall remain in full force and affect.

    17. Force Majeure. Any prevention, delay or stoppage of the performance of any obligation
under this Agreement which is due to strikes, labor disputes, inability to obtain labor, materials,
equipment or reasonable substitutes therefor; acts of nature, governmental restrictions,
regulations or controls, judicial orders, enemy or hostile government actions, wars, civil
commotions, fires or other casualties or other causes beyond the reasonable control of the Party
obligated to perform hereunder shall excuse performance of the obligation by that Party for a
period equal to the duration of that prevention, delay or stoppage.

                                          Draper City Contract #                           Page 15 of 21
    18. Time is of the Essence. Time is of the essence to this Agreement and every right or
responsibility shall be performed within the times specified.

    19. Appointment of Representatives. To further the commitment of the Parties to cooperate
in the implementation of this Agreement, the City and Developer each shall designate and
appoint a representative to act as a liaison between the City and its various departments and
Developer. The initial representative for the City shall be the City Manager. The initial
representative for Developer shall be Brandon Watson. The Parties may change their
designated representatives by Notice. The representatives shall be available at all reasonable
times to discuss and review the performance of the Parties to this Agreement and the
development of the Project.

   20. Applicable Law. This Agreement is entered into in Salt Lake County in the State of Utah
and shall be construed in accordance with the laws of the State of Utah.

   21. Venue. Any action to enforce this Agreement shall be brought only in the Third District
Court for the State of Utah, Salt Lake City Division.

    22. Entire Agreement. This Agreement, and all Exhibits thereto, is the entire agreement
between the Parties and may not be amended or modified except either as provided herein or by
a subsequent written amendment signed by all Parties.

   23. Mutual Drafting. Each Party has participated in negotiating and drafting this Agreement
and therefore no provision of this Agreement shall be construed for or against any Party based on
which Party drafted any particular portion of this Agreement.

   24. Recordation and Running with the Land.

   24.1 Recordation and Binding Effect. This Agreement shall be recorded in the chain of title
   for the Project. This Agreement shall be deemed to run with the land. The data disk of the
   City’s Vested Laws, Exhibit “B,” shall not be recorded in the chain of title. A secure copy of
   Exhibit “B” shall be filed with the City Recorder and each party shall also have an identical
   copy.

   24.2 Contingency of Property Acquisition. This Agreement shall not take effect unless and
   until the Developer or an affiliate of the Developer completes the purchase of the Property
   described in Exhibit “A.” If the Developer or an affiliate of the Developer does not acquire
   the Property within ninety (90) calendar days after the date of approval of this Agreement by
   the City Council, this Agreement shall be null and void, and neither party shall have any
   obligations or rights hereunder. Upon successful acquisition of the Property, the City shall
   proceed with recordation as provided in Section 24.1.

    25. Authority. The Parties to this Agreement each warrant that they have all of the necessary
authority to execute this Agreement. Specifically, on behalf of the City, the signature of the City
Manager of the City is affixed to this Agreement lawfully binding the City pursuant to Ordinance
No. ___ adopted by the City on month xx, 20xx.


                                         Draper City Contract #                          Page 16 of 21
        IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have executed this Agreement by and through
their respective, duly authorized representatives as of the day and year first herein above written.

DEVELOPER:                                           CITY
Edge Homes Utah, LLC                                 Draper City


_______________________                              _________________________
Steve Maddox                                         By: ______________________
Its: CEO/Manager                                     Its: City Manager
Date: ____________                                   Date: ____________


Approved as to form and legality:                    Attest:


__________________                                   __________________
City Attorney                                        City Recorder


CITY ACKNOWLEDGMENT

STATE OF UTAH                  )
      :ss.
COUNTY OF SALT LAKE            )

On the _xx__ day of month, 2025, personally appeared before me ______________________ who
being by me duly sworn, did say that he is the City Manager of Draper City, a political subdivision of
the State of Utah, and that said instrument was signed in behalf of the City by authority of its City
Council and said City Manager acknowledged to me that the City executed the same.

                                                __________________________________
                                                NOTARY PUBLIC


My Commission Expires: ________________

Residing at: _________________________




                                           Draper City Contract #                           Page 17 of 21
DEVELOPER ACKNOWLEDGMENT

STATE OF UTAH                 )
                              :ss.
COUNTY OF SALT LAKE           )

        On the _xx__ day of month, 2025, personally appeared before me Steve Maddox, who being
by me duly sworn, did say that he is the CEO and Manager of Edge Homes Utah, LLC, a Utah
limited liability company, and that the foregoing instrument was duly authorized by the company at a
lawful meeting held by authority of its operating agreement and signed in behalf of said company.

                                                          ______________________________
                                                          NOTARY PUBLIC

My Commission Expires: ________________

Residing at: _________________________




                                          Draper City Contract #                          Page 18 of 21
              TABLE OF EXHIBITS


Exhibit “A”           Legal Description of Property
Exhibit “B”           City’s Vested Laws




                 Draper City Contract #               Page 19 of 21
                                          Exhibit “A”
                                  Legal Description of Property


The Property includes the following parcels identified by Salt Lake County Tax Parcel Number:

Salt Lake County Tax Parcel 28-30-227-014
Salt Lake County Tax Parcel 28-30-226-001
Salt Lake County Tax Parcel 28-30-226-011
Salt Lake County Tax Parcel 28-30-226-012
Salt Lake County Tax Parcel 28-30-227-006

Parcel A
Beginning at a point that lies South 89°57'06" East 1329.668 feet and South 33.000 feet from the
North Quarter Corner of Section 30, Township 3 South, Range 1 East, Salt Lake Base and
Meridian (Basis of bearings is North 89°58'40" West 2640.490' - Being the North Line of the
Northwest Quarter of said Section 30, T3S, R1E, SLB&M) and running thence South 89°57'06"
East 153.081 feet; thence South 61°12'31" East 124.134 feet; thence South 47°31'02" East
176.740 feet; thence South 52°54'28" East 103.920 feet; thence South 00°02'15" West 40.100
feet; thence South 51°05'45" East 170.910 feet; thence South 00°57'15" West 17.114 feet; thence
South 51°05'45" East 49.520 feet; thence South 38°39'45" East 223.110 feet; thence South
00°02'15" West 329.126 feet; thence North 89°52'30" West 186.600 feet; thence North
89°52'32" West 599.408 feet; thence North 00°01'51" East 939.231 feet to the point of
beginning.

Property contains 13.053 acres.

Also and together with the following described tract of land:

Parcel B
Beginning at a point that lies South 89°57'06" East 2015.691 feet and South 33.000 feet from the
North Quarter Corner of Section 30, Township 3 South, Range 1 East, Salt Lake Base and
Meridian (Basis of bearings is North 89°58'40" West 2640.490' - Being the North Line of the
Northwest Quarter of said Section 30, T3S, R1E, SLB&M) and running thence South 89°57'06"
East 209.241 feet to a point on a 373.000 foot radius non tangent curve to the right, (radius bears
South 11°49'05" West, Chord: South 39°27'35" East 466.657 feet); thence along the arc of said
curve 504.169 feet through a central angle of 77°26'40"; thence South 00°44'16" East 77.650 feet
to a point on a 305.510 foot radius non tangent curve to the left, (radius bears South 88°48'07"
East, Chord: South 27°28'07" East 293.114 feet); thence along the arc of said curve 305.710 feet
through a central angle of 57°20'00"; thence South 00°07'30" West 28.250 feet; thence North
89°57'06" West 375.511 feet; thence North 38°53'57" West 327.470 feet; thence North
38°53'57" West 98.030 feet; thence North 00°06'30" East 394.970 feet to the point of beginning.

Property contains 7.126 acres.




                                         Draper City Contract #                          Page 20 of 21
                                    Exhibit “B”
                                 City’s Vested Laws


On file with the City Recorder




                                   Draper City Contract #   Page 21 of 21
   EXHIBIT H
PUBLIC COMMENT
From:               Joe Colosimo
To:                 Jennifer Jastremsky; Todd Taylor; Todd Draper
Cc:                 Steve Maddox; Paxton Guymon; Tasha Lowery; Galey Colosimo; David Dobbins
Subject:            [EXT] Edge Planning Commission
Date:               Thursday, May 15, 2025 8:55:58 AM




[EXTERNAL SENDER! Only open attachments/links you know are safe.]

Jen
Unfortunately I’m out of town for the May 22 planning commission at which time the Edge Homes application will
be heard for the development on Kimball's Lane.

I wanted to go on the record from Juan Diego.
We appreciate Edge Homes willingness to listen to our following concerns and incorporate them into their design
1. Density 25-27 units per Acre
2. Building heights less than 60 feet
3. Push housing a minimum 50 feet off our common property line
4. For Sale Product
5. Giving our teachers and opportunity to buy an attainable home
6. Disclosures to future buyers that we are a High School and plan development in the field west of the Edge
development.
7. A common fence down our common property line.
8. A stub street into the property the church owns on 118th South.

We are excited to entertain future students that the development brings to the area.

I hope my schedule will allow me to attend the City Council meeting person.

Respectfully
Joe Colosimo
Juan Diego Representative



Sent from my iPhone
