MEMO
To: Planning Commission
From: Todd A. Draper
Date: 2025-10-23
Re: Public Hearing: Specialized Manufacturing Site Plan, Conditional Use Permit, and
Deviation Requests (Administrative Actions).


Comments:


This application is a request for approval of a Site Plan, Conditional Use Permit and
Parking Deviation for approximately 4.2 acres located on the south side of 12300 S., at
approximately 687 W. 123000 S. . The property is currently zoned CG (General
Commercial). The applicant is requesting that the Site Plan, Conditional Use Permit and
Parking Deviation be approved to allow for the development of the currently vacant site
with a new building for limited manufacturing, and limited wholesale and warehousing
uses.


Parking Deviation
Findings for Approval:
  1. Adequate parking will be provided.
  2. The total number of spaces otherwise required would be overly burdensome to
     individual establishments in the development.
  3. Site or use specific conditions or factors do not provide for compliance with the
     parking requirements of the DCMC.
  4. Potential for future expansion or addition to the development will have adequate
     parking for the expansion or addition.
  5. ADA compliant parking requirements are not proposed for adjustment.

Findings for Denial:
  1. Adequate parking will not be provided.
  2. The total number of spaces otherwise required would not be overly burdensome to
     individual establishments in the development.
  3. Site or use specific conditions or factors do not affect compliance with the parking
     requirements of the DCMC.
  4. The potential for future expansion or addition to the development will not have
     adequate parking for the expansion or addition.

Site Plan
Findings for Approval:
  1. The proposal represents development of the entire site at one time.
  2. With the imposed conditions, the site plan conforms to applicable standards set
     forth in Title 9 of the DCMC, including but not limited to, building heights, setbacks,
     access points, parking, landscaping, and building materials.
  3. The proposed development plans meet the intent, goals, and objectives of the
     general plan and the purpose of the zone district in which the site is located.
  4. The public facilities and services in the area are adequate to support the subject
     development, as required by engineering standards and specifications.
  5. The proposed development plans comply with the engineering standards found in
     Titles 7, 8, 11, 12, 16, and 18 of the DCMC, including traffic, storm water drainage,
     and utilities concerns.

Findings for Denial:
  1. The site plan does not conform to one or more applicable standards set forth in
     Title 9 of the DCMC, including but not limited to, building heights, setbacks, access
     points, parking, landscaping, or building materials.
  2. The proposed development plans do not meet the intent, goals, and objectives of
     the general plan or the purpose of the zone district in which the site is located.
  3. The public facilities and services in the area are not adequate to support the subject
     development, as required by engineering standards and specifications.
  4. The proposed development plans do not comply with all engineering standards
     found in Titles 7, 8, 11, 12, 16, and 18 of the DCMC, including traffic, storm water
     drainage, or utility concerns.

Conditional Use Permit
Findings for Approval:
  1. The proposal complies with the standards for approval found in DCMC Section 9-5-
     080(E) and potential negative impacts are mitigated through the imposition of
     reasonable conditions.

Findings for Denial:
  1. The proposal does not comply with all standards for approval found in DCMC
     Section 9-5-080(E) and potential negative impacts are not able to be sufficiently
     mitigated through the imposition of reasonable conditions.




ATTACHMENTS:
Specialized Manufacturing Staff Report - Final.pdf
