                                 Development Review Committee
                                      1020 East Pioneer Road
                                        Draper, UT 84020
                                                 April 24, 2025

To:              Draper City Planning Commission
                 Business Date: May 8th, 2025

From:            Development Review Committee

Prepared By: Paul Geilman, Planning Coordinator
             Planning Division
             Community Development Department
             801-576-6551, paul.geilman@draperutah.gov

Re:   Essence Integrative Wellness and Aesthetics Home Occupation – Conditional
Use Permit Request
      Application No.: 2025-0001-USE
      Applicant:        Shanda Maxfield, representing Essence Integrative Wellness and
                        Aesthetics
      Project Location: 11886 S Poultry Dr.
      Current Zoning: R3 (Single-family residential) Zone
      Acreage:          0.11 Acres (Approximately 4792 ft2)
      Request:          Request for approval of a Conditional Use Permit in the R3 zone
                        regarding a Home Occupation Personal Care Service business
                        that has customers that come to the residence.




BACKGROUND AND SUMMARY

This application is a request for approval of a Conditional Use Permit for approximately 0.11
acres located on the west side of Poultry Dr. at 11886 S Poultry Dr. (Exhibit B & C). The
property is currently zoned R3. The application is requesting that a Conditional Use Permit
for a Home Occupation providing Personal Care Services with customers that come to the
residence be approved.

The subject property is Lot 222 in the Inauguration Subdivision Phase 2. The existing single-
family residence was built in 1997, and developed under the 1996 Inauguration Planned
Unit Development Agreement.


Essence Integrative Wellness«Project_Name» and Aesthetics Home Occupation        App. # 2025-
0001-USE
Conditional Use Permit                                     1
ANALYSIS

General Plan and Zoning.

 Table 1                    General Plan and Zoning Designations                   Exhibit
 Existing Land Use          Residential Medium-High Density                        Exhibit D
 Current Zoning             R3                                                     Exhibit E
 Proposed Use               Home Occupation
 Adjacent Zoning
     East                   R3
     West                   R3
     North                  R3
     South                  R3

The Residential Medium-High Density land use designation is characterized as follows:




According to Draper City Municipal Code (DCMC) Section 9-8-020 the purpose of the R3
zone is to, “permit medium density residential development without special mitigation
requirements. This zone is intended to provide incentives to foster residential development with
little impact on its surroundings and on municipal services, and to generally preserve the
semirural character called for in the density element of the general plan.”


Essence Integrative Wellness«Project_Name» and Aesthetics Home Occupation           App. # 2025-
0001-USE
Conditional Use Permit                                     2
Site Plan Layout. The provided Site Plan and Floor Plans (Exhibit F) show the business being
located in an office space within the residence. The customers will arrive in the alley on the
west side of the house and park on a concrete pad to the north of the detached garage.
Customers will access the office through the rear door of the house. There will be no
signage or other changes made to the exterior of the building or yards that would indicate
that the property is used for anything other than as a single-family dwelling.
Parking. According to the statements provided by the applicant customers come to the
home one at a time, and will park in the rear of the lot next to the rear loaded garage on a
19-foot by 13-foot, concrete pad. There will be no customer parking on Poultry Dr. or the
Alley west of the residence.



 Table 2                       Parking Lot Design Requirements
 Standard                      DCMC Requirements     Proposal                         Notes
 Parking Required
 (Min/Max)
    Single-Family              2 spaces in a Garage            2 spaces in
    Residential                                                Detached garage,
    Home Occupation            All parking must be             Customers will park
                               provided and be                 on a 19’ by 13’
                               maintained on site.             concrete pad next to
                                                               the garage.

Home Occupation. The DCMC Section 9-34-040 outlines development standards applicable
to all home occupations. Those criteria, along with information specific to the subject
request, are as follows:

        A. Ownership: The home occupation shall be owned and operated by a person who
            resides in the dwelling where the home occupation is located. Such person shall be
            the primary provider of the labor, work, or service provided in the home occupation.
                • The applicant is a resident of the subject dwelling, owns and operates the
                    business. She is the only provider of the business services.

        B. Business License: A business license for the home occupation shall be obtained from
            and continually maintained with the city pursuant to title 6, chapter 11 of this code.
               • An application for a business license will be submitted and the applicant
                   will be required to continually maintain the business license as long as
                   the business is in operation at the property.

        C. Employees: Members of the family of the owner who reside in the dwelling may be
            employed in the home occupation. Nonfamily or nonresident employees shall be
            limited to one person.
                • There are no other employees of the business besides the applicant.


Essence Integrative Wellness«Project_Name» and Aesthetics Home Occupation                     App. # 2025-
0001-USE
Conditional Use Permit                                     3
        D. Inspection: All facilities shall comply with fire, building, plumbing, electrical and all
            other city, county, state and federal codes. Inspections during reasonable hours by
            city officials may occur as necessary to assure compliance with regulations.
                 • The applicant has indicated the business will comply with all fire, building,
                     plumbing, electrical, and applicable city, county, state, and federal codes.
                     The owner will allow inspections as required to ensure compliance
                     (Exhibit H).

        E. Inventory: No stock in trade, inventory, or other merchandise to exceed two hundred
            fifty (250) square feet shall be kept on the premises. No outside storage is allowed.
                 • The applicant indicates that the business will not store inventory
                     exceeding 250 square feet, and no outside storage is required or
                     planned.

        F. Modification Of Structures Or Yards: There shall be no visible evidence from the
            exterior of a dwelling that it is being used for any other purpose than that of a
            dwelling. No activities shall be carried on outside the dwelling in the yard for the
            benefit of or incidental to the home occupation. No front yard area shall be altered
            to provide parking required for a home occupation.
                • There is an existing 19’ x 13’ concrete pad for parking in the rear yard for
                    customer parking. No activities are carried on outside the dwelling
                    outside of customer arrival and departure. No yard areas are proposed to
                    be altered.

        G. Nuisance: Tools, items, equipment, or activities conducted within the dwelling which is
            offensive or noxious by reason of the emission of odor, smoke, gas, vibration,
            magnetic interference, or noise shall be prohibited.
                • The applicant indicates that the services provided (chemical peels,
                    cosmetic injections and telehealth consultations) will not generate odor,
                    smoke, gas, vibration, magnetic interference, or noise (Exhibit H).

        H. Secondary Use: The home occupation shall be clearly incidental and secondary to the
            primary use of the dwelling for residential purposes. The home occupation shall not
            disrupt the normal residential character of the neighborhood in which the residence
            is located. Not more than twenty five percent (25%) of the dwelling unit shall be used
            for the home occupation.
                 • The business will occupy only the office room at roughly 200 square feet.
                    Putting the office use at 8.9% of the 2244 square foot residence. This is
                    well under 25% of the dwelling, ensuring the business remains an
                    incidental secondary use of the residence.




Essence Integrative Wellness«Project_Name» and Aesthetics Home Occupation              App. # 2025-
0001-USE
Conditional Use Permit                                     4
        I. Signs: All signage in a residential area must comply with chapter 26, "Signs", of this
             title.
                  • No exterior signage will be used for the business. Per the applicant, any
                      advertising will be digital or word-of-mouth (Exhibit H).

        J. Traffic, Parking, And Access: No home occupation use shall generate pedestrian,
             parking, or vehicular traffic in excess of that customarily associated with the zone in
             which the use is located. All parking shall be provided and maintained on site with
             adequate provision for drop off traffic.
                 • The business will generate limited client traffic. The applicant will see
                     between three (3) and five (5) clients per day, by appointment only. The
                     parking will be contained to the parking pad designated for clients. To
                     ensure that parking is only occurring in the designated customer space,
                     customer appointments will be staggered to allow one customer to leave
                     before the next arrives (Exhibit H).

        K. Vehicles: Other than the business owner's personal transportation, there shall be no
            vehicles or equipment on the property associated with the home occupation which
            would not normally be found at a residence. No signage for the home occupation
            shall be allowed on vehicles.
                • The only vehicles related to the business at the property will be the
                    customers vehicles parked in the designated parking stall. Appointment
                    times will be staggered to allow for one customer to leave with their
                    vehicle before the next customer arrives.

        L. Yards: Yards surrounding the dwelling and accessory buildings shall not be used for
            any activities or storage of any materials associated with the home occupation.
               • No yard space will be used for business operations or material storage.
                    All business activities are conducted indoors.


        M. Customers: No customers allowed. Children accessing a limited daycare or limited
           preschool facility shall not be considered customers.
               • This is the primary deviation being requested from the Home Occupation
                  use standards in the DCMC. The applicant is requesting to have up to five
                  (5) customers daily. All customers will be by appointment only.
                  Appointment times will be staggered to allow for one customer to leave
                  with their vehicle before the next customer arrives.

        N. Utility Demand: The home occupation shall not cause a demand for public utilities in
            excess of that necessarily and customarily provided for residential uses.
                 • Applicant has indicated that the business will not increase gas, water, or
                    electrical usage beyond normal residential levels (Exhibit H).



Essence Integrative Wellness«Project_Name» and Aesthetics Home Occupation              App. # 2025-
0001-USE
Conditional Use Permit                                     5
        O. Main Structure: The home occupations shall be conducted, located, and contained
           within the primary structure on the property.
               • All business operations will be conducted inside the primary residence.
                   No accessory buildings or outdoor areas will be used.

        P. Single-Family And Multiple-Family Dwellings: Home occupations listed as permitted or
            conditional within this title may be permitted in a single-family or a multiple-family
            dwelling, subject to the standards found within this section and section 9-34-060 of
            this chapter. Businesses within multiple-family dwellings shall provide an approval
            letter from the respective homeowners' association, or management company in the
            case of apartments, if the business proposes any employees, customers or business
            vehicles.
                • The business is located in a single-family home, no homeowners’
                     association approval is required.

        Q. Licensure: Any home occupation involving childcare shall comply with all applicable
            state and local laws and regulations regarding residential childcare, including, but
            not limited to, provisions of the Utah child care licensing act, as set forth in Utah
            Code Annotated section 26-39-101 et seq., as amended, and the residential certificate
            childcare standards as set forth in the Utah administrative code section R430-50-1 et
            seq., as amended. In addition, cottage food production operations are regulated and
            inspected by the Utah department of agriculture. Any food related home occupation
            under their jurisdiction must comply with these regulations.
                • This proposed business does not involve childcare or cottage food
                    production.

The applicant indicates that the hours of operation will be 9 am – 6 pm on Tuesdays and
Wednesdays. The potential detrimental impacts associated with this business type are
limited to the effects of increased traffic in the neighborhood. The potential detrimental
impacts are mitigated by the onsite parking provided, limited number of customers,
staggered scheduling of appointments, and daytime business hours. Staff has included
suggested conditions of approval in this report that address these mitigations. Staff
believes that it would be appropriate to allow the business to operate on the remaining
weekdays should the owner later desire to change the days or operation or need to expand
to accommodate the customers.

Criteria for Approval.
The criteria for review and potential approval of a conditional use permit request are found
in Section 9-5-080(E) of the DCMC. This section depicts the standard of review for such
requests as:




Essence Integrative Wellness«Project_Name» and Aesthetics Home Occupation             App. # 2025-
0001-USE
Conditional Use Permit                                     6
        E. Approval Standards: The standards of this subsection shall apply to the issuance of a
            conditional use permit:
         1. A conditional use permit may be issued for a use to be located within a zone where
            the particular conditional use is allowed by the use regulations of the zone.
         2. Reasonable conditions may be imposed as necessary to substantially mitigate
            reasonably anticipated detrimental effects of the proposed use. These conditions may
            include conditions concerning use, construction, character, location, landscaping,
            screening, parking, hours of operation, and other matters relating to the purposes
            and objectives of this section. Such conditions shall be expressly set forth in the
            motion authorizing the conditional use permit.
         3. If the reasonably anticipated detrimental effects of a proposed conditional use
            cannot be substantially mitigated by the imposition of reasonable conditions to
            achieve compliance with applicable standards, the conditional use may be denied.
         4. The following factors shall be reviewed and considered in determining whether a
            conditional use permit application should be approved, approved with conditions, or
            denied because reasonable conditions cannot be imposed to achieve compliance
            with applicable standards:
              a. The harmony and compliance of the proposed use with the objectives and
                  requirements of the city's general plan and this title;
              b. The suitability of the specific property for the proposed use;
              c. Whether the proposed use or facility may be injurious to potential or existing
                  development in the vicinity;
              d. The economic impact of the proposed facility or use on the surrounding area;
              e. The aesthetic impact of the proposed facility or use on the surrounding area;
              f. The safeguards proposed or provided to ensure adequate utilities, transportation
                  access, drainage, parking, loading space, lighting, screening, landscaping, open
                  space, fire protection, and pedestrian and vehicular circulation;
              g. The safeguards provided or proposed to prevent noxious or offensive emissions
                  such as noise, glare, dust, pollutants and odor from the proposed facility or use;
                  and
              h. The impact of the proposed facility or use on the health, safety, and welfare of the
                  city, the area, and persons owning or leasing property in the area.
         5. The planning commission may request additional information as may be reasonably
            needed to determine whether the requirements of this subsection E can be met.



REVIEWS

Planning Division Review. The Draper City Planning Division has completed their review of
the Conditional Use Permit submission. Comments from this division, if any, can be found
in Exhibit A.

Engineering and Public Works Divisions Review. The Draper City Engineering and Public


Essence Integrative Wellness«Project_Name» and Aesthetics Home Occupation              App. # 2025-
0001-USE
Conditional Use Permit                                     7
Works Divisions have completed their reviews of the Conditional Use Permit submission.
Comments from these divisions, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Building Division Review. The Draper City Building Division has completed their review of the
Conditional Use Permit submission. Comments from this division, if any, can be found in
Exhibit A.

Fire Division Review. The Draper City Fire Marshal has completed his review of the
Conditional Use Permit submission. Comments from this division, if any, can be found in
Exhibit A.

Noticing. Notice has been properly issued in the manner outlined in the City and State
Codes.



STAFF RECOMMENDATION

Staff recommends that the Planning Commission review the request based on the findings
listed below and the criteria for approval, or denial as listed within the staff report. The
Planning Commission should also review the request, hear from the applicant, and receive
public comment prior to making a decision.

If the Planning Commission decides to approve the request, staff recommends they include
the following conditions of approval:

        1.       That all requirements of the Draper City Engineering, Public Works, Building,
                 Planning, and Fire Divisions are satisfied throughout the development of the
                 site and the construction of all buildings on the site, including permitting.
        2.       That the hours of operation be limited to 9:00 am to 6:00 pm Monday
                 through Friday.
        3.       That customers shall be by appointment only and that appointment times
                 shall be staggered to allow for customers to leave the property before the
                 next customer arrives.
        4.       That all customers shall park on-site in the designated parking space shown
                 on the approved site plan and shall not park on the street or in the alleyway.



MODEL MOTIONS

Sample Motion for Approval – I move that we approve the Conditional Use Permit, as
requested by Shanda Maxfield, representing Essence Integrative Wellness and Aesthetics
PLLC for a Personal Care Service Home Occupation, application 2025-0001-USE, based on




Essence Integrative Wellness«Project_Name» and Aesthetics Home Occupation          App. # 2025-
0001-USE
Conditional Use Permit                                     8
the findings and criteria for approval and subject to the conditions listed in the Staff Report
dated April 24, 2025.

Findings for Approval:

    1. The application meets the criteria for approval found in DCMC Section 9-5-080(E),
       and DCMC Chapter 9-34, and reasonable conditions have been imposed that will
       mitigate the anticipated detrimental effects of the proposed use.

Sample Motion for Modified Approval– I move that we approve the Conditional Use Permit,
as requested by Shanda Maxfield, representing Essence Integrative Wellness and
Aesthetics PLLC for a Personal Care Service Home Occupation, application 2025-0001-USE,
based on the findings and criteria for approval and subject to the conditions listed in the
Staff Report dated April 24, 2025 and as modified by the following additional findings or
conditions:

        1. (List any additional findings or conditions…)

Sample Motion for Denial – I move that we deny the Conditional Use Permit, as requested
by Shanda Maxfield, representing Essence Integrative Wellness and Aesthetics PLLC for a
Personal Care Service Home Occupation, application 2025-0001-USE, based on the findings
and criteria for denial as listed in the Staff Report dated April 24, 2025

Findings for Denial:

    1. The application does not meet one or more of the criteria found in DCMC Section 9-
       5-080(E) or DCMC Chapter 9-34 required for approval of the request, and
       reasonable conditions are not able to be imposed that would the mitigate the
       anticipated detrimental effects of the proposed use.




Essence Integrative Wellness«Project_Name» and Aesthetics Home Occupation          App. # 2025-
0001-USE
Conditional Use Permit                                     9
                                      EXHIBIT A
                                 DEPARTMENT REVIEWS

REVIEWS ARE NOT MEANT TO BE AN ALL INCLUSIVE LIST OF POSSIBLE COMMENTS OR
CONDITIONS.



Planning Division Review.

       1.     No additional Comments

Engineering and Public Works Divisions Review.

       1.     W We have reviewed the subject home occupation use permit (CUP)
              application according to the standards of the Draper City Municipal Code. It
              is our understanding that the applicant is requesting a conditional use permit
              to operate a home-based business. Accordingly, we offer the following
              comments related to the engineering findings, including the following:
                    I. The present and future requirements for transportation, traffic,
                       water, sewer, and other utilities for the subject site do not appear to
                       be detrimentally impacted as described. Given the location and
                       proposed use, the use is not anticipated to generate a significant
                       impact to water, sewer, or other potential utilities.
                   II. The number of trips generated by the home owner as the applicant
                       and no employees with limited customers visiting the residence by
                       appointment only will not have a detrimental impact to traffic in the
                       area. The applicant indicated that customers will be limited to
                       appointment times to visit the site. Based on the applicant’s
                       statements, the potential for issues with traffic would be minimal. The
                       capacity of the fronting public street, Poultry Drive is a residential
                       street, with limited capacity, is designed for typical neighborhood
                       traffic. Based on the description of the traffic generated by the
                       business, the number of trips generated by the associated occupation
                       and customers is limited and does not impact current traffic loads on
                       the street. Based on the statements of the applicant about limited
                       customers to appointment times, no significant impact to traffic is
                       anticipated with the proposed use.
                  III. The applicant indicated that all needed parking is available in the
                       existing concrete pad. The subject home is located on a public
                       residential street with the garage and rear access from an alley.
                       Presently, on-street parking is permitted on Poultry Drive. Should on-
                       street parking become an issue such as during inclement weather or
                      excessive on-street parking in the vicinity, then the city could limit or
                      eliminate parking on the public street, thereby requiring all customers
                      park on the concrete pad, accessed from the alley. No on-street
                      parking is permitted in the alley. Based on the information from the
                      applicant, no significant impact to parking is anticipated with the
                      proposed use.
                  IV. The proposed use does not appear detrimental to the health, safety,
                      or general welfare of the persons residing or working in the vicinity, or
                      injurious to the property or improvements in the vicinity.

Building Division Review.

       1.      No additional Comments



Fire Division Review.

       1.      No additional Comments
  EXHIBIT B
VICINITY MAP
 EXHIBIT C
AERIAL MAP
  EXHIBIT D
LAND USE MAP
 EXHIBIT E
ZONING MAP
       EXHIBIT F
SITE AND FLOOR PLANS
Site and Floor Plans



    Aerial View
Floor Plans
 EXHIBIT G
ELEVATIONS
Elevations
       EXHIBIT H
APPLICANT QUESTIONAIRE
                                     Home Occupation

                                 Statement of Variance Applicability

Not applicable

                                     Overview of Proposed Use

Please provide a description of your proposed business and use including parking, hours of operation,
expected patrons and or employees, and proposed site improvements if necessary. Include details of
reasonably anticipated detrimental effects to adjacent properties and the neighborhood (such as
traffic or noise) and any mitigation measures that can alleviate those effects.

The proposed business Essence Integrative Wellness & Aesthetics will be a home-based practice
specializing in medical-grade skincare treatments, including chemical peels, cosmetic injections
(e.g. Botox, fillers), and telehealth appointments for weight loss injections. The business will
operate in a dedicated area of the home, designed to maintain a professional and welcoming
environment while blending seamlessly with the residential surroundings.

Hours of Operation

   •   Tuesday & Wednesday: 9:00 AM – 6:00 PM

Expected Patrons and Employees

   •   Services will be by appointment only, ensuring a controlled flow of clients.
   •   The business anticipates an average of 3-5 clients per day on-site and telehealth visits.
   •   No additional employees aside from the business owner will be present at this time.

Parking and Site Improvements

   •   A concrete parking pad will accommodate patient parking, ensuring a safe and designated
       space for visitors without encroaching on street parking.
   •   The cement parking pad can be seen on the Google Maps view provided in this
       application and is designed to complement the existing driveway and landscaping,
       minimizing visual impact.

Potential Detrimental Effects & Mitigation Measures

   •   Traffic: Since appointments are staggered and limited to a small number of clients per
       day, traffic impact will be minimal. There is on-site parking (cement parking pad) to
       further reduce any congestion concerns.
   •   Noise: The nature of the business is quiet, involving one-on-one treatments in a
       controlled indoor setting. No excessive noise is anticipated.
   •   Aesthetic Impact: The home’s exterior will remain residential in appearance, with no
       large signage or commercial modifications. Any necessary site improvements will be
       designed to blend with the property.

By maintaining a discreet and professional setting with minimal impact on the surrounding
neighborhood, this business will provide a valuable service while respecting the residential
character of the area.



                                   Compliance With Standards



Describe how the proposed use is in compliance and harmony with the objectives and requirements
of the city’s general plan.

The proposed home-based aesthetic business Essence Integrative Wellness & Aesthetics aligns
with Draper City's general plan and complies with local zoning regulations, ensuring harmony
with the community's objectives. Here's how the business meets these standards:

Zoning Compliance and Neighborhood Compatibility

   •   Residential Zoning Alignment: Operating within a residential zone, the business
       adheres to Draper City's zoning ordinances that permit low-impact, home-based
       professional services. This ensures the business integrates seamlessly into the
       neighborhood without altering its residential character.
   •   Home Occupation Standards: The business complies with Draper's home occupation
       regulations, which typically require that such enterprises are secondary to the residential
       use, do not significantly increase traffic, and maintain the neighborhood's aesthetic.

Preservation of Community Character

   •   Minimal Structural Changes: By avoiding major exterior modifications and refraining
       from displaying commercial signage, the business maintains the existing residential
       appearance, preserving the neighborhood's visual appeal.
   •   Controlled Client Visits: With services offered by appointment only and a limited
       number of clients per day, the business minimizes traffic and parking concerns, ensuring
       the quiet ambiance of the area is maintained.

Economic and Community Benefits

   •   Local Service Provision: Offering specialized wellness & aesthetic treatments within the
       community meets local demand, providing residents with convenient access to services
       without the need to travel to commercial centers.
    •   Support for Local Economy: The business contributes to the local economy by sourcing
        supplies from nearby vendors and potentially increasing patronage to neighboring
        establishments.

Health, Safety, and Environmental Considerations

    •   Regulatory Compliance: Adhering to all applicable health and safety regulations, the
        business ensures that treatments are conducted in a safe and sanitary environment,
        safeguarding client and community well-being.
    •   Low Environmental Impact: The nature of the services provided results in minimal
        noise, waste, and emissions, aligning with environmental standards and community
        expectations.

Infrastructure and Accessibility

    •   Adequate Parking Solutions: The installation of a concrete parking pad on the property
        provides sufficient off-street parking for clients, mitigating potential congestion and
        maintaining orderly vehicular circulation.
    •   Accessibility Enhancements: Ensuring that pathways from the parking area to the
        treatment space are clear and accessible accommodates all clients.

By thoughtfully integrating into the residential setting and adhering to Draper City's general plan
and zoning requirements, the proposed business supports the city's vision for harmonious
community development and offers valuable services to local Draper residents.



Explain the suitability of the specific property for the proposed use:

The property is well-suited for a home-based wellness & aesthetics practice due to its accessible
location, sufficient space for client accommodations, and its ability to maintain a residential appearance
while offering professional services. The home includes a dedicated treatment area that ensures privacy,
cleanliness, and compliance with health and safety standards. The property layout allows for designated
off-street parking and smooth client access without disrupting the neighborhood.



Whether or not the proposed use may be injurious to potential or existing development in the
vicinity?

The proposed business is designed to be low-impact and will not hinder existing or future developments
in the area. The limited number of daily clients, appointment-only scheduling, and quiet nature of the
services provided will ensure that the business remains non-intrusive to surrounding properties.



Describe the economic impact of the proposed facility or use on the surrounding area:
    o The business will contribute positively to the local economy by providing a specialized
      service that attracts residents seeking high-quality wellness & aesthetics treatments.
    o It may increase property values by demonstrating the viability of well-maintained,
      professional home-based businesses.
    o It can support local suppliers and vendors by sourcing skincare products and medical-
      grade materials from nearby businesses.


Describe the aesthetic impact of the proposed facility or use on the surrounding area:


    o The home will retain its residential character, with no significant modifications that
      would alter the neighborhood’s visual appeal.
    o The concrete parking pad is integrated discreetly into the property’s layout, maintaining
      curb appeal.
    o No large commercial signage or external advertising will be displayed.
    o Any landscaping adjustments will enhance the overall aesthetic without creating a
      commercial appearance.


What Safeguards are proposed or provided to ensure adequate utilities, transportation access,
drainage, parking, loading space, lighting, screening, landscape, open space, fire protection, and
pedestrian and vehicular circulation?


    o Utilities: The business will operate within standard residential utility capacities, requiring
      no excessive water, electricity, or gas consumption beyond typical household use.
    o Transportation Access: The property is accessible via existing roadways, with no
      anticipated impact on local traffic patterns.
    o Drainage: Any site improvements, such as the parking pad, will comply with local
      stormwater management regulations to prevent drainage issues.
    o Parking & Loading Space: A designated concrete parking pad will prevent on-street
      congestion, ensuring safe and convenient client access.
    o Lighting: Outdoor lighting will be minimal and focused on safety, ensuring it does not
      create light pollution or glare for neighbors.
    o Screening & Landscaping: Any additional landscaping will be aesthetically pleasing
      and serve as a buffer between the business and adjacent properties.
    o Open Space: The property will maintain open yard areas, preserving the neighborhood’s
      character.
    o Fire Protection: The business will comply with fire safety regulations, including readily
      accessible extinguishers and adherence to occupancy limits.
    o Pedestrian & Vehicular Circulation: Clients will have a clear, unobstructed path from
      the parking area to the entrance, ensuring smooth and safe access.
What safeguards will be provided or proposed to prevent noxious or offensive emission such as noise,
glare, dust, pollutants and odor from the proposed facility or use?

    o Noise: The business operates indoors with quiet treatments and appointment-only
      scheduling, ensuring minimal sound impact.
    o Glare: No bright signage or excessive lighting will be used.
    o Dust & Pollutants: The nature of the business does not generate dust or airborne
      pollutants.
    o Odors: Medical-grade skincare treatments involve mild, controlled-use products that do
      not produce strong or lingering odors.
Describe the impact of the proposed facility or use on the health, safety, and welfare of the city, the
area, and persons owning or leasing property in the area.

    o The business will enhance community well-being by offering health-focused wellness &
      aesthetics treatments in a safe and professional setting.
    o It will comply with all health and sanitation standards, ensuring a clean and controlled
      environment.
    o The appointment-only model will prevent overcrowding or excessive traffic.
    o The business owner will maintain all required licenses and certifications, ensuring
      adherence to professional and medical guidelines.
    o By operating in a home setting, the business provides a safe and convenient alternative
      for clients seeking treatments without the need to visit larger, busier commercial
      facilities.


                                         Development Standards

Please provide explanation how you meet the following standards or how your proposed business
requires a deviation from one or more of these standards. If it doesn’t apply mark N.A.

    •    Ownership: The home occupation shall be owned and operated by a person who resides in the
        dwelling where the home occupation is located. Such person shall be the primary provider of
        the labor, work, or service provided in the home occupation.
            o I, Shanda Maxfield, the resident of this dwelling, will own and operate the business, and
                I will be the only provider of the services Essence Integrative Wellness & Aesthetics
                offers.
    •   Business License: A business license for the home occupation shall be obtained from and
        continually maintained with the city pursuant to title 6, chapter 11 of this code.
            o I will maintain a Draper City business license per city requirements if granted.
    •   Employees: Members of the family of the owner who reside in the dwelling may be employed in
        the home occupation. Nonfamily or nonresident employees shall be limited to one person.
            o I, the resident, will solely operate this business at this time.
    •   Inspection: All facilities shall comply with fire, building, plumbing, electrical and all other city,
        county, state and federal codes. Inspections during reasonable hours by city officials may occur
        as necessary to assure compliance with regulations.
        o   The business will comply with all fire, building, plumbing, electrical, and applicable city,
            county, state, and federal codes. The owner will allow inspections as required to ensure
            compliance.
•    Inventory: No stock in trade, inventory, or other merchandise to exceed two hundred fifty (250)
    square feet shall be kept on the premises. No outside storage is allowed. (Ord. 909, 7-21-2009)
        o The business will not store inventory exceeding 250 square feet, and no outside storage
            is required or planned.
•   Modification Of Structures Or Yards: There shall be no visible evidence from the exterior of a
    dwelling that it is being used for any other purpose than that of a dwelling. No activities shall be
    carried on outside the dwelling in the yard for the benefit of or incidental to the home
    occupation. No front yard area shall be altered to provide parking required for a home
    occupation. (Ord. 1132, 2-17-2015)
        o The business has a concrete parking pad to accommodate patient parking. This is
          a modification to the yard but will not alter the front yard area significantly
          beyond what is customary for residential properties.
        o No other structural modifications or visible changes will be made to the home.
•   Nuisance: Tools, items, equipment, or activities conducted within the dwelling which is offensive
    or noxious by reason of the emission of odor, smoke, gas, vibration, magnetic interference, or
    noise shall be prohibited.
         o The services provided (chemical peels, cosmetic injections and telehealth consultations)
              will not generate odor, smoke, gas, vibration, magnetic interference, or noise.
•   Secondary Use: The home occupation shall be clearly incidental and secondary to the primary
    use of the dwelling for residential purposes. The home occupation shall not disrupt the normal
    residential character of the neighborhood in which the residence is located. Not more than
    twenty five percent (25%) of the dwelling unit shall be used for the home occupation.
         o The business will occupy less than 25% of the dwelling, ensuring that it remains
              incidental to the primary residential use of the home.
•   Signs: All signage in a residential area must comply with chapter 26, "Signs", of this title.
         o No exterior signage will be used for the business. Any advertising will be digital or word-
              of-mouth.
•   Traffic, Parking, And Access: No home occupation use shall generate pedestrian, parking, or
    vehicular traffic in excess of that customarily associated with the zone in which the use is
    located. All parking shall be provided and maintained on site with adequate provision for drop
    off traffic.
         o No exterior signage will be used for the business. Any advertising will be digital or word-
              of-mouth.

•   Vehicles: Other than the business owner's personal transportation, there shall be no vehicles or
    equipment on the property associated with the home occupation which would not normally be
    found at a residence. No signage for the home occupation shall be allowed on vehicles.
        o The business will generate limited client traffic (3-5 clients per day, by
          appointment only).
        o A concrete parking pad will accommodate on-site parking and prevent congestion
          on the street.
        o Client visits will be staggered to prevent multiple vehicles from arriving at once.
•   Yards: Yards surrounding the dwelling and accessory buildings shall not be used for any activities
    or storage of any materials associated with the home occupation.
        o     No yard space will be used for business operations or material storage. All activities will
              be conducted indoors.
•   Customers: No customers allowed. Children accessing a limited daycare or limited preschool
    facility shall not be considered customers.
         o The business will serve patients, unlike some home occupations that prohibit customer
              visits. However, visits will be by appointment only, ensuring limited traffic and
              disruption.
•   Utility Demand: The home occupation shall not cause a demand for public utilities in excess of
    that necessarily and customarily provided for residential uses.
         o The business will not increase water, gas, or electrical usage beyond normal residential
              levels.
•   Main Structure: The home occupations shall be conducted, located, and contained within the
    primary structure on the property. (Ord. 909, 7-21-2009)
         o All business operations will be conducted inside the primary residence. No accessory
              buildings or outdoor areas will be used.
•   Single-Family And Multiple-Family Dwellings: Home occupations listed as permitted or
    conditional within this title may be permitted in a single-family or a multiple-family dwelling,
    subject to the standards found within this section and section 9-34-060 of this chapter.
    Businesses within multiple-family dwellings shall provide an approval letter from the respective
    homeowners' association, or management company in the case of apartments, if the business
    proposes any employees, customers or business vehicles. (Ord. 1132, 2-17-2015)
         o The business is located in a single-family home, and no homeowners’ association
              approval is required.
•   Licensure: Any home occupation involving childcare shall comply with all applicable state and
    local laws and regulations regarding residential childcare, including, but not limited to,
    provisions of the Utah child care licensing act, as set forth in Utah Code Annotated section 26-
    39-101 et seq., as amended, and the residential certificate childcare standards as set forth in the
    Utah administrative code section R430-50-1 et seq., as amended. In addition, cottage food
    production operations are regulated and inspected by the Utah department of agriculture. Any
    food related home occupation under their jurisdiction must comply with these regulations. (Ord.
    909, 7-21-2009)
         o The business does not involve childcare or food production, so these requirements do
              not apply.
•   What are the measurements on the concrete Pad for the parking?
           19x13 feet
•   Please provide what professional licenses will be maintained as part of the business
    allowing you to prescribe botox and other things.

          -State of Utah Department of Commerce Division of Corporations &
    Commerical Code Certificate of Organization (PLLC) – Essence Integrative Wellness &
    Aesthetics
           -Employer Identification Number 33-1475262

           TWO MALPRACTICE INSURANCE POLICIES
           -Healthcare Professional Liability Insurance (CM&F) 1$/3$M limits
           -Medical Professional Liability Reporting Policy (MICA) 1$/3$M limits

           NATIONAL & STATE LICENSING
           -National Provider Identifier 1801585393
           -Controlled Substance Registration Certificate (DEA#) MM9373325

           -State of Utah Department of Commerce Division of Professional Licensing
                   A.P.R.N 14105487-4405
                   A.P.R.N Controlled Substance Schedule 2-5: 14105487-8900

           ADVANTAGE ALLERGEN AESTHETICS ACCOUNT – I order botox, juvederm,
    kybella & skinmedica.
           NIMA INSTITUTE
                  -Advanced Exfoliation Course Certification
                  -Advanced Injections Course Certification

•   Is the Medical Office at your home only taking place in the Labeled “Office” on the
    Site plan? YES
•   Is any inventory also being stored in the Room labeled “Office” on the Site Plan?
    Inventory is only stored in the “Office”
•   The plans show the front door hallway and office, but the parking is in the back.
    Please describe the method of entry for the Customers. Will they walk around the
    front and come in the front door? Or will they use a different door? If a different
    door is the plan we will need to see the other door on the Floor Plan. I would most
    likely have them come through the back door. I will attach an updated floor plan.
    Thank you for all your help!
