MINUTES OF THE DRAPER CITY COUNCIL MEETING HELD ON TUESDAY, MAY 6,
2025, IN THE DRAPER CITY COUNCIL CHAMBERS, 1020 EAST PIONEER ROAD,
DRAPER, UTAH

PRESENT:       Mayor Troy K. Walker, and Councilmembers Bryn Heather Johnson,
               Tasha Lowery, Fred Lowry, and Marsha Vawdrey
EXCUSED: Mike Green
STAFF:         Mike Barker, City Manager; Travis DeJong, Business License Official; Rich
               Ferguson, Chief of Police; Traci Gundersen, City Attorney; Jennifer
               Jastremsky, Community Development Director; Robert Markle, Public
               Works Deputy Director; Malena Murray, Human Resource Director;
               Rhett Ogden, Parks and Recreation Director; Linda Peterson,
               Communications Director; Maryann Pickering, Planner; Nicole Smedley,
               City Recorder; Clint Smith, Fire Chief; Jake Sorensen, Network Manager;
               and John Vuyk, Finance Director.
______________________________________________________________________________________________

Study Session

South Valley Chamber Annual Update
Jay Francis, President and CEO of the South Valley Chamber of Commerce, provided
an update on the Chamber’s activities. He reported on tourism initiatives, highlighted
social media engagement metrics, and reviewed events and accomplishments from
2024.

Closed Meeting
Mayor Walker moved the Closed Session item forward on the agenda to allow
sufficient time for discussion.

At 6:21 pm, Councilmember T. Lowrey motioned to go into closed session to
discuss the purchase, exchange, or lease of real property or a development
agreement. Councilmember Vawdrey seconded the motion.

A roll call vote was taken. The motion passed unanimously.
                                Yes No Absent
Councilmember Green                          X

                                                                                    1|Page
         Draper City Council DRAFT Meeting Minutes – May 6, 2025
Councilmember Johnson            X
Councilmember T. Lowery          X
Councilmember F. Lowry           X
Councilmember Vawdrey            X

The Council reconvened in open session at 6:59 pm.

OPMA/Ethics Training
This item was continued to a future meeting.


Council/Manager Reports
This item was moved to the end of the Business Session.


Business Session

1.    Call to Order by Mayor Troy K. Walker

2.    Pledge of Allegiance led by Jake Sorensen

3.    Recognition: Miss Draper 2024 Royalty
      Mayor Walker recognized and thanked Sloane James, Miss Draper 2024, along
      with Attendants Skylar Zamalloa, Laulea Tavake, and Kamryn Stuart, for their
      year of service as Miss Draper Royalty. Mayor Walker also expressed
      appreciation to all individuals involved in the Miss Draper Royalty program.
      Ms. James presented a video showcasing photographs from the past year of
      service.

4.    Proclamation
      Mayor Walker read aloud a proclamation recognizing May 2025 as Bike Month
      in Draper City, and urged all residents to join in observance.

5.    Public Comments
      Christopher Gardner, a Draper resident, stated that he had unintentionally
      violated the Zoning Code by constructing a structure in his backyard without a
      permit, not realizing one was required. He explained that he is a disabled
      veteran with mental health challenges and was unaware of the setback
      requirements, noting that due to his condition, he sometimes misses details
      others may take for granted. Mr. Gardner said he had been working with city

                                                                           2|Page
      staff to obtain a permit retroactively but was informed that staff were limited
      by the constraints of the Code. He noted he had obtained letters of support
      from neighbors and encroachment clearance from all utility companies. Mr.
      Gardner expressed a desire to resolve the issue appropriately and asked for
      guidance on how to proceed. He stated he was willing to pay a fine and
      officially include the structure in the property’s taxable footprint. He shared
      that one reason for building the structure was to make his yard accessible to
      the neighborhood for recreational activities. He added that modifying the
      structure to bring it into compliance would be cost-prohibitive and be
      unsightly.

      Michael Edward Chenoweth, a Draper resident, thanked the Council for the
      opportunity to recite the Pledge of Allegiance in a public setting. Mr.
      Chenoweth stated that he is a neighbor of Mr. Gardner and spoke about
      challenges in the neighborhood related to irrigation mitigation. He noted that
      Mr. Gardner’s landscaping improvements and the addition of the accessory
      structure had resolved standing water issues on his corner of the adjacent lots,
      benefiting neighboring properties. Mr. Chenoweth stated that adjoining
      neighbors had no objections to the structure and expressed concern that
      dismantling it would be unfortunate. He remarked that the Zoning Code can
      be confusing and suggested that the City provide a simplified explanation or
      an instructional video on the website to help property owners better
      understand allowable uses.


6.    Consent Items
6.a   Approval of April 22, 2025 City Council Meeting Minutes
6.b   Approval of Resolution #25-19 establishing an interim policy for
      processing classification requests for new and unlisted business uses
      pursuant to Senate Bill 179
6.c   Approval of Resolution #25-22 approving and authorizing the execution
      of a Vote Center Agreement between Draper City and Salt Lake County
      for the 2025 municipal elections

      Councilmember T. Lowery moved to approve the Consent Agenda.
      Councilmember Vawdrey seconded the motion.

      A roll call vote was taken. The motion passed unanimously.
                                       Yes No Absent


                                                                            3|Page
      Councilmember Green                                X
      Councilmember Johnson               X
      Councilmember T. Lowery             X
      Councilmember F. Lowry              X
      Councilmember Vawdrey               X

7.    Action Items
7.a   Ordinance #1648 amending Title 6-4 of the Draper City Municipal Code
      pertaining to alcoholic beverage licenses – hospitality amenity licenses
      and bar establishment licenses
      Business License Official Travis DeJong presented proposed amendments to
      Title 6-4, which would add hospitality amenity license to City Code. He
      explained that with a hospitality amenity license, which may be used all year,
      alcohol may only be served to hotel guests, and two single servings of alcohol
      may be provided free of charge (if not spiritous liquor). Comparatively, with a
      single event license, which may only last up to five days, alcohol may be
      provided only for purchase, and may be purchased by all attendees.

      Mr. DeJong said the total number of bar establishment licenses allowed in the
      City was capped at eight, with an added restriction that one license must go to
      a bar establishment located within a full-service hotel. The City currently had
      seven active bar establishment licenses, none of which were in a full-service
      hotel. Mr. DeJong recommended removing the requirement that one of the
      bar establishment licenses must be reserved for a full-service hotel, without
      increasing the number of bar establishments allowed.

      Mr. DeJong explained proposed amendments regarding transfer of licenses,
      and removal of application requirements from Code to allow staff to
      determine and update what was required in application forms without Code
      amendment.

      Responding to a question from Councilmember Vawdrey, Mr. DeJong said
      hospitality amenity licenses would need to be renewed yearly, but renewal
      would not require Council consent. Mr. DeJong said the proposed text was
      copied from another Draper Code text amendment and modified for
      hospitality amenity license, and was not directly pulled from State Code. Mr.
      DeJong answered questions from the Council regarding hospitality amenity
      license versus single event license. He said the proposed amendments were
      drafted in response to a request from an applicant.

                                                                            4|Page
Councilmember T. Lowery asked if hospitality amenity licenses were common
in other cities. Community Development Director Jennifer Jastremsky said it
typically depended on the classification of hotel. Mr. DeJong said he did not
know if cities adjacent to Draper offered hospitality amenity licenses.

Councilmember F. Lowry expressed concern that amending the Code to
eliminate the future possibility of an alcohol license for a full-service hotel in
order to accommodate a single applicant was troubling. Councilmember
Vawdrey said no one seemed to completely understand what a hospitality
amenity license was, and said she was uncomfortable combining so many
separate changes in one ordinance. She suggested the different changes
should be approved separately.

City Attorney Traci Gundersen explained a hospitality amenity license could be
obtained from the State, but Draper Code did not currently include a definition
for that type of license.

Councilmember Vawdrey moved to approve removing the full-service
hotel stipulation from bar establishment licenses, Section 6-4-
050(B)(2)(c). Councilmember T. Lowery seconded the motion.

A roll call vote was taken. The motion passed unanimously.
                                 Yes No Absent
Councilmember Green                            X
Councilmember Johnson             X
Councilmember T. Lowery           X
Councilmember F. Lowry            X
Councilmember Vawdrey             X

Councilmember F. Lowry moved to continue amendments related to
hospitality amenity licenses, application requirements, the transfer of
on-premises beer retailer licenses, and various formatting and grammar
changes to a future meeting. Councilmember Johnson seconded.

A roll call vote was taken. The motion passed unanimously.
                                 Yes No Absent
Councilmember Green                            X
Councilmember Johnson             X

                                                                        5|Page
      Councilmember T. Lowery           X
      Councilmember F. Lowry            X
      Councilmember Vawdrey             X

8.    Items for Council Consideration
8.a   Public Hearing: Ordinances #1649 and #1650 amending the official Land
      Use Map of Draper City from Residential Low-Medium Density to
      Residential Medium-High Density, amending the official Zoning Map of
      Draper City from RA2 (Residential Agricultural) to RM2 (Residential
      Multiple-Family), and approving a Development Agreement for
      approximately 0.046 acres for the property located at approximately
      13040 S. 1300 East, within Draper City, otherwise known as the Lingo Land
      Use, Zoning and Development Agreement
      Maryann Pickering, Planner, showed the property under consideration on a
      map, and explained the proposal was to change the land use designation to
      Medium-High Density and the zoning to RM2 to match the property to the
      north. The Development Agreement would be upgraded for the property to
      allow one single-family residential unit. Ms. Pickering explained the three
      applications must be considered prior to a boundary line adjustment and
      official transfer of the property. She stated that the Planning Commission
      reviewed the application and forwarded a positive recommendation.

      Councilmember Johnson asked about future development restrictions on the
      property when the 10-year Development Agreement expired. Ms. Pickering
      said the property did not meet square-foot requirements for multi-family
      development.

      Shane Lingo, applicant, said he was trying to purchase the small subject
      property to connect it to his current backyard.

      Mayor Walker opened a public hearing, and closed the public hearing
      seeing no one come forward.

      Councilmember Vawdrey moved to approve Ordinance #1649 and
      Ordinance #1650. Councilmember T. Lowery seconded the motion.

      A roll call vote was taken. The motion passed unanimously.
                                       Yes No Absent
      Councilmember Green                            X

                                                                        6|Page
      Councilmember Johnson               X
      Councilmember T. Lowery             X
      Councilmember F. Lowry              X
      Councilmember Vawdrey               X

8.b   Public Hearing: Resolution #25-20 establishing the Draper City Tentative
      Budget for Fiscal Year 2025-2026 ending June 30, 2026, and setting the
      public hearing date of May 20, 2025 to receive comment on the tentative
      budget
      Finance Director John Vuyk presented a Tentative Budget for FY2026,
      highlighting increases and decreases compared to the FY2025 Budget. Mr.
      Vuyk pointed out the property tax rate would reduce with removal of the
      current general obligation (GO) bond. He explained a plan to reduce the deficit
      in the Water Fund with proposed increases to water rates over multiple years.

      Mayor Walker opened a public hearing.

      David Cloward, Draper resident and Chair of the Draper Tree Committee,
      thanked the City Council and City staff for support of the Tree Committee. He
      referred to a presentation he made previously to the City Council in which he
      emphasized the need for a full-time arborist on staff, and repeated that a
      dedicated full-time arborist was needed. He commented that all neighboring
      cities had a dedicated full-time arborist. Mr. Cloward said it was his
      understanding that the request for a City arborist had been addressed by
      outsourcing mowing to be able to free up other resources, but the City would
      still not have an individual on staff dedicated to the trees. He emphasized the
      need for a dedicated full-time arborist, and asked the Council to reconsider.

      Mayor Walker closed the public hearing.

      Councilmember F. Lowry moved to approve Resolution #25-20 adopting
      the FY2026 Tentative Budget and setting a public hearing date of May 20,
      2025. Councilmember Vawdrey seconded the motion.

      A roll call vote was taken. The motion passed unanimously.
                                       Yes No Absent
      Councilmember Green                            X
      Councilmember Johnson             X
      Councilmember T. Lowery           X

                                                                           7|Page
      Councilmember F. Lowry            X
      Councilmember Vawdrey             X

8.c   Public Hearing: Resolution #25-21 amending the adopted budget of
      Draper City for Fiscal Year 2024-2025
      Mr. Vuyk presented proposed amendments to the FY2025 Budget, and
      answered questions from the Council.

      Mayor Walker opened a public hearing, and closed the public hearing
      seeing no one come forward.

      Councilmember F. Lowry moved to approve Resolution           #25-21.
      Councilmember Johnson seconded the motion.

      A roll call vote was taken. The motion passed unanimously.
                                       Yes No Absent
      Councilmember Green                            X
      Councilmember Johnson             X
      Councilmember T. Lowery           X
      Councilmember F. Lowry            X
      Councilmember Vawdrey             X

9.    Recess to a Draper City Community Reinvestment Agency Meeting
      Councilmember T. Lowery moved to recess to a Community
      Reinvestment Agency meeting. Councilmember Vawdrey seconded the
      motion.

      A roll call vote was taken. The motion passed unanimously.
                                       Yes No Absent
      Councilmember Green                            X
      Councilmember Johnson             X
      Councilmember T. Lowery           X
      Councilmember F. Lowry            X
      Councilmember Vawdrey             X

      The Council resumed the City Council meeting at 8:21 pm.

Council/Manager Reports (Continued from Study Session)



                                                                   8|Page
      Councilmember F. Lowry thanked Mr. Vuyk for his work on the budget and
      asked if crosswalks could be added at two specific trail crossings to improve
      safety. Staff indicated they would look into the possibility. Councilmember F.
      Lowry also requested that markers be added on northbound Fort Street to
      warn drivers of the bend in the road.

      Councilmember Johnson thanked all those involved in the Arbor Day and Cinco
      de Mayo celebrations.

      Councilmember T. Lowery inquired about how recent State legislation might
      affect parking in bike lanes. Staff stated they would explore potential options.
      She also asked if funding for an arborist position could be included in the
      FY2026 budget. Mr. Ogden responded that staffing could potentially be
      adjusted to create a full-time arborist position. Councilmember Johnson
      requested a tentative proposal showing how the staffing structure would be
      organized. Additionally, Councilmember T. Lowery noted she had received
      positive feedback from residents regarding the new lighting at the
      amphitheater.

      Parks and Recreation Director Rhett Ogden asked the Council if they wished
      to provide updated direction for the hours of operation at the City splash pad.
      Councilmember Vawdrey suggested opening the splash pad during the
      farmers market and expressed interest in having it open more frequently. The
      Council discussed parking arrangements for the farmers market, including the
      option of closing the road for the event. A majority of the Council appeared to
      support opening the splash pad daily, provided staff availability.

      Fire Chief Smith reported that Draper City had received a grant of
      approximately $120,000 to create a fire break in the Mercer Hollow area.

10.   Adjournment
      Councilmember Johnson moved to adjourn the meeting. Councilmember
      T. Lowery seconded the motion, which passed by unanimous voice vote
      (4-0).

      The meeting adjourned at 8:38 pm.


                                                                            9|Page
