                                Development Review Committee
                                    1020 East Pioneer Road
                                      Draper, Utah 84020


                                        STAFF REPORT
                                       August 19, 2025

To:                 Draper City Planning Commission
                    Business Date: August 28, 2025

From:               Development Review Committee

Prepared By:        Maryann Pickering, AICP, Planner III
                    Planning Division
                    Community Development Department
                    (801) 576-6391 or maryann.pickering@draperutah.gov

Re:     Goodrich Pointe – Land Use and Zoning Map Amendment Requests
        Application Nos.: 2025-0109-MA and 2025-0105-MA
        Applicant:        Alan Prince, representing the Crescent Irrevocable Trust
        Project Location: Approximately 11775 S. 700 West
        Current Zoning: RA1 (Residential Agricultural, 40,000 sq. ft. lot minimum)
        Acreage:          Approximately 8.7 acres (approximately 378,972 sq. ft.)
        Request:          Request is to amend the land use designation from Residential
                          Low/Medium Density to Residential Medium Density and amend
                          the zoning designation from RA1 (Residential Agricultural, 40,000
                          sq. ft. minimum) to R4 (Single Family Residential, 10,000 sq. ft. lot
                          minimum).



SUMMARY AND BACKGROUND
This application is a request for approval of a Land Use Map Amendment and Zoning Map
Amendment for approximately 8.7 acres located on the east side of 700 West at
approximately 11775 S. 700 West (Exhibits B and C). The property is currently zoned RA1.
The applicant is requesting that the applications be approved for a potential future
subdivision.

The subject property consists of two parcels. Both parcels are owned by the same owner.
The larger parcel is vacant and the smaller parcel contains a single family residence. That



Goodrich Pointe                                                       Apps. # 2025-0109-MA
Land Use and Zoning Map Amendments                                           2025-00105-MA
                                               1
residence was built in approximately 1971. The applicant has indicated a future
subdivision is planned.

ANALYSIS
General Plan and Zoning.

 Table 1                   General Plan and Zoning Designations                Exhibit
 Existing Land Use         Residential Low/Medium Density                      Exhibit D
 Current Zoning            RA1                                                 Exhibit E
 Proposed Land Use         Residential Medium Density
 Adjacent Zoning
     East                  R4
     West                  RA1
     North                 RA1 and R4
     South                 R4

The Residential Low/Medium Density land use designation is characterized as follows:




Goodrich Pointe                                                   Apps. # 2025-0109-MA
Land Use and Zoning Map Amendments                                       2025-00105-MA
                                               2
According to Draper City Municipal Code (DCMC) Section 9-8-020 the purpose of the RA1
and RA2 zones is to “foster low density development with little impact on its surroundings
and municipal services; to generally preserve the character of the city's semirural areas;
and to promote and preserve conditions favorable to large lot family life, including the
keeping of limited numbers of animals and fowl. The predominant use in these zones is
intended to be detached single-family dwellings, protected from encroachment by
commercial and industrial uses.”

Land Use Map Amendment. The applicant has requested a land use amendment to the
Residential Medium Density land use designation (Exhibit G). The proposed designation is
compatible with the requested zoning designation of R4. The Residential Medium Density
land use designation is described as follows:




Goodrich Pointe                                                     Apps. # 2025-0109-MA
Land Use and Zoning Map Amendments                                         2025-00105-MA
                                              3
Zoning Map Amendment. The applicant has requested the R4 zoning designation for the
property (Exhibit G). According to DCMC Section 9-8-020, the purpose of the R4 and R5
zones is to “permit medium to medium-high density residential developments with single-
family homes. These zones are intended to foster thriving and well maintained
neighborhoods that allow upscale single-family homes on smaller lots that require less
maintenance and provide a balanced lifestyle.”

Criteria for Approval:
Land Use Map Amendment:
The Land Use Map amendment request falls under DCMC Section 9-2-020(F) because the
Land Use Map is part of Draper City’s General Plan. That section lists the following criteria
for a General Plan amendment as:

        Plan Amendment: All plan amendments shall be in accordance with Utah Code
        Annotated 10-9a-404, as amended and, unless requested by the city's legislative
        body, shall follow the procedures as outlined in Draper City Municipal Code 9-5-
        060(D). That section is noted as follows:



Goodrich Pointe                                                      Apps. # 2025-0109-MA
Land Use and Zoning Map Amendments                                          2025-00105-MA
                                              4
        D.      Procedure: Zoning text and map amendments shall be considered and
                processed as provided in this subsection:
                1.    A complete application shall be submitted to the office of the Zoning
                      Administrator in a form established by the administrator along with
                      any fee established by the city’s schedule of fees. The application
                      shall include at least the following information:
                      a.      The name, address and telephone number of the applicant
                              and the applicant’s agent, if any.
                      b.      The name and address of every person or company the
                              applicant represents.
                      c.      The requested amendment and reasons supporting the
                              request.
                      d.      If the proposed amendment requires a change in the zoning
                              map, the application shall include:
                              (1)      An accurate property map showing present and
                                       proposed zoning classifications;
                              (2)      All abutting properties showing present zoning
                                       classifications; and
                              (3)      An accurate legal description and an approximate
                                       common address of the area proposed to be rezoned.
                      e.      If the proposed amendment requires a change in the text of
                              this title, the application shall include chapter and section
                              references and a draft of the proposed text.
                2.    After the application is determined to be complete, the zoning
                      administrator shall prepare a staff report evaluating the application.
                3.    The Planning Commission shall schedule and hold a public hearing on
                      the application as provided in sections 9-5-040 and 9-5-045 of this
                      chapter. Following the public meeting, the Planning Commission shall
                      recommend approval, approval with modifications, or denial of the
                      proposed amendment and shall submit its recommendation to the
                      City Council for review and decision.
                4.    The City Council shall schedule and hold a public hearing on the
                      application as provided in sections 9-5-040 and 9-5-045 of this
                      chapter. Following the public hearing, the City Council may approve,
                      approve with modifications, or deny the proposed amendment.

Zoning Map Amendment 9-5-060(E)
A Map Amendment is a matter committed to the legislative discretion of the City Council
and is not controlled by any one standard. However, in making a recommendation to the
City Council, the Planning Commission should consider the following factors in Section 9-5-
060(E) of the DCMC:




Goodrich Pointe                                                     Apps. # 2025-0109-MA
Land Use and Zoning Map Amendments                                         2025-00105-MA
                                              5
1.      Map Amendments:
        a.   Whether the proposed amendment is consistent with goals, objectives and
             policies of the city's general plan;
        b.   Whether the proposed amendment is harmonious with the overall character
             of existing development in the vicinity of the subject property;
        c.   Whether the proposed amendment is consistent with the standards of any
             applicable overlay zone;
        d.   The extent to which the proposed amendment may adversely affect adjacent
             property; and
        e.   The adequacy of facilities and services intended to serve the subject
             property, including, but not limited to, roadways, parks and recreation
             facilities, police and fire protection, schools, stormwater drainage systems,
             water supplies, and wastewater and refuse collection.


REVIEWS
Planning Division Review. The Draper City Planning Division has completed their review of
the Land Use Map and Zoning Map amendment submissions. Comments from this
division, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Engineering and Public Works Divisions Review. The Draper City Engineering and Public
Works Divisions have completed their review of the Land Use Map and Zoning Map
amendment submissions. Comments from this division, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Building Division Review. The Draper City Building Division has completed their review of the
Land Use Map and Zoning Map amendment submissions. Comments from this division, if
any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Fire Division Review. The Draper City Fire Marshal has completed their review of the Land
Use Map and Zoning Map amendment submissions. Comments from this division, if any,
can be found in Exhibit A.

GIS Review. The Draper City GIS Division has completed their review of the Land Use Map
and Zoning Map amendment submissions. Comments from this division, if any, can be
found in Exhibit A.

Noticing. Notice has been properly issued as outlined in City and State Codes.


STAFF RECOMMENDATION
Staff recommends that the Planning Commission review the requests, receive public
comment, and makes decisions based on the findings listed below and the criteria for
approval, or denial, as listed within the staff report.


Goodrich Pointe                                                    Apps. # 2025-0109-MA
Land Use and Zoning Map Amendments                                        2025-00105-MA
                                             6
MODEL MOTIONS AND FINDINGS
Land Use Map Amendment
Sample Motion for Positive Recommendation – I move that we forward a positive
recommendation to the City Council for the Land Use Map amendment, as requested by
Alan Prince, representing the Crescent Irrevocable Trust for the Goodrich Pointe Land Use
Map Amendment, application 2025-0109-MA, based on the findings for approval listed in
the Staff Report dated August 19, 2025.

Findings for Approval:
1.     The proposed land use map amendment is consistent with goals, objectives, and
       policies of the city's general plan.
2.     The proposed land use map amendment is harmonious with the overall character
       of existing development in the vicinity of the subject property.
3.     The proposed land use map amendment will not adversely affect adjacent property.
4.     There are adequate facilities and services intended to serve the subject property,
       including, but not limited to, roadways, parks and recreation facilities, police and fire
       protection, schools, stormwater drainage systems, water supplies, and wastewater
       and refuse collection.
5.     The proposed land use map amendment complies with DCMC Section 9-2-020(F).
6.     The legislative body may adopt any amendment to the general plan land use map
       that the legislative body considers appropriate.

Sample Motion for Modified Positive Recommendation – I move that we forward a positive
recommendation to the City Council for the land use map amendment, as requested by
Alan Prince, representing the Crescent Irrevocable Trust for the Goodrich Pointe Land Use
Map Amendment, application 2025-0109-MA, based on the findings for approval listed in
the Staff Report dated August 19, 2025 and as modified by additional findings as follows:

1.      (List additional findings for approval…)

Sample Motion for Negative Recommendation – I move that we forward a negative
recommendation to the City Council for the land use map amendment, as requested by
Alan Prince, representing the Crescent Irrevocable Trust for the Goodrich Pointe Land Use
Map Amendment, application 2025-0109-MA, based on the findings for denial listed in the
Staff Report dated August 19, 2025.

Findings for Denial:
1.     The proposed land use map amendment is not consistent with goals, objectives,
       and policies of the city's general plan.
2.     The proposed land use map amendment is not harmonious with the overall
       character of existing development in the vicinity of the subject property.


Goodrich Pointe                                                       Apps. # 2025-0109-MA
Land Use and Zoning Map Amendments                                           2025-00105-MA
                                               7
3.      The proposed land use map amendment will adversely affect adjacent property.
4.      There are not adequate facilities and services intended to serve the subject
        property, including, but not limited to, roadways, parks and recreation facilities,
        police and fire protection, schools, stormwater drainage systems, water supplies,
        and wastewater and refuse collection.
5.      The legislative body may reject any amendment to the general plan land use map
        that the legislative body considers appropriate.

Zoning Map Amendment
Sample Motion for Positive Recommendation – I move that we forward a positive
recommendation to the City Council for the Zoning Map Amendment, as requested by Alan
Prince, representing the Crescent Irrevocable Trust for the Goodrich Pointe Land Use Map
Amendment, application 2025-0105-MA, based on the findings for approval listed in the
Staff Report dated August 19, 2025.

Findings for Approval:
1.     The proposed zoning map amendment is consistent with goals, objectives, and
       policies of the city's general plan.
2.     The proposed zoning map amendment is harmonious with the overall character of
       existing development in the vicinity of the subject property.
3.     The proposed zoning map amendment is consistent with the standards of any
       applicable overlay zone.
4.     The proposed zoning map amendment will not adversely affect adjacent property.
5.     There are adequate facilities and services intended to serve the subject property,
       including, but not limited to, roadways, parks and recreation facilities, police and fire
       protection, schools, stormwater drainage systems, water supplies, and wastewater
       and refuse collection.

Sample Motion for Modified Positive Recommendation – I move that we forward a positive
recommendation to the City Council for the zoning map amendment, as requested by Alan
Prince, representing the Crescent Irrevocable Trust for the Goodrich Pointe Land Use Map
Amendment, application 2025-0105-MA, based on the findings for approval listed in the
Staff Report dated August 19, 2025 and as modified by additional findings as follows:

1.      (List additional findings for approval…)

Sample Motion for Negative Recommendation – I move that we forward a negative
recommendation to the City Council for the zoning map amendment, as requested by Alan
Prince, representing the Crescent Irrevocable Trust for the Goodrich Pointe Land Use Map
Amendment, application 2025-0105-MA, based on the findings for denial listed in the Staff
Report dated August 19, 2025.




Goodrich Pointe                                                       Apps. # 2025-0109-MA
Land Use and Zoning Map Amendments                                           2025-00105-MA
                                               8
Findings for Denial:
1.     The proposed zoning map amendment is not consistent with goals, objectives, and
       policies of the city's general plan.
2.     The proposed zoning map amendment is not harmonious with the overall character
       of existing development in the vicinity of the subject property.
3.     The proposed zoning map amendment will adversely affect adjacent property.
4.     There are not adequate facilities and services intended to serve the subject
       property, including, but not limited to, roadways, parks and recreation facilities,
       police and fire protection, schools, stormwater drainage systems, water supplies,
       and wastewater and refuse collection.




Goodrich Pointe                                                   Apps. # 2025-0109-MA
Land Use and Zoning Map Amendments                                       2025-00105-MA
                                            9
                                      EXHIBIT A
                                 DEPARTMENT REVIEWS

REVIEWS ARE NOT MEANT TO BE AN ALL INCLUSIVE LIST OF POSSIBLE COMMENTS OR
CONDITIONS.

Planning Division Review.
1.     No additional comments.

Building Division Review.
1.     No additional comments.

Engineering and Public Works Divisions Review.
1.    The adequacy of facilities and services intended to serve the subject property,
      including but not limited to roadways, parks and recreation facilities, police and fire
      protection, schools, storm water drainage systems, water supplies, and waste water
      and refuse collection;
       Other than noted below, we are not aware of any inadequacies of the facilities
       intended to serve this property.
       a.     The change in zone from Residential Agricultural (RA1) to Residential (R4) is
              proposing to change from low density residential use to a higher density
              residential use, also removing the agricultural uses. This change in zoning
              represents an increase demand on the streets and utilities. The proposed
              zone has an approximate increase in traffic from the current approximately
              eight peak hour trips and approximate 70 vehicle trips per day to the
              proposed density of approximately 30 peak hour trips and approximately
              240 vehicle trips per day. The site has access to 700 West, a minor
              residential collector street. Based on the capacity of the fronting public
              street, the change in zone has the potential increase traffic on 700 West, but
              does not represent a significant increase where mitigation would be
              required. Typically, a use where 100 peak hour trips are generated triggers
              the need to have a traffic impact study (TIS) completed to analyze mitigation
              requirements. The size of the subject parcel and the potential number of
              trips generated from a parcel of this size does not automatically trigger a TIS.
              There are no existing public frontage improvements on the fronting public
              street and would be a requirement of any subdivision or site plan.
       b.     Connectivity with the subject parcel to public right-of-way is to 700 West, a
              minor residential collector. Accesses are required to meet Draper City
              standards as outlined in our Master Transportation Plan and city code. Any
              development on the site will need to be evaluated for access location to
              comply with the required spacing based on the city’s access spacing
              requirements. Access is evaluated at the time of a site plan or subdivision
              application.
       c.     There are no existing storm drainage facilities fronting the subject parcel.
              However, Willow Creek, a Salt Lake County Flood Control Facility, backs the
              site and is a potential discharge location, subject to both Draper and Salt
              Lake County Flood Control requirements. Any future change in site drainage
              will be required to be addressed with any subdivision or site plan application
              and shall comply with the provisions of the development requirements
              within the Draper City Municipal Code.
       d.     Sanitary sewer facilities will be provided by Jordan Basin Improvement
              District. Any subdivision or site plan application will require a commitment
              to serve from the sewer district that facilities are adequate to provide service
              for the proposed uses.
       e.     Drinking water is provided by Draper to the subject parcel. Any subdivision
              or site plan application will require a commitment to serve from the city that
              facilities are adequate to provide service for the proposed uses. This
              commitment is made at the time of subdivision or site plan approval.

Fire Division Review.
1.     No additional comments.

GIS Review
1.     No additional comments.
                                        EXHIBIT B
                                   LEGAL DESCRIPTION

A TRACT OF LAND SITUATE IN THE SOUTHWEST QUARTER OF SECTION 24, TOWNSHIP 3
SOUTH, RANGE 1 WEST, SALT LAKE BASE AND MERIDIAN, BEING COMPRISED OF SALT LAKE
COUNTY PARCEL NUMBERS 27-24-351-011 AND 27-24-351-012, HAVING A BASIS OF BEARINGS
OF NORTH 00°05'50" WEST BETWEEN THE SOUTHWEST CORNER AND THE WEST QUARTER
CORNER OF SAID SECTION 24, SAID TRACT OF LAND BEING MORE PARTICULARLY DESCRIBED
AS FOLLOWS:

BEGINNING AT THE SOUTHWEST CORNER OF SAID SECTION 24, AND RUNNING THENCE
NORTH 00°05'50" WEST ALONG THE SECTION LINE A DISTANCE OF 502.08 FEET; THENCE
NORTH 89°54'10" EAST 290.40 FEET; THENCE NORTH 00°05'50" WEST 149.45 FEET TO THE
SOUTH LINE OF TIME SQUARE SUBDIVISION, ON FILE WITH THE OFFICE OF THE SALT LAKE
COUNTY RECORDER IN BOOK 96-9P, PAGE 302 OF PLATS; THENCE EAST ALONG SAID SOUTH
LINE A DISTANCE OF 5.28 FEET TO THE WESTERLY LINE OF BIG WILLOW CREEK PHASE 1B, 1ST
AMENDMENT SUBDIVISION, ON FILE WITH THE OFFICE OF THE SALT LAKE COUNTY RECORDER
IN BOOK 2019P, AT PAGE 338 OF PLATS; THENCE ALONG SAID WESTERLY LINE THE
FOLLOWING NINE (9) COURSES, 1) SOUTH 49°36'18" EAST 227.33 FEET, 2) NORTH 81°51'10"
EAST 52.81 FEET, 3) SOUTH 21°50'00" EAST 112.66 FEET, 4) SOUTH 57°43'40" EAST 74.60 FEET, 5)
SOUTH 09°11'00" WEST 153.15 FEET, 6) SOUTH 62°50'10" EAST 50.40 FEET, 7) SOUTH 01°45'00"
WEST 31.69 FEET, 8) SOUTH 71°03'30" EAST 64.72 FEET, 9) SOUTH 21°32'50" EAST 149.85 FEET
TO THE SECTION LINE; THENCE SOUTH 89°53'10" WEST ALONG THE SECTION LINE A DISTANCE
OF 760.64 FEET TO THE POINT OF BEGINNING.

CONTAINS 333,885 SQUARE FEET OR 7.665 ACRES, MORE OR LESS.
  EXHIBIT C
VICINITY MAP
 EXHIBIT D
AERIAL MAP
  EXHIBIT E
LAND USE MAP
 EXHIBIT F
ZONING MAP
       EXHIBIT G
APPLICANT QUESTIONAIRE
        General Plan Land Use Map Amendment Document

               GOODRICH POINTE SUBDIVISION
                   11775 SOUTH 700 WEST, DRAPER, UTAH


1. WHAT IS THE REQUESTED LAND USE DESIGNATION?
   Our request is to change the zone of our property from it's present Residential
   Low/Medium Density to Residential Medium Density (consistent with that abutting
   our site on it's south and east adjacent boundaries.


2. Explain the reason for the request, and the justification for approval:
   The purpose of our request is to facilitate the development of a custom 2-phase
   single-family residential subdivision, with individual lots ranging from 1/3—3/4 acre
   each. The entirety of the site, fully assembled, equates to 8.737 Acres, (which
   includes three separate parcels (27251 00001, 2724351 01 1 & 27224351 01 2). Parcel
   27251 0001 (1.83 Acres) is already zoned R4. R4 is also the adjacent zoning on the
   property to our south and east boundaries, and the lot inventory, and scope of
   housing, would be similar and congruent with that already existing, and presently
   under construction, on both of those boundaries. This seems to us to be the logical
   congruent use of the land we have assembled, and most likely the use to have both
   the greatest demand of the public wishing to move to Draper and the greatest
   enhancement and protection for our neighboring communities all around us.


3. How is the requested land use designation harmonious with the overall
   character of existing development in the vicinity of the subject property?
   As mentioned in No. 2 (above), the exact use (nicer upgraded single-family
   residential homes on .25+ acre lots) is the predominant land use in this overall area
   and is the use predominating in the neighborhoods and communities immediately
   adjacent to us. This site is one of the last along the 700 West corridor which has
   enough acreage to accommodate multiple building lots. As such we feel families
   and individuals looking for nicer move-up single-family housing will find a wonderful
   spot here in which to invest their family's future. Our site, (which we have
   designedinto a full build-out of 16 single-family homesites over a total of 8.7 acres) is
   the natural fit for this rather awkward geographic shape, and, once built out (the 2n°
   phase will likely not be developing at the same time as the 1*t), fits perfectly,
   accommodates the removal of unsightly aged rental and storage structures, fills in a
   vital link (along the adjacent creek at the bottom of our east slope) an important flood
   control and recreational walking-trail corridor for the benefit of the City and its
   residents, and adds to the overall flow of this infill property. Each of the three
   separate parcels, in and of themselves, are difficult, if not impossible, to improve or
   develop, but assembled as we have, are a wonderful spot for housing opportunities
   and the enhancement of value to this passed-over in-fill area.



4. Is the proposed land use designation consistent with the goals, objectives,
   and policies of the City's General Plan?
   As to the issue of Density: whereas the City's General Plan calls for“Density range
   up to 2 dwelling units per acre”, our project, with a overall proposed yield of 16
   homesites on 8.737 acres results in a yield of 1.83 units/acre. This overall acreage
   and lot yield encompasses both phases (the entire site) once built out. This clearly
   meets, and even exceeds, that ever envisioned in the General Plan.

   The General Plan calls for“Reduction for non-buildable areas”. By assembling as we
   have, these three individual parcels, this project clearly meets that intention.

   Our requested zoning (R4) is clearly compatible with the area, it's present uses, and
   effectively absorbs the unique nature of this irregularly shaped in-fill site, utilizing
   and creating valuable living space while replacing aging and nonconforming former
   structures and updating utility services into the site.
   The stated Land Use Mix of the General Plan is meet by creating opportunities for
   single-family detached homes, and providing Park, Trail, and Open Spaces and
   either deeding same or granting use-easements of same to the City.
   1/3 Acre —3/4 Acre individual lots certainly qualify in most people's minds as “large
   lots” as called for in the General Plan for this area. Numerous trees, slopes with
   views, water (by way of the stream at the bottom of our east slope), and the views
   from this area would seem to us to qualify for the “natural features and vegetation”
   spoken of in the General Plan, and we intend to preserve these to the greatest
   degree possible in the development of the site.
