                                   ORDINANCE NO. 1651

        AN ORDINANCE OF DRAPER CITY AMENDING THE TEXT OF THE LAND USE AND
        DEVELOPMENT CODE OF THE DRAPER CITY MUNICIPAL CODE REGARDING NEW
        DISTRICTS, PERMITTED USES, AND DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS IN THE DRAPER
        POINTE MIXED USE COMMERCIAL SPECIAL DISTRICT.

      WHEREAS, Utah State law grants to Draper City the authority to regulate uses of
property by enacting land use regulations, among other methods; and

       WHEREAS, it is necessary from time to time to amend certain terms of the Draper City
Municipal Code to address provisions that become diminished in appropriateness,
applicability, or clarity; and

      WHEREAS, the Land Use and Development Code of the Draper City Municipal Code
has been established to provide regulations concerning development activity within the City
Boundaries; and

      WHEREAS, the City Council of Draper City adopted the Land Use and Development
Code to guide development within the City Boundaries; and

        WHEREAS, the City Council of Draper City finds good cause to revise the terms and
provisions of the Land Use and Development Code regarding the allowed primary materials
in the Southwestern Furniture Commercial Special District; and

      WHEREAS, notice has been issued according to the requirements of the Utah Code
Annotated and Draper City Municipal Code for public hearings before the Planning
Commission and City Council to receive public input regarding the revision of the Land Use
and Development Code; and

       WHEREAS, the Planning Commission and City Council have each held a public hearing
to receive public input regarding the revision of the Development Codes.

      NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF DRAPER CITY, STATE OF
UTAH, AS FOLLOWS:

       Section 1.      Findings. The City Council of Draper City has made the following
findings for the proposed text amendment to the Land Use and Development Code: 1. The
proposed amendment is consistent with goals, objectives and policies of the city's general
plan. 2. The proposed amendment furthers the specific purpose statements of the zoning
ordinance. 3. The proposed amendment is appropriate given the context of the request and
there is sufficient justification for a modification to the zoning ordinance. 4. The proposed
amendment will not create a conflict with any other section or part of the zoning ordinance

Ordinance No. 1651                            1                                    Academy Plaza
                                                                          Zoning Text Amendment
or the general plan. 5. The potential effects of the proposed amendment have been
evaluated and determined to be beneficial to public health, safety, and welfare and
represent an overall community benefit. 6. The proposed text amendment implements best
current, professional practices of urban planning, design, and engineering practices.

       Section 2.    Amendment. Sections 9-18H-010, 9-18H-020, 9-18H-030, 9-18H-040, 9-
18H-050, 9-18H-060, and 9-18H-100, of the Land Use and Development Code of the Draper
City Municipal Code are hereby amended to read as set forth in Exhibit A.

      Section 3.    Correction of Editing Errors. The city attorney is authorized to correct
any punctuation, spelling, formatting, clerical, or de minimis errors in Exhibit A prior to
submitting the ordinance for publishing.

        Section 4.   Severability. If any section, part or provision of this Ordinance is held
invalid or unenforceable, such invalidity or unenforceability shall not affect any other portion
of this Ordinance, and all sections, parts and provisions of this Ordinance shall be severable.

        Section 5.   Effective Date. This Ordinance shall become effective immediately
upon publication or posting, or 30 days after final passage, whichever is closer to the date of
final passage.

PASSED AND ADOPTED BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF DRAPER CITY, STATE OF UTAH,
ON THE 20th DAY OF MAY, 2025.

                                                   DRAPER CITY



                                                   _____________________________
                                                   Mayor Troy K. Walker

ATTEST:



_________________________________
Nicole Smedley, City Recorder




 VOTE TAKEN:                                           YES     NO        ABSENT
 Councilmember Green                                   ____    ____      ____
 Councilmember Johnson                                 ____    ____      ____
 Councilmember T. Lowery                               ____    ____      ____


Ordinance No. 1651                             2                                      Academy Plaza
                                                                             Zoning Text Amendment
 Councilmember F. Lowry       ____   ____   ____
 Councilmember Vawdrey        ____   ____   ____
 Mayor Walker                 ____   ____   ____




Ordinance No. 1651        3                             Academy Plaza
                                               Zoning Text Amendment
                                            EXHIBIT A

CHAPTER 18
COMMERCIAL SPECIAL DISTRICTS (CSD)
…
ARTICLE H. DRAPER POINTE MIXED USE COMMERCIAL
SPECIAL DISTRICT
…
9-18H-010: PURPOSE:
The Draper Pointe Mixed Use Commercial Special District contains approximately 76.71 acres,
as seen in section 9-18H-100, exhibit A of this article. It is bordered by 200 West on the east,
Galena Park Boulevard on the north and Bangerter Highway on the south. The 13490 South
Street runs through the project. The size of the property allows for a master planned, mixed use
project, with land uses such as office, residential, and general commercial, including retail
shops, and a hotel, personal and business services, and office/warehouse. The Draper City
general plan's goals and objectives are reflected in the overall design of the project, by
incorporating a mix of land uses, quality architecture, efficient site design and abundant
landscaping. The Commercial District of the master plan aims to broaden the commercial tax
base of the City while providing amenities to the City residents, such as an improved Galena
Park Boulevard, 13490 South and Vista Station Boulevard, and pedestrian access to Utah Transit
Authority FrontRunner Station. The Residential District will provide needed support for the
retail and office in the surrounding areas and the hotel will in turn support the office/business
uses.


9-18H-020: PERMITTED USES:
Bank or financial institution with drive-through.
Bar establishment.
Business equipment rental and supplies.
Business service.
Cashing services.
Church or place of worship.
Convenience store.
Cultural service.
Daycare, general.
Department store.
Dwelling, multiple-family.
Franchise Municipal use.
Gasoline service station.
Grooming service.
Government service.
Health and fitness facility.
Higher education facility, private.
Higher education facility, public.
Hotel.
Laundry or dry cleaning, limited.
Laundry services.
Media services.
Medical cannabis pharmacy.
Medical or dental laboratory.
Medical services.
Office, general.
Office, warehouse.
Personal care service.
Personal instruction service.
Post Office.
Preschool.
Printing and photocopying, limited.
Recreation and entertainment, indoor.
Repair service.
Research service.
Restaurant, fast food.
Restaurant, general.
Retail, general.
Secondhand or thrift store, small.
Tattoo establishment.
Trade/vocational school.
Veterinary service.
Wireless telecommunications facilities.


9-18H-030: DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS:
The development standards of the Draper Pointe Mixed Use Commercial Special District will
guide the design of the buildings, landscaping, parking, access and private streets, and signage
located within the district boundaries. The Master Plan provides for office, retail, residential,
general commercial, including retail shops, and hotel, personal and business services, and
office/warehouse development in designated areas in accordance with the development
standards set forth in this article.
A. Development District: Based on land use, each building shall comply with the following
   development standards for each corresponding district:
…
    5. Office/Warehouse
       a. All uses shall be entirely within an enclosed building.
       b. Architectural design shall be the primary method for establishing a distinct identity
          and sense of place within the Office/Warehouse District. Buildings must be
          articulated with use-appropriate scale, form, materials, and colors.
       c. Front and side building facades must share a consistent character, utilizing
          complementary materials, colors, features, forms, and design elements appropriate
          to the building’s size and depth.
       d. Rear building facades, which face truck drive aisles for access to roll-up doors, must
          be finished with material complementary to the other sides as approved by Draper
          City staff. The roll-up doors shall include transparent glass panel inserts.
       e. Primary building materials shall consist of granite, metal, composite metal panels,
          brick, stone, Exterior Insulation and Finish Systems (EIFS), concrete, Glass Fiber
          Reinforced Concrete (GFRC), tile, or similar material approved by Draper City staff.
       f. Front, side and rear facades must incorporate more than one of the
          abovementioned materials.
       g. Corner towers, which are wider and taller projections, shall be used to accentuate
          building corners and add visual interest to the front and sides.
       h. Optional individualized design features may also be included to accentuate a user's
          identity, logo and color scheme.
       i.   Prominent entry features are required and must include at least one of the
            following:
            (1) An arch or canopy over entry doors;
            (2) Complementary colors or materials that accentuate the entry; and
        (3) Entry doors with vestibules and/or lobbies that extend beyond or are recessed
            within the building's exterior footprint.
   j.   Building must incorporate a minimum of twenty percent (20%) high-efficiency
        glazing.
   k. Preferred design elements for Office/Warehouse include:
        (1) EFIS details.
        (2) EFIS or metal cornice trim.
        (3) EFIS trim.
        (4) Aluminum storefront window system.
        (5) Architectural grade exterior wall-mounted light fixture at the main building
            entrance.
        (6) Concrete tile panel.
   l.   No building shall exceed thirty feet (30') in height, measured from the finished
        grade.
   m. Horizontal or vertical facade variations must occur at least every fifty feet (50’) using
      at least two of the following;
        (1) Surface plane variations, such as pop-outs, bays, and recesses;
        (2) Surface pattern variations, such as arches, banding, and paneling;
        (3) Distinctive treatments of windows, doors, and eaves, including molding or
            framing. or
        (4) Distinctive changes in materials and colors.
   n. Wall extensions must screen truck docks and meet the following conditions:
        (1) Walls shall be at least twelve feet (12’) in height.
        (2) Wall finishes shall match the articulation, materials and colors of the building
            side wall.
        (3) Landscaping, including shrubs and trees, shall be placed in front of the wall for
            screening.
   o. All mechanical equipment shall be screened from view using complementary
      material, colored enclosure, or a parapet wall.
   p. Dumpsters shall be enclosed within a decorative masonry, split face CMU or honed
      CMU enclosure.
   q. Secondary pedestrian entrances shall feature overhangs, lighting and enhanced
      landscaping.
6. Vertical Mixed Use (Retail/Restaurant Under Office)
a. Outside storage is prohibited.
b. All lots, structures, and uses shall be in accordance with the following standards.
   (1) No minimum or maximum lot width.
   (2) Minimum front yard setback is ten feet (10').
   (3) No building shall exceed two (2) stories, excluding the mechanical penthouse.
   (4) Minimum distance between buildings is twenty (20) feet.
c. Mixed-Use Design Required: Buildings must include retail, service commercial,
   restaurant space, personal services and business services or similar uses listed in
   Section 9-18H-020: Permitted Uses on the first floor and office space or similar uses
   listed in Section 9-18H-020: Permitted Uses on the second floor.
d. Site Design
   (1) Position buildings to face 13490 South.
   (2) Ensure cross-access for vehicles and pedestrians between adjacent properties.
   (3) Enclose dumpsters within decorative masonry, split face CMU, or honed CMU
       structures.
e. Main entrances must feature at least three of the following:
   (1) Entry doors and lobby that extend beyond or are recessed behind the building's
       exterior footprint.
   (2) Unique architectural features;
   (3) Individualized design features that accentuate a user's identity, logo and color
        scheme.
   (4) Distinct but complementary building materials or colors;
   (5) Increased use of windows or glass;
   (6) Pedestrian amenities such as patios, porches, special paving treatments, seating
       areas, or awnings; or
   (7) Increased landscaping.
f. Facade Articulation. All buildings must include horizontal and vertical façade
   articulation. Flat facades, single wall heights, and monotone color schemes are not
   permitted.
g. Façade Variations. Implement horizontal or vertical facade variations at least every
   thirty feet (30’) using a minimum of two of the following:
   (1) Surface plane variations, such as pop-outs, bays, or recesses;
   (2) Surface pattern variations, such as arches, banding, or paneling;
   (3) Distinctive treatment of windows, doors, and eaves with molding or framing or
            (4) Distinctive changes in building materials and colors.
       h. Height and Roofline. Varied roofline and parapet heights are required to avoid
          continuous, single-height roofline expanses. Buildings must:
            (1) Limit rooflines and parapets to no longer than fifty feet (50’) without height
                variations.
            (2) Use similar materials and colors on visible backs of false fronts, parapets, or
                cornices for consistency.
            (3) Screen roof-mounted mechanical equipment and similar systems. Any portion of
                this equipment that is not fully shielded must be painted the color of the roofing
                or parapet materials.
       i.   Screen roof-mounted mechanical equipment and similar systems. Any unshielded
            portions must match the color of the roofing or parapet materials.
       j.   Each elevation must include a minimum of three colors to enhance visual interest.
       k. Ensure that at least twenty percent (20%) of the building features high-efficiency
          glazing to improve energy efficiency and aesthetics.
       l.   Pedestrian-Friendly Design. Enhance pedestrian activity and social interaction by:
            (1) Designing principal walkways to be at least six feet (6’) wide for side-by-side
                walking,
            (2) Providing shaded seating and gathering areas.
            (3) Separating pedestrian paths from vehicles by at least five feet (5’) using low
                evergreen hedges, walls, or other approved pedestrian features.
       m. Buildings must have a clearly articulated pedestrian-scale base between four (4’) and
          six feet (6’) in height to enhance the pedestrian experience.
       …
9-18H-040: LANDSCAPE STANDARDS:
Landscape design is a major component of the Draper Pointe Mixed Use Commercial Special
District. The overall project shall be landscaped with sensitivity to its environment. A consistent
palette of drought tolerant tree types, plant materials, and ground covers shall be incorporated
throughout in relation to the architecture to create a strong and consistent sense of place and
identity. The tree and plant palette shall be submitted in conjunction with specific site plan
approval application for each phase. The landscape design shall comply with the following
standards:
…
L. Plan Submitted: All multi-family, office/warehouse and vertical mixed use projects shall
   submit a landscaping plan in accordance with chapter 23, "Landscaping And Screening", of
   this title.
    1. Landscaping shall be used as a land use buffer where appropriate.
    2. To minimize the noise impacts of truck traffic on the nearby residential units, a
       landscaped buffer of twenty-five feet (25’) in width shall be planted along the shared
       boundary of the office/warehouse and residential areas based on the following criteria:
       a. Evergreen hedges such as Emerald Green Arborvitae and shrubs such as
          Wintergreen Boxwood or similar varieties approved by the Planning Division shall be
          planted at a four (4) foot minimum height and spaced at ten (10) feet on center
          along the length of the landscaped area.
       b. Evergreen trees such as Norway Spruce, kindred spirit, or similar varieties approved
          by the Planning Division shall be planted at a minimum height of six (6) feet and
          spaced twenty (20) feet on center along the length of the landscaped area.
    2. 3. Detention basins shall be adequately landscaped and maintained.
    3. 4. Drought tolerant landscaping is highly encouraged.


9-18H-050: PARKING STANDARDS:
Each parking area will be configured to reduce the appearance of large asphalt areas and be
designed in accordance with the following standards:
…
H. Office/Warehouse Parking Provisions.
    1. The provisions for "Deviations From Strict Compliance For Parking," as outlined in
       Section 9-25-090, are applicable.
    2. Parking requirements must adhere to the formulas specified in Table 9-25-1.
I. Vertical Mixed Use (Retail/Restaurant Under Office) Parking Provisions.
    1. The provisions for "Deviations From Strict Compliance For Parking," as outlined in
       Section 9-25-090 shall apply.
    2. The parking formulas found in Table 9-25-1 shall be used to determine the appropriate
       number of parking spaces required.
    3. Developers are encouraged to implement "Shared Use Parking" strategies as permitted
       by Draper City Code Section 9-25-050 (C). This approach helps prevent over-parking by
       allowing different users to share parking facilities at different times, optimizing space
       usage and reducing unnecessary pavement.


9-18H-060: LIGHTING STANDARDS:
A. Illumination: Parking lot lighting in commercial areas, including Office/Warehouse and
   Vertical Mixed Use (Retail/Restaurant Under Office), shall provide adequate illumination at
   a minimum 0.5 foot-candle and maximum of four (4) foot-candles.
B. Fixture Type: Parking lot lighting in commercial and office areas, including
   Office/Warehouse and Vertical Mixed Use (Retail/Restaurant Under Office), shall utilize
   cutoff type fixtures.
   …
9-18H-100: EXHIBITS:
EXHIBIT A - PROJECT AREA
200 West
EXHIBIT B - SITE PLANS
Office/Commercial/Residential South
Site Plans
Residential, Retail And Hotel
EXHIBIT B - SITE PLANS
Office/Commercial/Residential South
Office/Warehouse and Vertical Mixed Use (Retail/Restaurant Under Office)
EXHIBIT C
Land Use Master Plan
…
EXHIBIT H
SAMPLE OFFICE/WAREHOUSE & VERTICAL MIXED USE BUILDINGS




Office/Warehouse




Vertical Mixed Use
EXHIBIT H I
LANDSCAPING
…
EXHIBIT I J
SITE LIGHTING
…
EXHIBIT J K
SIGNAGE
…
