                                    DRAPER CITY CONTRACT

CONTRACTING PARTIES: This contract is between Draper City, a municipality and political subdivision
of the State of Utah and the following CONTRACTOR:
                                                        LEGAL STATUS OF CONTRACTOR
     “CONTRACTOR”                                       [ ] Sole Proprietor
     Ace Recycling & Disposal Services                  [ ] Non-Profit Corporation
     2274 South Technology Drive                        [ ] For-Profit Corporation
     West Valley City, UT 84119                         [ ] Partnership
     Zachary Buhler 801-363-9995                        [ ] Government Agency
                                                        [x] Limited Liability Company

                                                        Federal Tax ID #87-0481948

      1. GENERAL PURPOSE OF CONTRACT: The general purpose of this contract is to
         provide comprehensive curbside collection, transportation, and disposal of solid
         waste and the collection and processing of curbside recyclable materials for
         residential properties within the city limits located on private streets; currently
         serviced by Draper City Solid Waste as outlined in RFP 25-13.

      2. PROCUREMENT: This contract is entered into as a result of an RFP Request for
         Proposal 25-15.

      3. CONTRACT PERIOD: Effective date: November 01, 2025. Termination date:
         November 01, 2030, unless terminated early or extended in accordance with the
         terms and conditions of this contract. If unforeseen delays occur, the contract may
         be extended by up to 90 days by mutual written agreement of the parties.

      4. RENEWAL OPTIONS: Two (2) additional three (3) year renewals.

      5. CONTRACT COSTS: CONTRACTOR will be paid according to the Price Sheet in
         ATTACHMENT D.

         Invoices shall be submitted within 30 days of deliverable acceptance, with payments
         made within 30 days of receipt of a correct invoice.

      6. ATTACHMENT A: Standard Terms and Conditions

      7. ATTACHMENT B: Insurance Requirements

      8. ATTACHMENT C: Scope of Work

      9. ATTACHMENT D: Cost Sheet

      10. CONFLICT RESOLUTION: Any conflicts between Attachment A and other
          Attachments will be resolved in favor of Attachment A.

      11. DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED INTO THIS CONTRACT BY REFERENCE BUT NOT
          ATTACHED:
              A. All applicable governmental laws, regulations, or actions relevant to the
                 services authorized by this contract.
              B. Draper City’s Procurement Policies, the Request for Proposal (RFP 25-13),
                 and Contractor’s response to RFP, which was submitted to the City on
                 05/28/2025 by the Contractor.


          IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties sign and cause this contract to be executed.
                                                                                                  1
   CONTRACTOR:                           DRAPER CITY:



   __________________________            ______________________________
   Contractor’s Signature                Department Head’s Signature
   Date: _____________                   Date: _____________
   __________________________
   Type or Print Name and Title

                                         ______________________________
                                         City Manager’s Signature
                                         Date: _____________

Attest:                           Approved As To Form:



___________________________       _________________________
City Recorder                     City Attorney



Date: ______________________      Date: ____________________




                   ATTACHMENT A: STANDARD TERMS AND CONDITIONS


                                                                          2
1. AUTHORITY: Provisions of this Contract are pursuant to the authority set forth in Draper
   City’s Municipal Code Chapter 3-3. Mandatory applicable state and federal law and
   regulations also apply.

2. CONTRACT JURISDICTION, CHOICE OF LAW, AND VENUE: The provisions of this Contract
   shall be governed by the laws of the State of Utah. The parties will submit to the jurisdiction
   of the courts of the State of Utah for any dispute arising out of this Contract or the breach
   thereof. Venue shall be in Salt Lake County, Utah.

3. RECORDS ADMINISTRATION: The CONTRACTOR shall maintain, or supervise the maintenance
   of all records necessary to properly account for the payments made to the CONTRACTOR for
   costs authorized by this contract. These records shall be retained by the CONTRACTOR for at
   least four years after the contract terminates, or until all audits initiated within the four years,
   have been completed, whichever is later.

4. AUDIT OF RECORDS: The CONTRACTOR agrees to allow City, State, and Federal auditors,
   access to all the records to this contract, for audit and inspection, and monitoring of
   services. Such access will be during normal business hours, or by appointment.

5. CONFLICT OF INTEREST: Contractor represents that none of its officers or employees are
   officers or employees of Draper City, unless disclosure has been made in accordance with
   City ordinances and policies. Further, contractor certifies that it has not offered or given
   any gift or compensation prohibited by local, state, or federal law, to any officer or
   employee of Draper City to secure favorable treatment with respect to being awarded this
   Contract.

6. INSURANCE: See Attachment B.

7. CONTRACTOR, AN INDEPENDENT CONTRACTOR: Contractor shall be an independent
   contractor, and as such shall have no authorization, express or implied to bind Draper City
   to any agreements, settlements, liability or understanding whatsoever, and agrees not to
   perform any acts as agent for the City, except as expressly set forth herein. The
   CONTRACTOR shall be responsible for the payment of all income tax and social security
   amounts due as a result of payments received from the CITY for these contract services.
   Persons employed by the CITY and acting under the direction of the CITY shall not be
   deemed to be employees or agents of the CONTRACTOR. The contractor shall ensure that
   all subcontractors comply with all terms of this Agreement, including insurance, indemnity,
   and standard of care requirements.

8. INDEMNITY CLAUSE: The CONTRACTOR agrees to indemnify, defend, save harmless, and
   release Draper City, and all its officers, agents, volunteers, and employees from and against
   any and all loss, damages, injury, liability, suits, and proceedings arising out of the


                                                                                                     3
   performance of this contract which are caused in whole or in part by the negligence of the
   CONTRACTOR'S officers, agents, volunteers, or employees, but not for claims arising from
   the City's sole negligence. This clause shall survive the termination or expiration of the
   contract.

9. EQUAL OPPORTUNITY CLAUSE: The CONTRACTOR agrees to abide by the provisions of Title
   VI and VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 (42USC 2000e) which prohibits discrimination
   against any employee or applicant for employment or any applicant or recipient of
   services, on the basis of race, religion, color, or national origin; and further agrees to abide
   by Executive Order No. 11246, as amended, which prohibits discrimination on the basis of
   sex; 45 CFR 90 which prohibits discrimination on the basis of age; and Section 504 of the
   Rehabilitation Act of 1973, or the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990 which prohibits
   discrimination on the basis of disabilities. Also, the CONTRACTOR agrees to abide by Utah's
   Executive Order, dated June 30, 1989, which prohibits sexual harassment in the workplace.

10. SEVERABILITY CLAUSE: A declaration by any court, or any other binding legal source, that
    any provision of this contract is illegal and void shall not affect the legality and
    enforceability of any other provision of this contract, unless the provisions are mutually
    dependent.

11. RENEGOTIATION OR MODIFICATIONS: This contract may be amended, modified, or
    supplemented only by written amendment to the contract, executed by the parties hereto,
    and attached to the original signed copy of the contract.

12. DEBARMENT: The CONTRACTOR certifies that neither it nor its principals are presently
    debarred, suspended, proposed for debarment, declared ineligible, or voluntarily excluded
    from participation in this transaction (contract), by any governmental department or
    agency. If the CONTRACTOR cannot certify this statement, attach a written explanation for
    review by the City.


13. SALES TAX EXEMPTION: Draper City’s sales and use tax exemption number is 12605025-
    002-STC. The tangible personal property or services being purchased are being paid from
    City funds and used in the exercise of the City’s essential functions. If the items being
    purchased are construction materials, they will be converted into real property by
    employees of the City.

14. WARRANTY: The contractor agrees to warrant and assume responsibility for all products or
    services that it licenses, contracts, or sells to Draper City under this contract for a period of
    one year, unless otherwise specified and mutually agreed upon elsewhere in this contract.
    Product liability disclaimers and/or warranty disclaimers from the seller are not applicable
    to this contract unless otherwise specified and mutually agreed upon elsewhere in this
    contract. In general, the contractor warrants that: (1) the product or services will do what


                                                                                                    4
   the salesperson said it would do, (2) the product or services will live up to all specific claims
   that the manufacturer makes in their advertisements, (3) the product or services will be
   suitable for the ordinary purposes for which such product is used, (4) the product or
   services will be suitable for any special purposes that Draper City has relied on the
   contractor’s skill or judgment to consider when it advised the City about the product or
   services and in response to the RFP, (5) the product has been properly designed and
   manufactured, and (6) the product is free of significant defects or unusual problems about
   which the City has not been warned. Remedies available to Draper City include the
   following: The contractor will repair or replace (at no charge to the City) the product or
   services whose nonconformance is discovered and made known to the contractor in
   writing. The contractor shall repair or replace (at no charge to the City) all non- conforming
   products and services that the City discovers and makes known to the Contractor in
   writing. Nothing in this warranty will be construed to limit any rights or remedies Draper
   City may otherwise have under this contract or provided under the Uniform Commercial
   Code of the State of Utah.

15. LAWS AND REGULATIONS: At all times during this Contract, Contractor and all Procurement
    Items delivered and/or performed under this Contract will comply with all applicable
    federal and state constitutions, laws, rules, codes, orders, and regulations, including
    applicable licensure and certification requirements. If this Contract is funded by federal
    funds, either in whole or in part, then any federal regulation related to the federal funding,
    including CFR Appendix II to Part 200, will supersede this Attachment A.

16. TERMINATION: This Contract may be terminated, with cause by either party, in advance of
    the specified expiration date, upon written notice given by the other party. The party in
    violation will be given ten (10) days after written notification to correct and cease the
    violations, after which this Contract may be terminated for cause immediately and is
    subject to the remedies listed below. This Contract may also be terminated without cause
    (for convenience), in advance of the specified expiration date, by Draper, upon thirty (30)
    days written termination notice being given to the Contractor. Draper and the Contractor
    may terminate this Contract, in whole or in part, at any time, by mutual agreement in
    writing. On termination of this Contract, all accounts and payments will be processed
    according to the financial arrangements set forth herein for approved Services ordered
    prior to date of termination.

17. NONAPPROPRIATION OF FUNDS, REDUCTION OF FUNDS, OR CHANGES IN LAW: Upon
   thirty (30) days written notice delivered to the Contractor, this Contract may be terminated
   in whole or in part at the sole discretion of Draper, if Draper reasonably determines that: (i)
   a change in Federal or State legislation or applicable laws materially affects the ability of
   either party to perform under the terms of this Contract; or (ii) that a change in available
   funds affects Draper’s ability to pay under this Contract. A change of available funds as
   used in this paragraph includes, but is not limited to, a change in Federal or State funding,
   whether as a result of a legislative act or by order of the President or the Governor.

                                                                                                   5
   If a written notice is delivered under this section, Draper will reimburse Contractor for the
   Services properly ordered until the effective date of said notice. Draper will not be liable for
   any performance, commitments, penalties, or liquidated damages that accrue after the
   effective date of said written notice.

18. SUSPENSION OF WORK: Should circumstances arise which would cause Draper to suspend
   Contractor’s responsibilities under this Contract, but not terminate this Contract, this will
   be done by written notice. Contractor’s responsibilities may be reinstated upon advance
   formal written notice from Draper.

19. PUBLIC INFORMATION: Contractor agrees that this Contract, related purchase orders,
   related pricing documents, and invoices will be public documents and may be available for
   public and private distribution in accordance with the State of Utah’s Government Records
   Access and Management Act (GRAMA). Contractor gives Draper and the State of Utah
   express permission to make copies of this Contract, related sales orders, related pricing
   documents, and invoices in accordance with GRAMA. Except for sections identified in
   writing by Contractor and expressly approved by the State of Utah Division of Purchasing
   and General Services, Contractor also agrees that the Contractor’s Proposal to the
   Solicitation will be a public document, and copies may be given to the public as permitted
   under GRAMA. Draper is not obligated to inform Contractor of any GRAMA requests for
   disclosure of this Contract, related purchase orders, related pricing documents, or invoices.

20. ACCEPTANCE AND REJECTION: Draper shall have thirty (30) days after the performance of
   the Services to perform an inspection of the Services to determine whether the Services
   conform to the standards specified in the Solicitation and this Contract prior to acceptance
   of the Services by Draper.

   If Contractor delivers nonconforming Services, Draper may, at its option and at Contractor’s
   expense: (i) return the Services for a full refund; (ii) require Contractor to promptly correct
   or reperform the nonconforming Services subject to the terms of this Contract; or (iii)
   obtain replacement Services from another source, subject to Contractor being responsible
   for any cover costs.

21. INVOICING: Contractor will submit invoices within thirty (30) days of Contractor’s
    performance of the Services to Draper. The contract number shall be listed on all invoices,
    freight tickets, and correspondence relating to this Contract. The prices paid by Draper will
    be those prices listed in this Contract, unless Contractor offers a prompt payment discount
    within its Proposal or on its invoice. Draper has the right to adjust or return any invoice
    reflecting incorrect pricing.



22. PAYMENT: Payments are to be made within thirty (30) days after a correct invoice is

                                                                                                  6
   received. The acceptance by Contractor of final payment, without a written protest filed
   with Draper within ten (10) business days of receipt of final payment, shall release Draper
   from all claims and all liability to the Contractor. Draper’s payment for the Services shall not
   be deemed an acceptance of the Services and is without prejudice to any and all claims
   that Draper may have against Contractor. Draper will not allow the Contractor to charge
   end users electronic payment fees of any kind.

23. TIME IS OF THE ESSENCE: The Services shall be completed by any applicable deadline
    stated in this Contract. For all Services, time is of the essence. Contractor shall be liable for
    all reasonable damages to Draper and anyone for whom Draper may be liable as a result of
    Contractor’s failure to timely perform the Services required under this Contract.

24. CHANGES IN SCOPE: Any changes in the scope of the Services to be performed under this
    Contract shall be in the form of a written amendment to this Contract, mutually agreed to
    and signed by both parties, specifying any such changes, fee adjustments, any adjustment
    in time of performance, or any other significant factors arising from the changes in the
    scope of Services.

25. STANDARD OF CARE: The Services of Contractor and its Subcontractors shall be performed
    in accordance with the standard of care exercised by licensed members of their respective
    professions having substantial experience providing similar services which similarities
    include the type, magnitude, and complexity of the Services that are the subject of this
    Contract. Contractor shall be liable to Draper and the State of Utah for claims, liabilities,
    additional burdens, penalties, damages, or third party claims (e.g., another Contractor’s
    claim against the State of Utah), to the extent caused by wrongful acts, errors, or omissions
    that do not meet this standard of care.

26. REVIEWS: Draper reserves the right to perform plan checks, plan reviews, other reviews,
    and/or comment upon the Services of Contractor. Such reviews do not waive the
    requirement of Contractor to meet all of the terms and conditions of this Contract.

27. ASSIGNMENT: Contractor may not assign, sell, transfer, subcontract or sublet rights, or
    delegate any right or obligation under this Contract, in whole or in part, without the prior
    written approval of Draper.

28. REMEDIES: Any of the following events will constitute cause for Draper to declare
    Contractor in default of this Contract: (i) Contractor’s non-performance of its contractual
    requirements and obligations under this Contract; or (ii) Contractor’s material breach of
    any term or condition of this Contract. Draper may issue a written notice of default
    providing a ten (10) day period in which Contractor will have an opportunity to cure. Time
    allowed for cure will not diminish or eliminate Contractor's liability for damages. If the
    default remains after Contractor has been provided the opportunity to cure, Draper may
    do one or more of the following: (i) exercise any remedy provided by law or equity; (ii)

                                                                                                   7
   terminate this Contract; (iii) impose liquidated damages, if liquidated damages are listed in
   this Contract; (iv) debar/suspend Contractor from receiving future contracts from Draper or
   the State of Utah; or (v) demand a full refund of any payment that Draper has made to
   Contractor under this Contract for Services that do not conform to this Contract.

29. FORCE MAJEURE: Neither party to this Contract will be held responsible for delay or default
    caused by fire, riot, act of God, and/or war which is beyond that party's reasonable control.
    Draper may terminate this Contract after determining such delay will prevent successful
    performance of this Contract.

30. WAIVER: A waiver of any right, power, or privilege shall not be construed as a waiver of any
    subsequent right, power, or privilege.

31. ATTORNEY FEES: In the event of any judicial action to enforce rights under this Contract,
    the prevailing party shall be entitled its costs and expenses, including reasonable attorneys’
    fees incurred in connection with such action.

32. PROCUREMENT ETHICS: Contractor understands that a person who is interested in any
    way in the sale of any supplies, services, construction, or insurance to Draper is violating
    the law if the person gives or offers to give any compensation, gratuity, contribution, loan,
    reward, or any promise thereof to any person acting as a procurement officer on behalf of
    Draper, or to any person in any official capacity participates in the procurement of such
    supplies, services, construction, or insurance, whether it is given for their own use or for
    the use or benefit of any other person or organization.

33. DISPUTE RESOLUTION: Prior to either party filing a judicial proceeding, the parties agree to
    participate in the mediation of any dispute. Draper, after consultation with the Contractor,
    may appoint an expert or panel of experts to assist in the resolution of a dispute. If Draper
    appoints such an expert or panel, Draper and Contractor agree to cooperate in good faith
    in providing information and documents to the expert or panel in an effort to resolve the
    dispute.

34. SURVIVAL OF TERMS: Termination or expiration of this Contract shall not extinguish or
    prejudice Draper’s right to enforce this Contract with respect to any default or defect in the
    Services that has not been cured.

35. SEVERABILITY: The invalidity or unenforceability of any provision, term, or condition of this
    Contract shall not affect the validity or enforceability of any other provision, term, or
    condition of this Contract, which shall remain in full force and effect.




36. ENTIRE AGREEMENT: This Contract constitutes the entire agreement between the parties

                                                                                                    8
and supersedes any and all other prior and contemporaneous agreements and
understandings between the parties, whether oral or written.

37. CONFIDENTIALITY: Contractor shall treat all sensitive data, including water infrastructure
details, as confidential and not disclose such information except as required by law or with
Draper City’s written consent, in accordance with Utah’s Government Records Access and
Management Act (GRAMA).




                                                                                                 9
                       ATTACHMENT B: INSURANCE REQUIREMENTS

Contractor shall procure and maintain for the duration of the contract insurance against
claims for injuries to persons or damages to property, which may arise from or in connection
with the performance of the work hereunder, and the results of that work by the Contractor,
his agents, representatives, employees or subcontractors.
MINIMUM SCOPE AND LIMIT OF INSURANCE
Coverage shall be at least as broad as:
   1. Commercial General Liability (CGL): Comprehensive General Liability Insurance on an
      “occurrence” basis, including products and completed operations, property damage,
      bodily injury and personal & advertising injury with limits no less than $2,000,000 per
      occurrence. If a general aggregate limit applies, either the general aggregate limit
      shall apply separately to this project/location or the general aggregate limit shall be
      twice the required occurrence limit.
   2. Automobile Liability: Auto Liability insurance covering any auto, or if Contractor has
      no owned autos, hired, and non-owned autos, with limit no less than $1,000,000 per
      accident for bodily injury and property damage.
   3. Workers’ Compensation: Workers’ Compensation insurance with statutory limits as
      required by the Workers’ Compensation Act of the State of Utah unless a waiver of
      coverage is allowed and acquired pursuant to Utah law and Employer’s Liability
      Insurance with limit of no less than $1,000,000 per accident for bodily injury or
      disease. This requirement does not apply to individuals not employed with a
      company or other commercial entity.
       If the Contractor maintains broader coverage and/or higher limits than the minimums
       shown above, Draper City requires and shall be entitled to the broader coverage
       and/or the higher limits maintained by the contractor. Any available insurance
       proceeds in excess of the specified minimum limits of insurance and coverage shall
       be available to Draper City.
   4. Professional Liability (Errors and Omissions): Insurance appropriate to the
      Consultant’s profession, with limit no less than $2,000,000 per occurrence or claim,
      $2,000,000 aggregate.
       If the Contractor maintains broader coverage and/or higher limits than the minimums
       shown above, Draper City requires and shall be entitled to the broader coverage
       and/or the higher limits maintained by the contractor. Any available insurance
       proceeds in excess of the specified minimum limits of insurance and coverage shall
       be available to Draper City.
Other Insurance Provisions
The insurance policies are to contain, or be endorsed to contain, the following provisions:



                                                                                          10
Additional Insured Status
Draper City, its officers, officials, employees, and volunteers are to be covered as additional
insureds on the CGL policy with respect to liability arising out of work or operations
performed by or on behalf of the Contractor including materials, parts, or equipment
furnished in connection with such work or operations. General liability coverage shall be
provided in the form of an endorsement.
Primary Coverage
For any claims related to this contract, the Contractor’s insurance coverage shall be primary
coverage as respects Draper City, its officers, officials, employees, and volunteers. Any
insurance or self-insurance maintained by Draper city, its officers, officials, employees, or
volunteers shall be excess of the Contractor’s insurance and shall not contribute with it.
Notice of Cancellation
Each insurance policy required above shall provide that coverage shall not be canceled,
except with notice to Draper City.
Waiver of Subrogation
Contractor hereby grants to Draper City a waiver of any right to subrogation, which any
insurer of said Contractor may acquire against Draper City by virtue of the payment of any
loss under such insurance. Contractor agrees to obtain any endorsement that may be
necessary to affect this waiver of subrogation, but this provision applies regardless of
whether or not Draper City has received a waiver of subrogation endorsement from the
insurer.
Self-Insured Retentions
Self-insured retentions must be declared to and approved by Draper City. Draper City may
require the Contractor to purchase coverage with a lower retention or provide proof of ability
to pay losses and related investigations, claim administration, and defense expenses within
the retention. The policy language shall provide, or be endorsed to provide, that the self-
insured retention may be satisfied by either the named insured or Entity.
Acceptability of Insurers
Insurance is to be placed with insurers authorized to conduct business in the state with a
current A.M. Best’s rating of no less than A:VII, unless otherwise acceptable to Draper City.
Claims Made Policies
If any of the required policies provide claims-made coverage:
      1. The Retroactive Date must be shown, and must be before the date of the contract
         or the beginning of contract work.
      2. Insurance must be maintained and evidence of insurance must be provided for at
          least five (5) years after completion of the contract of work.
      3. If coverage is canceled or non-renewed, and not replaced with another claims-
         made policy form with a Retroactive Date prior to the contract effective date, the



                                                                                            11
         Contractor must purchase “extended reporting” coverage for a minimum of five (5)
         years after completion of work.
Verification of Coverage
Contractor shall furnish Draper City with original Certificates of Insurance including all
required amendatory endorsements (or copies of the applicable policy language effecting
coverage required by this clause) and a copy of the Declarations and Endorsement Page of
the CGL policy listing all policy endorsements to Draper City before work begins. However,
failure to obtain the required documents prior to the work beginning shall not waive the
Contractor’s obligation to provide them. Draper City reserves the right to require complete,
certified copies of all required insurance policies, including endorsements required by these
specifications, at any time.
Special Risks or Circumstances
Draper City reserves the right to modify these requirements, including limits, based on the
nature of the risk, prior experience, insurer, coverage, or other special circumstances.
Notice of Incident or Accident
Contractor shall agree to disclose to Draper City, all incidents or occurrences of accident,
injury, and/or property damage covered by the insurance policy or policies.
Indemnification
Contractor shall indemnify, defend and hold harmless Draper City, its elected officials,
officers, agents, employees and volunteers from all damages, costs or expenses in law or
equity, including attorneys’ fees, that may at any time arise or be set up because of
damages to property, bodily injury or personal injury received by reason of or in the course
of providing goods and services provided to Draper City which may be occasioned by any
willful, negligent or wrongful act or omission of that contracting party, any of their
employees or any subcontractors.




                                                                                          12
                            ATTACHMENT C: SCOPE OF WORK

1.0   Scope of Work (SOW)
      The contractor will be responsible for providing the following comprehensive
      waste management services:

      A. Services Contractor will provide all personnel, supervision, materials,
         equipment, labor, and all other items necessary to complete the following:

            a. Mixed Waste Collection.
                  i. Contractor will provide weekly curbside collection of mixed
                     waste for all residential curbside mixed waste in approved
                     containers within Draper. This includes:
                 ii. Weekly curbside collection of mixed solid waste from all
                     residential curbside approved containers within the city limits;
                iii. Transport and delivery of collected waste to a permitted and
                     approved solid waste disposal facility;

            b. Recycling Collection.
                 i.  Contractor will provide curbside collection and delivery of
                     recyclables to an approved Materials Recovery Facility (MRF)
                     every other week for all residential curbside recycling in
                     approved containers.

                 ii.    Contractor will, upon request, provide accurate industry
                        information, statistics, and trends to assist the City in developing
                        and implementing public education initiatives to promote
                        recycling and waste reduction among residents.

      B. Materials Collected

            a. Mixed Waste. Contractor will collect all residential mixed solid waste
               that is placed curbside in an approved container with the following
               exceptions:

                  i.    Waste that does not fit in an approved container;
                 ii.    Hazardous waste as defined by the United States
                        Environmental Protection Agency, the Utah Department of
                        Environmental Quality, or the Salt Lake County Health
                        Department, or
                 iii.   Un-processable waste as defined and prohibited by the waste
                        disposal facility.
                 iv.    In cases where an approved container is not collected for one of
                        the above-listed reasons, Contractor must notify the resident by
                        tagging the container stating the reason.


                                                                                         13
     b.    Recycling.
          Contractor will collect all acceptable residential recyclable
          materials, as defined by the waste disposal facility and as
          determined regularly by Contractor and the City, which are placed
          curbside in the approved containers with the following exceptions:

            i.    Material that does not fit in an approved container; or
           ii.    Hazardous waste as defined by the United States
                  Environmental Protection Agency, the Utah Department of
                  Environmental Quality, or the Salt Lake County Health
                  Department.
           iii.   In cases where an approved container is not collected for
                  one of the above-listed reasons, Contractor must notify the
                  resident by tagging the container with a notification stating
                  the reason.

C. Collection Operation.

      a. Collection Equipment.
         Contractor agrees to provide an adequate number of vehicles for
         regular collection services. Vehicles and equipment used by
         Contractor must be kept in good condition and repair, good
         appearance, and in a sanitary condition at all times. Vehicles must
         be maintained properly at all times to reduce unnecessary noise,
         prevent leaking oil or hydraulic fluids, and to ensure safe operations
         on City streets. Vehicles must also be properly inspected and meet
         all State and local requirements applicable to such vehicles. In
         addition, each vehicle utilized in the performance of this Agreement
         must be equipped, at a minimum, with operable safety equipment,
         a back-up camera, a back-up alarm, safety triangles, flashers, and
         tire chains. Each vehicle must have the name of Contractor and a
         vehicle identification number clearly visible on each side of the
         vehicle.

            i.    Equipment List. Contractor agrees to furnish the City with a
                  list indicating the vehicles assigned primarily to the City for
                  waste services. Contractor will provide vehicles and
                  equipment, including loading arms, that are designed and
                  maintained in such a manner so as to not gouge, scrape,
                  crush, peel or otherwise damage containers.

           ii.    Spillage. All solid waste hauled by Contractor must be
                  contained or enclosed to prevent leaking, spilling or blowing
                  out of the solid waste. In the event of any dumping, spillage,
                  or leaking, Contractor must immediately clean up the litter or
                  spill. Contractor must immediately clean up any fluid leaking

                                                                                  14
             from Contractor's equipment. Additionally, the City may
             require Contractor to pay for an asphalt treatment to be
             determined by the City to mitigate the aesthetic effects of a
             spill.

      iii.   Placement of Container after Waste is Dumped into Vehicle.
             Once Contractor has emptied a container, Contractor agrees
             to make all reasonable effort to place the containers in an
             appropriate location in an upright position. If there is any
             obstacle or obstruction preventing such placement,
             Contractor will make reasonable efforts to notify the property
             owner of the obstruction. Contractor will take immediate
             action on complaints regarding misplaced containers that are
             not a result of weather-related problems or conditions over
             which Contractor has no control including snow, wind, and
             vehicle or pedestrian traffic.

      iv.    Litter. Contractor may not litter on any premises in the
             process of making collections. Contractor is not required to
             collect or cleanup material that has not been placed properly
             in the approved manner provided herein. Contractor must
             respond to complaints regarding spilled litter caused by
             Contractor within four business hours.

b.   Disposal Facilities.

       i.    All residential mixed waste must be hauled by Contractor to
             an approved landfill as required by state and local
             government regulations. Contractor must be familiar with
             and abide by all rules, regulations, laws, and contract
             provisions related to the use of the disposal facilities.

      ii.    Contractor must haul all residential recycling material to an
             approved recycling processing center. Contractor must be
             familiar with and abide by all rules, regulations, laws, and
             contract provisions related to the use of the recycling facility.

      iii.   Contractor is responsible for any and all surcharges, civil or
             criminal penalties, fines and other costs which may be
             imposed by the approved landfill, the approved recycling
             center, or other State and local government agencies for
             overweight trucks, unsecured loads, and any other violations
             of laws or regulations required for the performance of this
             Agreement.




                                                                            15
     c. Collection Schedule.

              i.    Normal Collection Schedule. Contractor must follow a collection
                    schedule approved by the City.
                    Holiday Collection Schedule. Contractor is not required to
                    collect on the following holidays:

                       •   New Year's Day
                       •   Independence Day
                       •   Thanksgiving Day
                       •   Christmas Day

              ii.   If Contractor does not collect on a holiday, Contractor must
                    collect on the next business day.

             iii.   Time of collection. Contractor may not collect waste in
                    residential areas prior to 7:00 a.m. or continue after 7:00 p.m.
                    without prior consent of the City’s Public Works Director.

     d. City Not Liable for Delay.
        The City is not liable or responsible to Contractor, or to any other person,
        for or on account of any stoppage or delaying the work described herein
        by injunction or other legal or equitable proceedings, or any delay for any
        cause over which the City has not control. Contractor will indemnify,
        defend, and hold harmless the City from any claims (including attorney’s
        fees), suits, actions, or causes of action resulting from or arising out of
        delays or interruption of service which are not caused by the actions of the
        City or which the City has no control.

     e. Tipping Fees. Contractor shall be responsible for all tipping fees and any
        other fees associated with delivering waste and recycled materials.

     f. Damage to Property. Contractor must monitor and report any damage to
        private or public property caused by Contractor to the City’s Public Works
        Director or the representative designated by the City. Contractor is
        responsible for fixing or providing compensation for such damages.

D. Customer Service.

     a. The services required under this Agreement must be provided in a
        friendly, reasonable, and responsive manner sufficient to develop and
        sustain adequate public acceptance and support of Contractor's services.
        As a condition of accepting this Agreement, Contractor assures that
        service will be performed in this manner and agrees to adhere to the
        following:


                                                                                       16
         b. Office. Contractor will maintain a local telephone number or other office
            facilities by which representatives of Contractor can be contacted. The
            office must be equipped with sufficient telephones and lines and have a
            responsible person in charge during all hours when garbage or recycling
            pickup service occurs. The office must be within a reasonable distance
            from the City. Contractor must maintain the capability to promptly and
            directly receive and respond to service complaints by telephone during all
            hours during pickup service. Contractor is required to have calls answered
            by a person and not a recorded message during any pickup service times.
            During non-pickup times, calls may be answered by a recording with a
            sufficient-sized mailbox for taking messages.

            Contractor must furnish the City with after-hours telephones numbers for
            emergency response.

         c. Response and Resolution. Contractor must resolve all complaints
            regarding services in a prompt and courteous manner. Whenever
            Contractor receives notification of locations that have not received
            scheduled service, and such scheduled pickup is missed for any reason
            other than failure of the customer to place containers curbside by 7:00
            a.m., or other excused delay as set forth herein, Contractor must correct
            the error on:

              i.    The same day as the first notice of missed pickup, if the notice is
                    received before 10:00 a.m.; or
              ii.   Before 10:00 a.m. of the following day if the notice is received after
                    10:00 a.m.
             iii.   The contractor must comply with all applicable City Codes,
                    ordinances, and requirements relevant to the services provided and
                    strictly adhere to all relevant environmental, health, and safety laws
                    and regulations at the local, state, and federal levels. Rate
                    adjustments for the contracted services will be made annually
                    based on the U.S. Department of Labor Consumer Price Index,
                    West Region.

I.2   CONTRACTOR DUTIES/RESPONSIBILITIES

      A. Provide all necessary supervision, materials, equipment, labor, and other
         resources required to complete the specified waste management services
         safely, efficiently, and in a timely manner.
         a. Safely and legally transport and dispose of all collected solid waste at a
            permitted and approved disposal facility.
         b. Ensure proper handling, transportation, and delivery of collected recyclable
            materials to a licensed and approved materials recovery facility for
            processing and marketing.

                                                                                        17
        c. Possess and maintain the necessary operational, technical, and financial
           resources to fulfill all contractual obligations for the duration of the
           agreement.
        d. Comply with all applicable local, state, and federal laws, regulations, and
           industry best practices related to waste management, recycling, and
           environmental protection.
        e. Comply with the requirements of Utah’s Government Data Privacy Act, Utah
           Code Ann. §§ 63A-19-101 to 601, as amended, with regard to the personal
           data processed or accessed by the contractor’s performance.
        f. Maintain open communication with the City and respond promptly to any
           inquiries, concerns, or requests for information.
        g. Damage clause


1.3   DRAPER CITY RESPONSIBILITIES

        A. Provide all of the billing and collections to the residents.

        B. Maintain and provide accurate contract information regarding number of
           cans each customer has contracted for.




                                                                                    18
                         ATTACHMENT D: COST SHEET




            Curbside Services                           Price
            Base Services – 1 Mixed Waste and 1        $37.00
            Recycle Container Per Month

            Additional Mixed Waste Container Per       $11.00
            Month
            Additional Recycle Container Per           $11.00
            Month



                           COST OF LIVING INCREASE


•   The Cost-of-Living Adjustment (COLA) will occur annually each
    November, based on the annual average of the Consumer Price Index
    (CPI) for the West Region, as published by the U.S. Bureau of Labor
    Statistics, not to exceed seven percent (7%) per year.

•   Prices quoted are guaranteed one year after the contract start date. After
    year one of the contract an annual Cost of Living Adjustment applies,
    utilizing the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics, West Region, or another
    mutually agreed upon index (https://www.bls.gov/regions/west/news-
    release/consumerpriceindex_west.htm).

                               ADDITIONAL FEES

•   There will be NO other additional fees for this contract. The price per cart
    includes the tonnage fees and processing costs for recyclables.
•   There will be NO fuel surcharge for this contract.
•   There will be NO overload fees.
•   There will be NO contamination fees.




                                                                                   19
