                                  Development Review Committee
                                      1020 East Pioneer Road
                                        Draper, UT 84020
                                                 July 17, 2025

To:              Draper City Planning Commission
                 Business Date: July 31, 2025

From:            Development Review Committee

Prepared By: Nick Whittaker, MCMP, Planner II
             Planning Division
             Community Development Department
             801-576-6522, Nick.Whittaker@draperutah.gov

Re:     Follis Transport, LLC. – Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit Request
        Application No.: 2024-0349-USE
        Applicant:          George Follis, representing Follis Transport, LLC.
        Project Location: 11747 S. 300 E.
        Current Zoning: RA1 (Residential Agricultural) Zone
        Acreage:            0.74 Acres (Approximately 32,234 ft2)
        Request:            Request for approval of a Home Occupation Conditional Use
                            Permit in the RA1 zone regarding the operation of a home office
                            that provides trucking services.



BACKGROUND AND SUMMARY

This application is a request for approval of a Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit for
approximately 0.74 acres located on the east side of 300 E. at approximately 11747 S. 300 E.
(Exhibits B & C). The property is currently zoned RA1. The applicant is requesting that a Home
Occupation Conditional Use Permit be approved to allow the operation of a home office that
provides trucking services.

The subject property was built in 1999. The proposed home occupation will operate from
an office located in the basement of the residential dwelling.



ANALYSIS




Follis Transport, LLC.                                                App. # 2024-0349-USE
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit Request
General Plan and Zoning.

 Table 1                   General Plan and Zoning Designations                        Exhibit
 Existing Land Use         Residential Medium Density                                  Exhibit D
 Current Zoning            RA1                                                         Exhibit E
 Adjacent Zoning
    East                   RA2 (Residential Agricultural) & R3 (Single Family
                           Residential)
     West                  R3
     North                 RA1
     South                 A5 (Agricultural)

The Residential Medium Density land use designation is characterized as follows:




According to Draper City Municipal Code (DCMC) Section 9-8-020 the purpose of the RA1
zone is to “foster low density development with little impact on its surroundings and
municipal services; to generally preserve the character of the City’s semi-rural areas; and to


Follis Transport, LLC.                                                     App. # 2024-0349-USE
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit Request
promote and preserve conditions favorable to large-lot family life, including the keeping of
limited numbers of animals and fowl. The predominant use in these zones is intended to
be detached single-family dwellings, protected from encroachment by commercial and
industrial uses.”

Home Occupation. The DCMC Section 9-34-040 outlines development standards applicable
to all home occupations. Those criteria, along with information specific to the subject
request, are as follows:

        A. Ownership: The home occupation shall be owned and operated by a person who
             resides in the dwelling where the home occupation is located. Such person shall
             be the primary provider of the labor, work, or service provided in the home
             occupation.

                 •    The applicant owns the business and resides at the dwelling (Exhibit H).

        B. Business License: A business license for the home occupation shall be obtained
             from and continually maintained with the city pursuant to title 6, chapter 11 of
             this code.

                 •    The applicant has submitted a business license application to the city
                      (Exhibit H).
                 •    The applicant is required to obtain a home occupation conditional use
                      permit prior to being issued the business license.

        C. Employees: Members of the family of the owner who reside in the dwelling may
             be employed in the home occupation. Nonfamily or nonresident employees
             shall be limited to one person.

                 •    The applicant has indicated that they are the only employee of the
                      business (Exhibit H).

        D. Inspection: All facilities shall comply with fire, building, plumbing, electrical and
             all other city, county, state and federal codes. Inspections during reasonable
             hours by city officials may occur as necessary to assure compliance with
             regulations.

                 •    The applicant indicates that he agrees to comply with these standards
                      (Exhibit H).

        E. Inventory: No stock in trade, inventory, or other merchandise to exceed two
             hundred fifty (250) square feet shall be kept on the premises. No outside storage
             is allowed.


Follis Transport, LLC.                                                    App. # 2024-0349-USE
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit Request
                 •    The applicant makes conflicting statements as to the use of outside
                      storage, but generally indicates that four (4) work trailers and one (1)
                      work truck are parked on the premises and are located in a fenced off
                      area located in the front yard area that is approximately 5,000 ft2 (Exhibits
                      F & H).
                 •    The applicant will not be storing inventory outside, however a deviation
                      to this criterion is needed to allow for the use of 5,000 ft2 of front yard
                      area for parking and storing the trailers and vehicle. (Exhibits F & G).

        F. Modification Of Structures Or Yards: There shall be no visible evidence from the
             exterior of a dwelling that it is being used for any other purpose than that of a
             dwelling. No activities shall be carried on outside the dwelling in the yard for the
             benefit of or incidental to the home occupation. No front yard area shall be
             altered to provide parking required for a home occupation.

                 •    The applicant indicates that the area in the front yard located to the
                      south of the driveway is currently used to store four (4) work trailers and
                      one (1) work truck when not in use, and is seeking a deviation from the
                      standards in this criterion. (Exhibits F & H).
                 •    The applicant indicates that the front yard area has been altered by the
                      addition of gravel to accommodate the storage of vehicles and trailers
                      and a fence to provide screening (Exhibits F & H).

        G. Nuisance: Tools, items, equipment, or activities conducted within the dwelling
             which is offensive or noxious by reason of the emission of odor, smoke, gas,
             vibration, magnetic interference, or noise shall be prohibited.

                 •    According to the applicant the operation of the home occupation does
                      not use tools, items, equipment or engage in activities that would create
                      any of these listed nuisances (Exhibit H).
                 •    Staff notes that potential negative impacts are vehicle emissions, stirring
                      up dust from the graveled surface, and generating noise when parking
                      and when hitching and unhitching trailers.

        H. Secondary Use: The home occupation shall be clearly incidental and secondary
             to the primary use of the dwelling for residential purposes. The home
             occupation shall not disrupt the normal residential character of the
             neighborhood in which the residence is located. Not more than twenty five
             percent (25%) of the dwelling unit shall be used for the home occupation.

                 •    The applicant indicates that the home occupation operates from an office
                      located in the basement of the residence which measures approximately


Follis Transport, LLC.                                                     App. # 2024-0349-USE
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit Request
                      220 ft2. (Exhibits G & H).
                 •    The home office utilizes approximately 6% of the overall square footage
                      of the dwelling.
                 •    Staff notes that the outdoor areas used for the home occupation, as
                      described by the applicant, is greater than the square footage of the
                      entire dwelling unit (Exhibits F & H).

        I.   Signs: All signage in a residential area must comply with chapter 26, "Signs", of
             this title.

                 •    The applicant indicates that the home occupation will not have any
                      signage on the property or on vehicles (Exhibit H).
                 •    Staff is not certain that the vehicle or trailers related to the home
                      occupation being stored at the property do not currently have signage.

        J.   Traffic, Parking, And Access: No home occupation use shall generate pedestrian,
             parking, or vehicular traffic in excess of that customarily associated with the
             zone in which the use is located. All parking shall be provided and maintained on
             site with adequate provision for drop off traffic.

                 •    The applicant indicates that no additional parking is needed as no
                      customers come to the home (Exhibit H).
                 •    Staff notes that the applicant has requested a deviation from the
                      standards in this criterion to allow four (4) work trailers and one (1) work
                      truck to be parked on the premises.
                 •    The applicant indicates that the work vehicle and trailers are parked in a
                      graveled area located in the front yard (Exhibits F & H).
                 •    Staff notes that the parking location described by the applicant and
                      illustrated in the site plan has not been approved by Draper City and does
                      not comply with parking location requirements found in the DCMC
                      subsection 9-25-050.
                 •    The applicant indicates in the site plan that the graveled vehicle storage
                      area is accessible to vehicles on the north and south side of the proposed
                      vehicle storage area (Exhibits F & G). Staff notes the proposed access on
                      the south side is not an allowed driveway per DCMC 9-10-075, and use by
                      the applicant is not authorized.

        K. Vehicles: Other than the business owner's personal transportation, there shall
             be no vehicles or equipment on the property associated with the home
             occupation which would not normally be found at a residence. No signage for
             the home occupation shall be allowed on vehicles.

                 •    The applicant indicates that four (4) work trailers and one (1) work truck


Follis Transport, LLC.                                                    App. # 2024-0349-USE
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit Request
                      are stored on the premises (Exhibits F & H).
                 •    Staff notes that the applicant is requesting a deviation to the standards
                      listed in this criterion.

        L. Yards: Yards surrounding the dwelling and accessory buildings shall not be used
             for any activities or storage of any materials associated with the home
             occupation.

                 •    The applicant indicates that an area located in the south front yard will be
                      utilized to park four (4) work trailers and one (1) work truck (Exhibits F &
                      H).
                 •    Staff notes that the applicant has requested a deviation to the standards
                      listed in this criterion to park four (4) work trailers and one (1) work truck
                      in the front yard area.

        M. Customers: No customers allowed. Children accessing a limited daycare or
           limited preschool facility shall not be considered customers.

                 •    No customers come to the home (Exhibit H).

        N. Utility Demand: The home occupation shall not cause a demand for public
             utilities in excess of that necessarily and customarily provided for residential
             uses.

                 •    The applicant indicates that there will be no use of utilities in excess of
                      that which is customary for residential use (Exhibit H).

        O. Main Structure: The home occupations shall be conducted, located, and
           contained within the primary structure on the property.

                 •    The applicant indicates that the home occupation will be conducted
                      within a 220 ft2 room located in the dwelling (Exhibits G & H).
                 •    A deviation to this criterion is needed to allow for a 5,000 ft2 area on the
                      property to be used for vehicle and trailer parking, that is not located
                      within the primary structure (Exhibits F & H).

        P. Single-Family And Multiple-Family Dwellings: Home occupations listed as
             permitted or conditional within this title may be permitted in a single-family or a
             multiple-family dwelling, subject to the standards found within this section and
             section 9-34-060 of this chapter. Businesses within multiple-family dwellings
             shall provide an approval letter from the respective homeowners' association, or
             management company in the case of apartments, if the business proposes any
             employees, customers or business vehicles.


Follis Transport, LLC.                                                      App. # 2024-0349-USE
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit Request
                 •    The property contains a single-family dwelling and an approval letter
                      from a HOA or management company is not required (Exhibit H).

        Q. Licensure: Any home occupation involving childcare shall comply with all
             applicable state and local laws and regulations regarding residential childcare,
             including, but not limited to, provisions of the Utah child care licensing act, as set
             forth in Utah Code Annotated section 26-39-101 et seq., as amended, and the
             residential certificate childcare standards as set forth in the Utah administrative
             code section R430-50-1 et seq., as amended. In addition, cottage food
             production operations are regulated and inspected by the Utah department of
             agriculture. Any food related home occupation under their jurisdiction must
             comply with these regulations.

                 •    The home occupation does not involve child care or cottage food
                      production (Exhibit H).



Criteria For Approval.
The criteria for review and potential approval of a conditional use permit request is found
in Section 9-5-080(E) of the DCMC. This section depicts the standard of review for such
requests as:

        E. Approval Standards: The standards of this subsection shall apply to the issuance
            of a conditional use permit:
         1. A conditional use permit may be issued for a use to be located within a zone
            where the particular conditional use is allowed by the use regulations of the
            zone.
         2. Reasonable conditions may be imposed as necessary to substantially mitigate
            reasonably anticipated detrimental effects of the proposed use. These
            conditions may include conditions concerning use, construction, character,
            location, landscaping, screening, parking, hours of operation, and other matters
            relating to the purposes and objectives of this section. Such conditions shall be
            expressly set forth in the motion authorizing the conditional use permit.
         3. If the reasonably anticipated detrimental effects of a proposed conditional use
            cannot be substantially mitigated by the imposition of reasonable conditions to
            achieve compliance with applicable standards, the conditional use may be
            denied.
         4. The following factors shall be reviewed and considered in determining whether a
            conditional use permit application should be approved, approved with
            conditions, or denied because reasonable conditions cannot be imposed to
            achieve compliance with applicable standards:



Follis Transport, LLC.                                                    App. # 2024-0349-USE
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit Request
              a. The harmony and compliance of the proposed use with the objectives and
                 requirements of the city's general plan and this title;
              b. The suitability of the specific property for the proposed use;
              c. Whether the proposed use or facility may be injurious to potential or existing
                 development in the vicinity;
              d. The economic impact of the proposed facility or use on the surrounding
                 area;
              e. The aesthetic impact of the proposed facility or use on the surrounding area;
              f. The safeguards proposed or provided to ensure adequate utilities,
                 transportation access, drainage, parking, loading space, lighting, screening,
                 landscaping, open space, fire protection, and pedestrian and vehicular
                 circulation;
              g. The safeguards provided or proposed to prevent noxious or offensive
                 emissions such as noise, glare, dust, pollutants and odor from the proposed
                 facility or use; and
              h. The impact of the proposed facility or use on the health, safety, and welfare
                 of the city, the area, and persons owning or leasing property in the area.
          5. The planning commission may request additional information as may be
             reasonably needed to determine whether the requirements of this subsection E
             can be met.

Staff has reviewed the application materials and responses from the applicant. The
proposed Home Occupation is a Home Office located in a 220 ft2 office room located in the
basement of the dwelling. The applicant indicates that the home office will be used to
manage and complete administrative tasks for the applicant’s trucking services. The hours
of operation are 8:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m. from Monday to Saturday.

As part of the home occupation, the applicant is seeking a deviation to criterion E, F, J, K, L
& O found in DCMC 9-27-080. In addition to needing deviations, the applicant will also need
to obtain a conditional use permit regarding the existing front yard fence. The Applicant
claims that the negative impact of the proposed front yard storage area is mitigated by
providing screening with an existing 6-foot fence (Exhibits F & H). Staff agrees that the
fence does provide screening to the proposed front yard parking area, however, a fence of
that height is not permitted in the front yard area per the DCMC 9-27-080(A)(1). Staff notes
that the negative impacts of the proposed front yard parking area cannot be considered
mitigated by screening when the screening is illegal. For this reason, Staff recommends
that as a condition of approval, a conditional use permit allowing front yard fencing should
be obtained by the applicant prior to using the proposed front yard parking area as part of
the home-business.

The applicant also claims that the proposed front yard parking area would not negatively
impact or be detrimental to the health, safety, and general welfare of persons residing or
working in the vicinity, or be injurious to property or improvements in the vicinity


Follis Transport, LLC.                                                  App. # 2024-0349-USE
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit Request
associated because the front yard area has gravel ground covering. Staff notes that parking
utility trailers on rock in residential zones is allowed per DCMC 9-25-080(J)(3). However, the
applicant’s use of gravel does not comply with DCMC 9-25-080(J)(1), which requires
permanent parking for motorized vehicles, to be provided on a paved surface of concrete
or asphalt. In addition, staff does not concur with the applicant’s statements that there will
be no detrimental impact to the health, safety, or general welfare of persons residing or
working in the vicinity, or be injurious to property or improvements in the vicinity. Staff
notes that operating trucks and pulling trailers on graveled surfaces can cause gravel, dust
and other particulate matter to disperse to the sidewalks, streets and neighboring
properties. This can be detrimental to the health, safety, and general welfare of persons
residing or working in the vicinity by negatively affecting air quality and creating hazardous
surfaces on nearby roads and sidewalks. For these reasons, Staff is recommending that as
a condition of approval, the applicant shall come into compliance with the requirements of
DCMC 9-25-080(J)(1) by installing pavement in the proposed front yard parking area
(Exhibits F & H).

Staff has concerns about the applicant’s intent to utilize the front yard area as part of the
proposed home occupation. The applicant has not adequately identified the potential
negative impacts of the proposed home occupation. Staff does not concur with the
applicant’s statements that there will be no detrimental impact to the health, safety, or
general welfare of persons residing or working in the vicinity, or be injurious to property or
improvements in the vicinity. The applicant has not provided sufficient documentation or
evidence to show that the potential negative impacts created by the proposed home
occupation described in this report can be mitigated. Staff believes that the potential
negative impacts of the applicants request to operate a home office can be mitigated
through the imposition of reasonable conditions. Staff has provided recommended
conditions of approval which are listed in the Staff recommendations section of this report.



REVIEWS

Planning Division Review. The Draper City Planning Division has completed their review of
the Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit submission. Comments from this division, if
any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Engineering and Public Works Divisions Review. The Draper City Engineering and Public
Works Divisions have completed their reviews of the Home Occupation Conditional Use
Permit submission. Comments from these divisions, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Building Division Review. The Draper City Building Division has completed their review of
the Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit submission. Comments from this division, if
any, can be found in Exhibit A.




Follis Transport, LLC.                                                App. # 2024-0349-USE
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit Request
Fire Division Review. The Draper City Fire Marshal has completed his review of the Home
Occupation Conditional Use Permit submission. Comments from this division, if any, can
be found in Exhibit A.

Noticing. Notice has been properly issued in the manner outlined in the City and State
Codes.



STAFF RECOMMENDATION

Staff recommends that the Planning Commission review the request based on the findings
and the criteria for approval, or denial as listed within the staff report. The Planning
Commission should also review the request, hear from the applicant, and receive public
comment prior to making a decision.

If the Planning Commission decides to approve the request, staff recommends they include
the following conditions of approval:

    1. That all requirements of the Draper City Engineering, Public Works, Building,
        Planning, and Fire Divisions are satisfied.
    2. That a Draper City business license shall be obtained and maintained by the
        business owner for as long as the business remains in operation.
    3. That no more than four (4) work trailers and one (1) work truck being utilized for the
        home-based business shall be parked at the property.
    4. That the four (4) work trailers and one (1) work truck shall not be parked in the
        street.
    5. That only one (1) work truck shall be parked in a designated stall per an approved
        site plan.
    6. That the drive approach facing Kimballs Ln. shall not be used for vehicular access by
        the property owner.
    7. That the applicant shall obtain a Conditional Use Permit to bring the illegal fencing
        located in the front yard into compliance.
    8. That no business deliveries shall be received at the property.
    9. That no business deliveries shall be shipped from the property.
    10. That no business deliveries shall be stored at the property.
    11. That the parking area shall be paved with cement or asphalt.
    12. That the size of the parking area shall not exceed 5000 ft2.
    13. That the days of the week in which the home-business may operate shall be limited
        to Monday through Saturday.
    14. That the hour of operation shall be limited to 8 a.m. through 6 p.m.
    15. That no customers shall come to the home.




Follis Transport, LLC.                                                App. # 2024-0349-USE
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit Request
MODEL MOTIONS AND FINDINGS

Sample Motion for Approval – I move that we approve the Home Occupation Conditional
Use Permit, as requested by George Follis, representing Follis Transport, LLC. Application
2024-0349-USE, based on the following findings for approval and subject to the conditions
listed in the Staff Report dated July 17, 2025.

Findings for approval:

        1. The proposal complies with the standards for approval found in DCMC Section 9-
           5-080(E) and potential negative impacts are mitigated through the imposition of
           reasonable conditions.

I move that we approve the Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit, as requested by
George Follis, representing Follis Transport, LLC. Application 2024-0349-USE, based on the
findings for approval and subject to the conditions listed in the Staff Report dated July 17,
2025 and as modified by the following additional findings or conditions:

        1. (List any additional findings…)
        2. (List any additional conditions…)

Sample Motion for Denial – I move that we deny the Home Occupation Conditional Use
Permit, as requested by George Follis, representing Follis Transport, LLC. Application 2024-
0349-USE, based on the following findings for denial listed in the Staff Report dated July 17,
2025.

Findings for denial:

        1. The proposal does not comply with all standards for approval found in DCMC
           Section 9-5-080(E) and potential negative impacts are not able to be sufficiently
           mitigated through the imposition of reasonable conditions.




Follis Transport, LLC.                                                 App. # 2024-0349-USE
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit Request
                    DEVELOPMENT REVIEW COMMITTEE ACKNOWLEDGEMENT
                    DEVELOPMENT REVIEW COMMITTEE ACKNOWLEDGEMENT

  We,the
We,    theundersigned,
           undersigned,as
                        asduly
                           dulyappointed   members of
                                appointed members       the Draper
                                                     of the Draper City
                                                                    City Development
                                                                         DevelopmentReview
                                                                                         Review
  Committee,   do acknowledge  that the application which
Committee, do acknowledge that the application which provides the subject for thisstaff
                                                           provides the subject for this   staff
  report has been reviewed by the Committee and has been
report has been reviewed by the Committee and has been found  foundtotobe
                                                                        beappropriate
                                                                           appropriatefor for
  review by the Draper City Planning Commission and/or City Council.
review by the Draper City Planning Commission and/or City Council.
                                                                                            Digitally signed by Todd A.
                                                                                            Draper
                        Digitally signed by Brien Maxfield                                  DN: C=US,
                        DN: C=US,                                                           E=todd.draper@draper.ut.us,
                        E=brien.maxfield@draperutah.gov,                   Todd A. Draper   O=Draper City Planning,
   Brien Maxfield       O=Draper, OU=Public Works -
                        Engineering, CN=Brien Maxfield
                                                                                            CN=Todd A. Draper
                                                                                            Date: 2025.07.28
                        Date: 2025.07.28 08:44:58-06'00'                                    10:18:37-06'00'


  Draper City Public Works Department                                Draper City Planning Division
__________________________________                                   __________________________________
Draper City Public Works Department
                           Digitally signed by Don Buckley
                           DN: C=US, E=don.buckley@draperutah.gov,   Draper City Planning Division
 Don Buckley               O=Draper City Fire Department, OU=Fire
                           Marshal, CN=Don Buckley
                           Date: 2025.07.28 09:34:48-06'00'


  Draper City Fire Department                                        Draper City4Tegal CTounsel

__________________________________
                          Digitally signed by Matthew Symes
                          DN: C=US, E=matt.symes@draperutah.gov,
                                                                     __________________________________
  Matthew Symes
Draper City Fire Department                                          Draper City Legal Counsel
                          O=Draper City Corp., CN=Matthew Symes
                          Date: 2025.07.28 07:26:53-06'00'



 Draper City Building Division


__________________________________
Draper City Building Division




Follis Transport, LLC.                                                                      App. # 2024-0349-USE
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit Request
                                     EXHIBIT A
                                DEPARTMENT REVIEWS

REVIEWS ARE NOT MEANT TO BE AN ALL INCLUSIVE LIST OF POSSIBLE COMMENTS OR
CONDITIONS.



Planning Division Review.

       1. No additional comments.

Engineering and Public Works Divisions Review.

       1. No additional comments.



Building Division Review.

       1. No additional comments.

Fire Division Review.

       1. No additional comments.
  EXHIBIT B
VICINITY MAP
EXHIBIT C
ARIEL MAP
  EXHIBIT D
LAND USE MAP
 EXHIBIT E
ZONING MAP
EXHIBIT F
SITE PLAN
GEORGE FOLLIS
FOLLIS TRANSPORT LLC
11747 S 300 E
11/01/2024

                       PROPOSED BUSINESS VEHICLE PARKING AREA
                       PROPERTY LINE
                       FENCED AREA




                                                                                   NORTH




                                                                                       308’



                                                                                            PERSONAL
                                                                                            STORAGE




                                                                                                       11’
                                                 Access

                                                                                     200’
                                         lity
                                 uti
                                        lity
                                 uti




                         468’
                                                    40’ goosenech trailer
                                                       50’ total length
                                14’ dump
                                  trailer
                                  work vehicle




                                                                            346’




                                                  Fence
                                                  Access




                                                  Access

                                                 33’
 EXHIBIT G
FLOOR PLAN
          HOME OFFICE
UTILITY
ROOM
          220 SQ. FEET
      EXHIBIT H
APPLICANT STATEMENTS
                                     Home Occupation Questionnaire



Feel Free to email paul.geilman@draperutah.gov if you have any questions on submitting this application



** One the application there are sections asking for Statement of Compliance with Standards, Overview of Proposed
Use, and Analysis of Deviations Requested. You can answer these questions/ address these bullet points and upload this
completed document to all of those sections.**



**If they ask if you required a Variance State that you do not require a variance. Only 1% of applications actually require
or qualify for one**




Overview of Proposed Use

    •   I own a hot shot trucking company, the hours of operation is from 8am to 6 pm, Monday through Saturday. I am
        the only employee at this time. The area has already been improved because 20 plus years ago the code
        enforcement office told me due to the odd shape of my lot that if I fenced the area in on the South end of the
        lot that it would be acceptable for storage of personal trailers and RV’s. In the last couple of years I have
        improved the area with gravel all the way to 11800 South so there would not be weeds in that area and looks
        clean. With this company I have trailers that I use and need a place to store them when not in use. I have never
        had an issue until recently when recent code enforcement officer sited me for having trailers and or RV’s in the
        fenced area. Since then I filed for a business permit and conditional use permit so that I can use the otherwise
        unusable area, because it is such an odd shaped lot. There will be no detrimental effects to the adjacent
        properties and the neighborhood such as traffic or noise.
    •   There will be a total of 4 trailers and one work truck.
    •   40’ flatbed gooseneck trailer, a 16’ dump trailer, one work truck and 2 small utility trailers.
    •   The trailers and vehicles are owned by the business.




Compliance With Standards

    •   Describe how the proposed use is in compliance and harmony with the objectives and requirements of the city’s
        general plan.
        The proposed use is to be able to use an otherwise unusable area of my lot and it is improved and fenced.

    •   Explain the suitability of the specific property for the proposed use:
        The area is fenced and has gravel so it is kept looking good.

    •   Whether or not the proposed use may be injurious to potential or existing development in the vicinity?
       The area will not be injurious to potential or existing development in the vicinity. The area does not effect any
       neighboring properties in a negative way because it is fenced and has gravel so there is not excess weeds or
       mud.

   •   Describe the economic impact of the proposed facility or use on the surrounding area:
       There is no economic impact of the proposed facility or use on the surrounding area.

   •   Describe the aesthetic impact of the proposed facility or use on the surrounding area:
       There is no aesthetic impact of the proposed use on the surrounding area since all vehicles and trailers will be
       parked behind the existing fenced area that was built in 2004 for use of this area. There are a total of 4 trailers
       and 1 work truck that are related to the business.

   •   What Safeguards are proposed or provided to ensure adequate utilities, transportation access, drainage,
       parking, loading space, lighting, screening, landscape, open space, fire protection, and pedestrian and vehicular
       circulation?
       There are no safeguards needed for proposed use since the area is already fenced in. The access to the fenced
       area is either on the north or the south side of the proposed area (Please see property plot map showing the
       fenced area). There is a driveway on both the south and north side of the proposed area for accessing the area
       and to ensure the area is safe to enter and exit to ensure pedestrian safety (See site plan).

   •   What safeguards will be provided or proposed to prevent noxious or offensive emission such as noise, glare,
       dust, pollutants and odor from the proposed facility or use?
       I have already graveled the area so there will not be weed, mud, or dust.

   •   Describe the impact of the proposed facility or use on the health, safety, and welfare of the city, the area, and
       persons owning or leasing property in the area.
       There is no impact in the area due to the fence has been installed since 2004 and I have improved the area with
       gravel to reduce weeds and to provide a clean area without weeds or mud. The area has access to a driveway on
       the north side and the south side of the proposed area to ensure pedestrian safety while entering or exiting the
       proposed area (See site plan).



Analysis of Home Occupation Standards Deviation

Please provide explanation how you meet the following standards or how your proposed business requires a deviation
from one or more of these standards. If it doesn’t apply mark N.A.

   •    Ownership: The home occupation shall be owned and operated by a person who resides in the dwelling where
       the home occupation is located. Such person shall be the primary provider of the labor, work, or service
       provided in the home occupation.
       I will be the only employee in the home occupation and I reside in the home.

   •   Business License: A business license for the home occupation shall be obtained from and continually maintained
       with the city pursuant to title 6, chapter 11 of this code.
       I have filed for a business license and it is required to first have approval of the conditional use permit. Once
       issued, I will continually maintain the license.

   •   Employees: Members of the family of the owner who reside in the dwelling may be employed in the home
       occupation. Nonfamily or nonresident employees shall be limited to one person.
       I am the only employee.
•   Inspection: All facilities shall comply with fire, building, plumbing, electrical and all other city, county, state and
    federal codes. Inspections during reasonable hours by city officials may occur as necessary to assure compliance
    with regulations.
    I will comply with this standard.

•    Inventory: No stock in trade, inventory, or other merchandise to exceed two hundred fifty (250) square feet
    shall be kept on the premises. No outside storage is allowed. (Ord. 909, 7-21-2009)
    There will be very little storage needed for this business and I will comply with this standard. 4 trailers and one
    work truck will be stored behind the existing fenced area that borders along 300 E. The storage is minimal and
    will be stored within the storage area of the trailers or within the truck. The storage area is improved with fill
    dirt to level it out, graveled the entire strip even outside of the fenced area to limit dust, mud or weeds. The
    storage area needed for trailers and vehicle is a total of 800 sq. feet, the total square feet behind the fenced
    area, which is approximately 5,000 sq. feet.

•   Modification Of Structures Or Yards: There shall be no visible evidence from the exterior of a dwelling that it is
    being used for any other purpose than that of a dwelling. No activities shall be carried on outside the dwelling in
    the yard for the benefit of or incidental to the home occupation. No front yard area shall be altered to provide
    parking required for a home occupation. (Ord. 1132, 2-17-2015)
    This area that is fenced is side yard and is otherwise unusable and it is a very odd shaped lot. The proposed area
    is 346 feet x 33 feet. It is North of the driveway and the front yard is South of the driveway. It is a side yard and
    like I mentioned above that it would be unable to be used for anything because of the very odd shape of this lot.

•   Nuisance: Tools, items, equipment, or activities conducted within the dwelling, which is offensive or noxious by
    reason of the emission of odor, smoke, gas, vibration, magnetic interference, or noise shall be prohibited.
    There will be no need for any of this type of tools, items, equipment or activities, as it will be used for storage.

•   Secondary Use: The home occupation shall be clearly incidental and secondary to the primary use of the
    dwelling for residential purposes. The home occupation shall not disrupt the normal residential character of the
    neighborhood in which the residence is located. Not more than twenty five percent (25%) of the dwelling unit
    shall be used for the home occupation.
    - The home occupation is in 1 bedroom in the basement. It will be used for bookkeeping and admin work for the
    business.

•   Signs: All signage in a residential area must comply with chapter 26, "Signs", of this title.
    There is no signage needed for this use.

•   Traffic, Parking, And Access: No home occupation use shall generate pedestrian, parking, or vehicular traffic in
    excess of that customarily associated with the zone in which the use is located. All parking shall be provided and
    maintained on site with adequate provision for drop off traffic.
    No additional parking is needed and will not have excess vehicular traffic. All vehicles will be stored behind the
    before marked and fenced area that has been improved with gravel and are for the use of vehicles related the
    business. The area has access to a driveway on the north side and the south side of the proposed area to ensure
    pedestrian safety while entering or exiting the proposed area (See site plan).

    Vehicles: Other than the business owner's personal transportation, there shall be 4 trailers and one truck stored
    in the proposed and fenced area, the vehicles or equipment on the property that are associated with the home
    occupation, which would not normally be found at a residence. No signage for the home occupation shall be
    allowed on vehicles.
    There will not be any extra vehicles or parking besides what has previously been mentioned that relate to the
    home occupation business and there is no signage on vehicles or property for the home occupational business.
•   Yards: Yards surrounding the dwelling and accessory buildings shall not be used for any activities or storage of
    any materials associated with the home occupation.
    I agree to this standard and all dwellings are used for personal use. The marked storage area on the property
    plot behind the fence will be used for storage of 4 trailers and one work vehicle.

•   Customers: No customers allowed. Children accessing a limited daycare or limited preschool facility shall not be
    considered customers.
    There are no customers that will be visiting the premises.

•   Utility Demand: The home occupation shall not cause a demand for public utilities in excess of that necessarily
    and customarily provided for residential uses.
    There will not be any more demand on utilities than that is necessarily and customarily provided for residential
    use.

•   Main Structure: The home occupations shall be conducted, located, and contained within the primary structure
    on the property. (Ord. 909, 7-21-2009)
    I agree to this standard and the bedroom that is being used is 220 Sq feet and will be used for bookkeeping and
    admin work related to the home occupational business.

•   Single-Family And Multiple-Family Dwellings: Home occupations listed as permitted or conditional within this
    title may be permitted in a single-family or a multiple-family dwelling, subject to the standards found within this
    section and section 9-34-060 of this chapter. Businesses within multiple-family dwellings shall provide an
    approval letter from the respective homeowners' association, or management company in the case of
    apartments, if the business proposes any employees, customers or business vehicles. (Ord. 1132, 2-17-2015)
    This property does not have an HOA or management company.

•   Licensure: Any home occupation involving childcare shall comply with all applicable state and local laws and
    regulations regarding residential childcare, including, but not limited to, provisions of the Utah child care
    licensing act, as set forth in Utah Code Annotated section 26-39-101 et seq., as amended, and the residential
    certificate childcare standards as set forth in the Utah administrative code section R430-50-1 et seq., as
    amended. In addition, cottage food production operations are regulated and inspected by the Utah department
    of agriculture. Any food related home occupation under their jurisdiction must comply with these regulations.
    (Ord. 909, 7-21-2009)
    There will be no child care business for this property.
