                                 RESOLUTION NO. 25-06

       A RESOLUTION OF THE DRAPER CITY COUNCIL ADOPTING
       SECTION 10400 OF THE PERSONNEL POLICIES AND
       PROCEDURES MANUAL REGARDING POLICY VEHICLE USAGE
       AND INCIDENT REPORTING

       WHEREAS, The City Council reviews and adopts policies and procedures to assist
in the efficient utilization of City resources and the fair and uniform application of
requirements and benefits to City employees; and

       WHEREAS, The City Council has reviewed Policy 10400 of the Personnel Policies
and Procedures Manual and has determined a need to adopt the Vehicle Usage and Incident
Reporting Policy; and

      WHEREAS, The City Council believes this adoption is in the best interest of the
employees of Draper City.

     NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF
DRAPER CITY, STATE OF UTAH, AS FOLLOWS:

        Section 1.     Adopted. The Draper City Council does hereby adopts Policy 10400
of the Personnel Policies and Procedures Manual as attached hereto as Exhibit “A.”

        Section 2.     Severability. If any section, part or provision of this Resolution is held
invalid or unenforceable, such invalidity or unenforceability shall not affect any other portion
of this Resolution, and all sections, parts and provisions of this Resolution shall be severable.

       Section 3.      Effective Date. This Resolution shall become effective immediately
upon its passage.

     PASSED AND ADOPTED BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF DRAPER CITY,
STATE OF UTAH, THIS THE 04 DAY OF FEBRUARY, 2025.
                                       DRAPER CITY


                                       _____________________________
                                       Mayor Troy K. Walker

ATTEST:


_________________________________
Laura Oscarson, MMC, City Recorder


VOTE TAKEN:                          YES      NO          ABSENT

Councilmember Green

Councilmember Johnson

Councilmember T. Lowery

Councilmember F. Lowy

Councilmember Vawdrey

Mayor Walker
                                        EXHIBIT “A”

                  Section 10400 – Vehicle Usage and Incident Reporting
                                  (Adopted 02/04/2025)

Draper City employees are responsible for the safe operation of City Vehicles and must
adhere to the guidelines in this policy when driving. This policy establishes procedures for
City Vehicle usage and for reporting and reviewing any Reportable Incident that occurs
involving a City Vehicle.

Definitions:

“City Vehicle” is any vehicle, motorized equipment, or trailer owned by the City, or any
personal or rental vehicle operated for city business.

“Reportable Incident” is any incident involving a City Vehicle that results in damage to the
vehicle or another vehicle, property damage, injury to any person, or immobilization of a
vehicle, or has the potential to become a liability claim. This includes incidents regardless of
damage.

“Preventable Incident” is an incident in which the employee did not follow proper
procedures or did not do everything reasonably expected to avoid the incident.

“Non-Preventable Incident” is an incident in which the employee followed proper procedures
and did everything that could be reasonably expected to avoid the incident.

Policy:

1. Employee Accountability: Employees are accountable for the responsible use of City
   Vehicles. An employee who drives any City Vehicle must:
   A) Hold a valid Utah Driver License for the class of vehicle operated.
   B) Maintain adequate liability insurance when using a personal vehicle for City
        business and carry proof of coverage. The City does not insure personal vehicles.
   C) Not operate a City Vehicle while impaired by alcohol, drugs, or medications. Notify
        your supervisor if any medication may impair driving.
   D) Inspect the vehicle for safe operating conditions per departmental procedures. Do
        not tamper with safety equipment. The Fleet division is responsible for maintaining
        City-owned vehicles.
   E) Adhere to Section 9010 Business Travel and Training Expenses.
   F) Adhere to Section 9020 Vehicle Expenses.
   G) Adhere to Section 10350 Distracted Driving.
   H) Employees assigned a Take Home City Vehicle as defined in 3. of this policy, may
        use it within a 50-mile radius of Draper City Hall.
   I)   Obey Traffic Laws, including seatbelt law.
   J)   Report any tickets received while driving a City Vehicle to your immediate
        supervisor within one business day and pay any fines or penalties incurred.
   K)    Park City Vehicles by backing into spaces or using pull-through spaces when
         possible; diagonal parking exceptions apply only where legally required.
   L)    Adhere to Fuel Card usage rules as assigned by the Fleet Manager.

2. City Vehicle Usage: A City Vehicle shall be used solely for city business.
   A) Driver. Employees may operate a City Vehicle for City business. Individuals
         authorized by the City Manager or designee may also operate them.
   B) Passenger. Employees may travel with another employee or authorized individual
         in a City Vehicle for City business. Non-employee passengers must be:
          i. Engaged in City-related services or improvements;
         ii. Transported as part of an approved city activity; or
        iii. Permitted incidental use as specified in 3. of this policy.
   C) Individuals not authorized by the City Manager or designee are prohibited from
         riding in City Vehicles.

3. Take Home Vehicle: Employees authorized by the City Manager or designee may be
   assigned a take a vehicle home for the purpose of conducting city business effectively or
   when their position is subject to call out for emergency response for City services during
   normal off-duty work hours. Authorized employees may use the vehicle for commuting
   to and from an assigned work location, attending offsite business meetings, or
   participating in designated training sessions. Limited incidental use while engaged in the
   purposes for which the take home vehicle is authorized, is permitted, including activities
   such as stopping by the convenient store, picking up and dropping off dry-cleaning,
   utilizing the drive-through of banks or restaurants, dropping off and picking up children
   from daycare, school, or before and after school activity, or other de minimis personal
   use or circumstance approved by the City Manager or designee. Employees are
   prohibited from loaning their assigned vehicle to others, except for city business. Those
   assigned a take-home vehicle must report the vehicle annually to the Risk Manager for
   insurance renewal. All take-home vehicles are subject to IRS fringe benefit valuation
   rules. The City uses the commuting rule to determine the biweekly fringe benefit amount
   that will be added to the employee’s taxable wages during the payroll process.

4. Reportable Incidents. All Reportable Incidents must be reported to the employee’s
   supervisor, and, if applicable, to local law enforcement.

5. Employee Responsibility in Case of a Reportable Incident:
   A) If safe, remain at the scene until directed otherwise by Draper City personnel.
   B) Contact Draper City Police and medical assistance as needed.
   C) Use warning devices and hazard lights when available.
   D) Do not leave the scene until police arrive and permit you to do so.
   E) Do not admit fault or discuss the incident except with authorized personnel, which
       includes the Draper City Police, your supervisor, Department Director, Risk
       Manager, or City Manager.
   F) Report the incident to your direct supervisor immediately. Failure to report may
       result in disciplinary action, up to and including termination.
   G) Cooperate with Draper City Police on required documentation.
   H)    Complete all required city incident forms and submit them to your supervisor
         within one business day.
   I)    Document the scene thoroughly with photographs if a supervisor is not present.
   J)    Incidents involving City Vehicles and non-City property should be investigated by
         external agencies when possible.

6. Supervisor Responsibility:
   A) The supervisor or designee of the employee(s) involved in a Reportable Incident
        shall respond to the scene of the incident. The supervisor shall notify the
        Department Director, Fleet Manager, and Risk Manager as soon as practical.
   B) The supervisor or designee shall ensure that all appropriate forms are filled out
        properly and thorough photographs are taken of the vehicles involved, damage to
        other property, and the scene in a timely manner.
   C) The supervisor or designee will ensure that the employee is post-accident screened
        as soon as practical, but no later than six hours after the incident, by taking the
        employee to the City’s designated approved local testing facilities. Supervisors
        shall not leave the employee unattended until screening has been completed. If the
        vehicle was unattended at the time of the Reportable Incident and the cause of the
        incident is not linked to any action of the driver, there is no need to post-accident
        screen the employee. Exceptions to post-accident screenings require documented
        supervisor and Risk Manager approval, e.g., minimal damage to City Vehicle and
        no other third-party property damage, and no fault/no damage to third-party
        property.
   D) The supervisor or designee shall conduct an initial investigation and submit all
        paperwork and associated photographs to the Risk Manager, Department Director,
        and Fleet Manager as soon as possible, but no later than two business days after the
        Reportable Incident.
   E) The affected department and Risk Manager will conduct a thorough review of the
        incident and investigation.
   F) The Fleet division will inspect all city-owned vehicles to assess damages and safety
        no later than five business days after the Reportable Incident.
   G) The City Manager shall be notified as soon as possible if there are injuries involved
        in the Reportable Incident.
   H) All non-drivable city-owned vehicles damaged in the Reportable Incident shall be
        towed to Public Works. Either the Draper City Police department or Fleet Manager
        will call for towing.

7. Department Director Responsibility:
   A) Ensure that employees and supervisors understand and comply with this policy.
   B) Notify the Risk Manager and Fleet Manager as soon as practicable and confirm that
       an incident report is prepared and sent to Risk Management no later than two
       business days after the incident.
   C) Determine the necessity and severity of disciplinary action, referencing the
       disciplinary matrix below and in accordance with Section 5030 Corrective Action –
       Performance Management and 6080 Employee Conduct and Work Rules to
       maintain consistency across departments. , If the Department Director decides to
         deviate from the disciplinary matrix or determines disciplinary action against an
         Employee is unwarranted, a written explanation must be provided to Human
         Resources detailing the rationale for the decision.
   D)    Provide a copy of the signed disciplinary action taken to Human Resources for
         retention in the employee’s personnel file.

8. Risk Committee. An internal Risk Committee (the “Committee”) is established
   consisting of the following representatives: Assistant City Manager, Finance Director,
   Fleet Manager, Human Resources Director, and Risk Manager. The City Attorney serves
   on the Committee in an advisory capacity. This committee shall review all Reportable
   Incidents involving City Vehicles and other city-owned and operated assets. A minimum
   of three representatives must be present for final recommendations to be made. The
   Committee may also convene to review any incident or loss event at the special request
   of the City Manager or affiliated Department Director.

   The Committee will meet together with the involved employee and their Department
   Director or designee. The Department Director or designee shall come prepared to give
   a detailed account of the incident. Attendance by the involved employee is mandatory
   unless extenuating circumstances exist; in such cases, the employee may request to
   reschedule one time in writing to their Department Director. The Risk Manager will
   chair the committee during the Committee review.

   The Committee shall meet regularly, as determined by the City Manager, to
   review incidents and determine:
   A) The cause of the Reportable Incident.
   B) Whether the Reportable Incident was preventable or non-preventable.
   C) Whether the employee was following safety policies and practices.
   D) How similar incidents may be prevented in the future.
   E) Whether disciplinary action is warranted, and if so, what level of discipline is
        recommended. These recommendations are advisory and are not mandatory for the
        Department Director to follow. The Human Resources Director shall follow up
        with the Department Director to verify that any appropriate disciplinary action has
        been enacted and documented. The Risk Manager will maintain records to ensure
        consistency across all departments.
   F) Whether additional training or policy changes, or both, should be
        implemented to address the causes of a Preventable Incident.

9. Disciplinary Matrix, based on Section 5030 Corrective Action – Performance
   Improvement)
   A) No action is required.
   B) Documented counseling; may also require defensive driving course or training.
   C) Written corrective action.
   D) Written corrective action and up to a two-day suspension without pay. May also
        include a performance improvement plan, defensive driving course or training, ride-
        along, coaching, or other corrective measure.
   E) Dismissal. Comply with Section 5030.
   Disciplinary Matrix                                            A     B      C     D      E
   Non-preventable incident                                       X
   Preventable incident, no damage                                X
   Repeat preventable or non-preventable incident involving             X
   minor damage less than $5,000 within 180 days
   Preventable incident involving minor damage less than                X
   $5,000
   Failure to report a vehicle incident                                        X
   Preventable incident with damage equal to or greater than                   X
   $5,000 but less than $10,000
   Failure to observe traffic laws                                             X
   Failure to follow Draper City Policy                                        X
   Preventable incident involving injury                                       X
   Driving with unsecured load that causes an incident                         X
   Preventable incident involving damage equal to or                                 X
   greater than $10,000
   Leaving the scene of an incident                                                  X
   Repeat preventable incident involving damage or injury,                           X
   greater than $5000 within 180 days
   Pattern of repeated incident within a 30-day time period                          X
   (preventable or non-preventable)
   Operating City Vehicle while impaired (failed breath                                     X
   alcohol or drug screen)
   Reckless driving                                                                         X
   Willful intent to harm                                                                   X
   Preventable incident that results in the death of another                                X
   person

10. Committee Findings and Recommendations. A written record summarizing the
    Committee’s findings and recommendations will be prepared by the Risk Manager. A
    copy will be sent to the Department Director. The Department Director will make the
    final decision on any and all applicable disciplinary or corrective actions taken and
    implemented.

11. Action Taken. The Department Director will compile a written statement detailing the
    final decision made regarding any disciplinary or corrective action, including supporting
    commentary, and submit it to the Human Resources Director. Any disciplinary action
    imposed by the Department Director shall adhere to the procedures outlined in this
    policy and Section 5030. The immediate supervisor of the involved employee will be
    responsible for administering or monitoring the implementation of any actions or
    programs determined by the Department Director. A copy of all disciplinary actions shall
    be forwarded to Human Resources for retention in the employee’s personnel file.
12. Appeals. An appeal of any discipline or corrective action decision or implementation
    resulting from an incident will follow the standard disciplinary appeal process as
    outlined in Section 5030.
