                                 Development Review Committee
                                     1020 East Pioneer Road
                                       Draper, UT 84020
                                       November 6, 2025

To:               Draper City Planning Commission
                  Business Date: November 20, 2025

From:             Development Review Committee

Prepared By: Paul Geilman, Planning Coordinator
             Planning Division
             Community Development Department
             801-576-6551, paul.geilman@draperutah.gov

Re:      Elite Esthetics – Conditional Use Permit Request
         Application No.: 2025-0253-USE
         Applicant:          Dustin Haas, representing Draper Land Company no. 2 LLC and
                             Elite Esthetics
         Project Location: 66 E Wadsworth Park Dr.
         Current Zoning: CO2 (Professional Office) Zone
         Acreage:            3.15 Acres (Approximately 137,214 ft2)
         Request:            Request for approval of the Trade/Vocational School Use for a
                             Master Esthetics Program to operate at this location.



BACKGROUND AND SUMMARY

This application is a request for approval of a Conditional Use Permit for approximately
3.15 acres located on the North Side of Minuteman Dr. at approximately 66 E Wadsworth
Dr. (Exhibit B & C). The property is currently zoned CO2. The applicant is requesting that a
Conditional Use Permit be approved to allow the Trade/Vocational School Use for a Master
Esthetics Program at this location.

This location was developed as a part of the Wadsworth Industrial Park platted in 1994. The
land directly to the south was previously leased from UDOT until the owners of 66 E
Wadsworth Dr. purchased that land. Currently there is an easement that has been
recorded between said properties as of October 3, 2025 allowing cross access and shared
parking.




Elite Esthetics                                                     2025-0253-USE
Conditional Use Permit Request                1
ANALYSIS

General Plan and Zoning.

 Table 1                    General Plan and Zoning Designations                    Exhibit
 Existing Land Use          Community and Neighborhood Commercial                   Exhibit D
 Current Zoning             CO2                                                     Exhibit E
 Proposed Use               Trade/Vocational School
 Adjacent Zoning
     East                   CO2, CR (Regional Commercial)
     West                   CSD-136C
     North                  CO2
     South                  CBP

The Community Commercial and Neighborhood Commercial land use designations are
characterized as follows:




Elite Esthetics                                                     2025-0253-USE
Conditional Use Permit Request                   2
According to Draper City Municipal Code (DCMC) Section 9-8-020 the purpose of the CO2
zone is to “provide locations primarily along arterial or major collector streets which will
accommodate offices or laboratories for professional persons and other related uses. The
zone is intended to provide availability of professional services conveniently to all
neighborhoods in the city. Two (2) CO zones are provided: CO1 and CO2. CO1 zones are
intended to allow office and related uses on relatively small tracts of land so they can be
conveniently and compatibly located adjacent to residential areas. CO2 zones allow larger
office and related use developments adjacent to commercial areas and away from
residential areas. Typical uses in this zone include offices for doctors, dentists, accountants,
and other similar professions, medical and dental laboratories, and pharmacies.”


The goal of Elite Esthetics is to deliver Master Esthetician career-ready training aligned with
Utah’s licensure standards, while offering the public a limited, appointment-based menu of
personal-care treatments as part of student practicum. The business intends to operate
during the hours of Monday- Saturday from 8:00 am – 5:00 pm. Peak onsite personnel
anticipated is 26 individuals including students, staff, and clients. Client services are
appointment based and student schedules rotated to limit the potential detrimental impact
of increased parking to this site, in addition to the property owner recording a cross access



Elite Esthetics                                                       2025-0253-USE
Conditional Use Permit Request                 3
easement for additional parking with the parcel to the south. With this additional parking
the provided parking rate for the This business description fits the Draper City Code
definition of Trade/Vocational School as defined by DCMC 9-3-040 as: “ An establishment,
for profit or not, conducting a course of instruction, training, or retraining to prepare
individuals to follow an occupation or trade offering regularly scheduled instruction in
technical, commercial or trade skills, such as, but not limited to, business, real estate,
building and construction trades, electronics, computer programming and technology,
automotive and aircraft mechanics and technology, and similar types of instruction.”
Trade/Vocational School Business Use is a Conditional Use in the CO2 zone. There will be
no indications on the exterior what business is operating. There are no emissions beyond
normal salon-grade operations, and waste is handled per industry practice and applicable
building and health codes.



Criteria For Approval.

The criteria for review and potential approval of a conditional use permit request are found
in Section 9-5-080(E) of the DCMC. This section depicts the standard of review for such
requests as:

         E. Approval Standards: The standards of this subsection shall apply to the issuance
             of a conditional use permit:
          1. A conditional use permit may be issued for a use to be located within a zone
             where the particular conditional use is allowed by the use regulations of the
             zone.
          2. Reasonable conditions may be imposed as necessary to substantially mitigate
             reasonably anticipated detrimental effects of the proposed use. These
             conditions may include conditions concerning use, construction, character,
             location, landscaping, screening, parking, hours of operation, and other matters
             relating to the purposes and objectives of this section. Such conditions shall be
             expressly set forth in the motion authorizing the conditional use permit.
          3. If the reasonably anticipated detrimental effects of a proposed conditional use
             cannot be substantially mitigated by the imposition of reasonable conditions to
             achieve compliance with applicable standards, the conditional use may be
             denied.
          4. The following factors shall be reviewed and considered in determining whether a
             conditional use permit application should be approved, approved with
             conditions, or denied because reasonable conditions cannot be imposed to
             achieve compliance with applicable standards:
               a. The harmony and compliance of the proposed use with the objectives and
                  requirements of the city's general plan and this title;
               b. The suitability of the specific property for the proposed use;




Elite Esthetics                                                      2025-0253-USE
Conditional Use Permit Request                 4
              c. Whether the proposed use or facility may be injurious to potential or existing
                 development in the vicinity;
              d. The economic impact of the proposed facility or use on the surrounding
                 area;
              e. The aesthetic impact of the proposed facility or use on the surrounding area;
              f. The safeguards proposed or provided to ensure adequate utilities,
                 transportation access, drainage, parking, loading space, lighting, screening,
                 landscaping, open space, fire protection, and pedestrian and vehicular
                 circulation;
              g. The safeguards provided or proposed to prevent noxious or offensive
                 emissions such as noise, glare, dust, pollutants and odor from the proposed
                 facility or use; and
              h. The impact of the proposed facility or use on the health, safety, and welfare
                 of the city, the area, and persons owning or leasing property in the area.
          5. The planning commission may request additional information as may be
             reasonably needed to determine whether the requirements of this subsection E
             can be met.


REVIEWS

Planning Division Review. The Draper City Planning Division has completed their review of
the Conditional Use Permit submission. Comments from this division, if any, can be found
in Exhibit A.

Engineering and Public Works Divisions Review. The Draper City Engineering and Public
Works Divisions have completed their reviews of the Conditional Use Permit submission.
Comments from these divisions, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Building Division Review. The Draper City Building Division has completed their review of
the Conditional Use Permit submission. Comments from this division, if any, can be found
in Exhibit A.

Fire Division Review. The Draper City Fire Marshal has completed his review of the
Conditional Use Permit submission. Comments from this division, if any, can be found in
Exhibit A.

Noticing. Notice has been properly issued in the manner outlined in the City and State
Codes.



STAFF RECOMMENDATION




Elite Esthetics                                                       2025-0253-USE
Conditional Use Permit Request                  5
Staff recommends that the Planning Commission review the request based on the findings
listed below and the criteria for approval, or denial as listed within the staff report. The
Planning Commission should also review the request, hear from the applicant, and receive
public comment prior to making a decision.

If the Planning Commission decides to approve the request, staff recommends they include
the following conditions of approval:

         1.       That all requirements of the Draper City Engineering, Public Works, Building,
                  Planning, and Fire Divisions are satisfied throughout the development of the
                  site and the construction of all buildings on the site, including permitting.
         2.       That a current business license will be maintained with Draper City by Elite
                  Esthetics Academy LLC.



MODEL MOTIONS

Sample Motion for Approval – I move that we approve the Elite Esthetics Conditional Use
Permit, as requested by Dustin Haas representing Elite Esthetics, application 2025-0253-
USE, based on the findings for approval and subject to the conditions listed in the Staff
Report dated November 6, 2025.
Findings for Approval:

    1. The proposed use will not be detrimental to the health, safety or general warfare of
       persons residing or working in the vicinity, or will be injurious to property or
       improvements in the vicinity.
    2. The propose use is necessary or desirable to provide a service or facility which will
       contribute to the general well-being of the neighborhood and the community.
    3. The proposed use complies with the regulations and conditions specified in Section
       9-5-080(E) of the Draper City Municipal Code.

Sample Motion for Modified Approval– I move that we approve the Elite Esthetics
Conditional Use Permit, as requested by Dustin Haas representing Elite Esthetics,
application 2025-0253-USE, based on the findings for approval and subject to the
conditions listed in the Staff Report dated November 6, 2025 and as modified by the
findings and conditions below:

         1. (List any additional findings and conditions…)

Sample Motion for Denial – I move that we deny the Conditional Use Permit, as requested
by Dustin Haas, representing Elite Esthetics for application 2025-0253-USE, based on the
findings for denial listed in the Staff Report dated November 6, 2025, and as modified by
the findings below:



Elite Esthetics                                                        2025-0253-USE
Conditional Use Permit Request                   6
Findings for Denial:
   1. The proposed use will be detrimental to the health, safety or general warfare of
       persons residing or working in the vicinity, or will be injurious to property or
       improvements in the vicinity.
   2. The propose use is not necessary or desirable to provide a service or facility which
       will contribute to the general well-being of the neighborhood and the community.
   3. The proposed use does not comply with one or more of the regulations or
       conditions specified in Section 9-5-080(E) of the Draper City Municipal Code.




Elite Esthetics                                                    2025-0253-USE
Conditional Use Permit Request               7
                                       EXHIBIT A
                                  DEPARTMENT REVIEWS

REVIEWS ARE NOT MEANT TO BE AN ALL INCLUSIVE LIST OF POSSIBLE COMMENTS OR
CONDITIONS.



Planning Division Review.

       1.     No additional comments provided.

Engineering and Public Works Divisions Review.

       1.     No issues with public ROW, utilities, or traffic. No on-street parking.

Building Division Review.

       1.     No additional comments provided.

Fire Division Review.

       1.     No additional comments provided.
  EXHIBIT B
VICINITY MAP
 EXHIBIT C
AERIAL MAP
  EXHIBIT D
LAND USE MAP
 EXHIBIT E
ZONING MAP
       EXHIBIT K
APPLICANT QUESTIONAIRE
                                       CUP Application

                                 Overview of Proposed Use

                                   Elite Esthetics Academy


Elite Esthetics Academy will operate a Master Esthetics Program (1,200 hours) with an
integrated, supervised clinical practicum (300 hours) in a tenant suite at 66 E Wadsworth Park
Drive, Suite 140. The school’s mission is to deliver career-ready training aligned with Utah’s
licensure standards while offering the public a limited, appointment-based menu of personal-care
treatments as part of student practicum.


Core Elements:
• Curriculum includes skin biology, advanced facial modalities (Hydrafacial, microneedling,
laser), peels, microdermabrasion, client consultation, and safety.
• Clinical Integration: 300-hour practicum with booking, electronic charting, and follow-up
under licensed supervision.
• Services & Equipment: Facials, Hydrafacials, microneedling, peels, microdermabrasion, and
light-based services using professional devices (Hydrafacial Syndeo, SkinPen, IPLASER 360).
• Operational Scale: Small cohorts with staggered scheduling ensure that only a subset of
students are on site at any time; peak on-site presence is approximately 26 persons (students,
staff, clients).
• Parking & Circulation: Appointment-based client flow and rotating cohorts keep parking
demand modest and consistent with multi-tenant commercial expectations.
• Hours of Operation: Monday – Saturday: 8:00am-5:00pm

Community Benefits:
• Supplies a pipeline of licensed Master Estheticians trained on current technologies and best
practices.
• Supports local employers (spas/med spas) with graduates who have hands-on, supervised
experience.
• Adds a quiet, professional, service-oriented tenant that complements surrounding
office/commercial uses.

Anticipated Detrimental Effects:
• No detrimental effects are anticipated to adjacent properties, existing building tenants, or the
neighborhood.
                                      CUP Application

                       Statement of Compliance with Standards

                                  Elite Esthetics Academy



1) Compatibility with Surrounding Uses

The operation is low-intensity and tenant-scale in a professional/office setting. Peak on-site
presence is approximately 26 persons (students, staff, and clients) due to small cohorts and
staggered scheduling—more akin to a salon plus a small instructional studio than a campus. All
activity is indoors; there are no outdoor classes, assemblies, or amplified sound. All student
services occur under licensed instructor oversight as part of a structured clinical practicum.


2) Traffic, Access, and Parking

Client services are appointment-based and student schedules are rotated, which flattens peaks
and keeps trip generation modest and predictable. A typical busy period includes about 10
students in class, 5 students on spa shift, 6 clients, and 5 staff, supporting manageable parking
demand and orderly circulation consistent with multi-tenant commercial expectations. Adequate
parking is existing and provided for the existing building at a ratio of 5.44/1000 square feet.
There would be no negative impact on the parking, utilities, access, health, safety and welfare of
the City or area as a result of the operation of Elite Esthetics Academy.


3) Public Health, Safety, and Welfare

The Academy delivers a 1,200-hour Master Esthetics curriculum with dedicated instruction in
safety protocols, client consultation, sanitation, and clinical standards. The 300-hour clinical
practicum is supervised and includes booking, electronic charting, and post-treatment follow-up,
reinforcing client safety and traceability. Equipment and services mirror professional med-spa
settings; all treatments occur under licensed supervision following established SOPs.


4) Noise, Light, Odor, and Other Impacts

No amplified sound or exterior activities are proposed. There are no emissions beyond normal
salon-grade operations, and waste is handled per industry practice and applicable building and
health codes. Hours are typical business hours; deliveries are consistent with office/service
tenants.
5) Conformance with Plans, Policies, and Zoning Intent

The project advances local workforce development and career education in a high-demand sector
while operating at a low, office-compatible intensity, creating a positive economic impact on the
City and surrounding area. Instructional and personal-care functions are both common within
commercial office settings when scaled and managed as described. Program elements, safety
protocols, and operations are documented in the Academy’s planning materials.


6) Information for Further Consideration

•   This use is in harmony and suitable for the existing property (professional office building)
    and surrounding uses.
•   Appointment-only client services to manage peak demand and parking.
•   Staggered cohorts and capped class sizes; maintain peak on-site presence at approximately 26
    persons absent specific City approval to increase.
•   Licensed instructor supervision for all student services in accordance with state standards and
    Academy protocols.
•   Indoor-only operations; no exterior instruction, events, or amplified sound.
•   Maintain device SOPs, sanitation logs, and incident procedures consistent with curriculum
    and clinical practicum requirements.
