                                 Development Review Committee
                                     1020 East Pioneer Road
                                       Draper, Utah 84020


                                        STAFF REPORT
                                         March 4, 2025

To:                   Draper City Planning Commission
                      Business Date: March 13, 2025

From:                 Development Review Committee

Prepared By:          Maryann Pickering, AICP, Planner III
                      Planning Division
                      Community Development Department
                      (801) 576-6391 or maryann.pickering@draperutah.gov

Re:      Packer Fence - Conditional Use Permit Request
         Application No.:    2024-0428-USE
         Applicant:          Shaun Sudbury of Signature Construction, representing the
                             Malama and Polihale Trusts
         Project Location:   12939 S. Boulter Street
         Current Zoning:     RA1 (Residential Agricultural, 40,000 sq. ft. minimum) and RA2
                             (Residential Agricultural, 20,000 sq. ft. minimum) Zones
         Acreage:            Approximately 2.43 acres (105,850 sq. ft.)
         Request:            Request for approval of a conditional use permit to allow for a
                             fence taller than six feet in height.



BACKGROUND AND SUMMARY
This application is a request for approval of a conditional use permit for approximately 2.43
acres located on the east side of Boulter Street at approximately 12939 S. Boulter Street
(Exhibits B and C). The property is currently zoned RA1 and RA2. The applicant is
requesting that a conditional use permit be approved to allow a ten-foot tall fence to be
installed along the east property line.

The property is not located within a recorded subdivision and is currently under
construction with a single-family home and associated accessory structures.




12939 S. Boulter Street                                              App. # 2024-0428-USE
Conditional Use Permit Request                 1
ANALYSIS
General Plan and Zoning.

 Table 1                    General Plan and Zoning Designations                 Exhibit
 Existing Land Use          Residential Low/Medium Density                       Exhibit D
 Current Zoning             RA1 and RA2                                          Exhibit E
 Existing Use               Single Family Home under Construction
 Adjacent Zoning
    East                    A5 (Agricultural) and RA2
    West                    RA2
    North                   RA1 and RA2
    South                   RA2

The Residential Low/Medium Density land use designation is characterized as follows:




12939 S. Boulter Street                                             App. # 2024-0428-USE
Conditional Use Permit Request                     2
According to Draper City Municipal Code (DCMC) Section 9-8-020: “The purpose of the RA1
and RA2 zones is to foster low-density development with little impact on its surroundings
and municipal services; to generally preserve the character of the city's semirural areas;
and to promote and preserve conditions favorable to large lot family life, including the
keeping of limited numbers of animals and fowl. The predominant use in these zones is
intended to be detached single-family dwellings, protected from encroachment by
commercial and industrial uses.”

Fencing. The site plan (Exhibit F) shows the locations of the existing fencing proposed to be
built along the east property line. The applicant desires to install new fencing that is ten
feet tall along the east property line. The fence will be constructed as an eight-foot Trex
fence installed on top of a two-foot concrete wall (Exhibit F). The applicant has indicated
that the taller fence is desired due to grade changes and the proximity of the public trail
that borders the eastern edge of the property (Exhibit G). The taller fence will provide both
more privacy and security.

 Table 2                         Fencing Design Requirements
 Standard                        DCMC Requirements      Proposal              Notes
 Height
    Front                        Four foot maximum       No fence proposed
    Rear                         Six foot maximum        No fence proposed
    East Side                    Six foot maximum        8 feet requested
    West Side                    Six foot maximum        No fence proposed

Subsection 9-27-080(A)(2) in the DCMC states:

    When located behind the front wall plane a fence, wall, or other visual obstruction, not
    including trees, shall not exceed six feet (6') in height unless a greater height is allowed
    by a conditional use permit or as otherwise permitted in this title.

The applicant is requesting a fence height that is greater than six-feet which requires the
applicant to seek approval of a conditional use permit.

Criteria For Approval.
The criteria for review and potential approval of a conditional use permit request are found
in Section 9-5-080(E) of the DCMC. This section depicts the standard of review for such
requests as:

    E.       Approval Standards: The standards of this subsection shall apply to the issuance
             of a conditional use permit:
             1.     A conditional use permit may be issued for a use to be located within a
                    zone where the particular conditional use is allowed by the use
                    regulations of the zone.


12939 S. Boulter Street                                                 App. # 2024-0428-USE
Conditional Use Permit Request                       3
             2.       Reasonable conditions may be imposed as necessary to substantially
                      mitigate reasonably anticipated detrimental effects of the proposed use.
                      These conditions may include conditions concerning use, construction,
                      character, location, landscaping, screening, parking, hours of operation,
                      and other matters relating to the purposes and objectives of this section.
                      Such conditions shall be expressly set forth in the motion authorizing the
                      conditional use permit.
             3.       If the reasonably anticipated detrimental effects of a proposed
                      conditional use cannot be substantially mitigated by the imposition of
                      reasonable conditions to achieve compliance with applicable standards,
                      the conditional use may be denied.
             4.       The following factors shall be reviewed and considered in determining
                      whether a conditional use permit application should be approved,
                      approved with conditions, or denied because reasonable conditions
                      cannot be imposed to achieve compliance with applicable standards:
                      a.      The harmony and compliance of the proposed use with the
                              objectives and requirements of the city's general plan and this
                              title;
                      b.      The suitability of the specific property for the proposed use;
                      c.      Whether the proposed use or facility may be injurious to potential
                              or existing development in the vicinity;
                      d.      The economic impact of the proposed facility or use on the
                              surrounding area;
                      e.      The aesthetic impact of the proposed facility or use on the
                              surrounding area;
                      f.      The safeguards proposed or provided to ensure adequate utilities,
                              transportation access, drainage, parking, loading space, lighting,
                              screening, landscaping, open space, fire protection, and
                              pedestrian and vehicular circulation;
                      g.      The safeguards provided or proposed to prevent noxious or
                              offensive emissions such as noise, glare, dust, pollutants and odor
                              from the proposed facility or use; and
                      h.      The impact of the proposed facility or use on the health, safety,
                              and welfare of the city, the area, and persons owning or leasing
                              property in the area.
             5.       The planning commission may request additional information as may be
                      reasonably needed to determine whether the requirements of this
                      subsection E can be met.

REVIEWS
Planning Division Review. The Draper City Planning Division has completed their review of
the conditional use permit submission. Comments from this division, if any, can be found
in Exhibit A.



12939 S. Boulter Street                                                 App. # 2024-0428-USE
Conditional Use Permit Request                    4
Engineering and Public Works Divisions Review. The Draper City Engineering and Public
Works Divisions have completed their reviews of the conditional use permit submission.
Comments from these divisions, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Building Division Review. The Draper City Building Division has completed their review of
the conditional use permit submission. Comments from this division, if any, can be found
in Exhibit A.

Fire Division Review. The Draper City Fire Marshal has completed his review of the
conditional use permit submission. Comments from this division, if any, can be found in
Exhibit A.

Noticing. Notice has been properly issued in the manner outlined in the City and State
Codes.



STAFF RECOMMENDATION
Staff recommends that the Planning Commission review the request, receive public
comment, and approve the conditional use permit based on the findings for approval and
the criteria for approval as listed within this staff report.

If the Planning Commission decides to approve the request, staff recommends they include
the following conditions of approval:

1.       That all requirements of the Draper City Engineering, Building and Planning
         Divisions are satisfied throughout the construction of the fence, including
         permitting.
2.       That the fencing shall not exceed ten feet in height and shall be constructed only in
         the locations indicated on the approved site plan.


MODEL MOTIONS AND FINDINGS
Sample Motion for Approval – I move that we approve the conditional use permit, as
requested by Shaun Sudbury, application 2024-0428-USE, based on the following findings
for approval and subject to the conditions listed in the staff report dated March 4, 2025.

Findings for approval:

1.       Reasonable mitigation measures are placed on the conditional use to alleviate
         anticipated detrimental effects.




12939 S. Boulter Street                                               App. # 2024-0428-USE
Conditional Use Permit Request                  5
Sample Motion for Modified Approval – I move that we approve the conditional use permit,
as requested by Shaun Sudbury, application 2024-0428-USE, based on the following
findings for approval and subject to the conditions listed in the staff report dated March 4,
2025, including the following additional findings or conditions:

1.       List any additional findings…
2.       List any additional conditions…

Sample Motion for Denial – I move that we deny the conditional use permit, as requested
by Shaun Sudbury, application 2024-0428-USE, based on the following findings for denial:

Findings for denial:

1.       Reasonable mitigation measures are not able to be placed on the conditional use to
         sufficiently alleviate anticipated detrimental effects.




12939 S. Boulter Street                                              App. # 2024-0428-USE
Conditional Use Permit Request                6
                                     EXHIBIT A
                                DEPARTMENT REVIEWS

REVIEWS ARE NOT MEANT TO BE AN ALL-INCLUSIVE LIST OF POSSIBLE COMMENTS OR
CONDITIONS.

Planning Division Review.
No additional comments.

Building Division Review.
No additional comments.

Engineering and Public Works Divisions Review.
No additional comments.

Fire Division Review.
No additional comments.
  EXHIBIT B
VICINITY MAP
 EXHIBIT C
AERIAL MAP
  EXHIBIT D
LAND USE MAP
 EXHIBIT E
ZONING MAP
       EXHIBIT F
SITE PLAN AND DETAILS
12939 S Boulter Street
Owner: Brad Packer / Ph: 801-205-4170
Fence Type: Trex, 8 Foot x 135’ w/ 2 foot retaining concrete wall. 10” Depth 4’
Footing. Posts Concreted in place.
Valuation: $9,500
Contractor: Signature Construction and Management/ Shaun Sudbury 801-230-
7600
Engineering:
      EXHIBIT G
APPLICANT’S REQUEST
City Code 9-5-080 E 4
12939 S Boulter St, Draper

a-
The proposed fence installation aligns with the city's General Plan objectives by enhancing
neighborhood security and privacy while maintaining aesthetic harmony. The fence design
complements existing architectural elements in the area and meets all dimensional
requirements outlined in the municipal code. This fence will preserve property values and
contribute to the orderly development of the neighborhood, supporting the city's goals for
residential infrastructure and privacy improvements.

The installation adheres to all setback, height, and material specifications required by the title,
ensuring both functional and visual compatibility with surrounding properties. This compliance
demonstrates our commitment to maintaining the established character of the area while meeting
contemporary security needs.


b-
The property is well-suited for the proposed fence installation due to its residential zoning, clear
property boundaries, and level topography. The site provides adequate space for the fence while
maintaining required setbacks and access points. The property's layout enables proper fence
alignment without disrupting drainage patterns or existing utilities, making it an appropriate
location for this improvement.

c-
The proposed fence installation poses no hazards to neighboring properties or existing
development. The design and materials meet safety standards, with proper anchoring and
structural integrity. Installation will follow established construction practices to prevent
disruption to adjacent properties, utilities, or drainage patterns.

d-
The proposed fence installation will maintain and potentially enhance property values in the
surrounding area. It represents a property improvement that promotes security and aesthetic
appeal without creating any negative economic impact on neighboring properties. The fence
installation will be completed by licensed contractors, while adhering to all permitting
requirements and building codes.

e-
The proposed 8’ fence installation harmonizes with the neighborhood's aesthetic character
through thoughtful design and high-quality materials. The fence height, style, and finish
complement existing architectural elements while maintaining visual continuity with surrounding
properties. The installation preserves sightlines and incorporates appropriate setbacks to
minimize visual impact, ensuring the fence enhances rather than detracts from the area's overall
appearance
f-
n/a

g-
n/a

h-
The proposed fence installation impacts community welfare in several key aspects:

Safety & Security:

      •   Provides clear property boundaries and controlled access
      •   Enhances security for residents through physical barriers
      •   Prevents unauthorized entry and trespassing

Health & Environmental Considerations:

      •   Creates defined spaces for safe outdoor activities, and from the public path
      •   Maintains property values through consistent neighborhood aesthetics
      •   Minimizes potential conflicts between adjacent property uses and public path

Community Impact:

      •   Establishes visual and physical boundaries between different land uses
      •   Supports privacy while maintaining neighborhood character
      •   Ensures compliance with local zoning and safety regulations

A properly installed fence meeting permit requirements will protect property rights while
supporting broader community standards and safety goals.
