                               Development Review Committee
                                    1020 East Pioneer Road
                                      Draper, UT 84020
                                        April 16, 2025

To:             Draper City Planning Commission
                Business Date: April 24, 2025

From:           Development Review Committee

Prepared By: Todd A. Draper, AICP, Planning Manager
             Planning Division
             Community Development Department
             801-576-6335, todd.draper@draperutah.gov

Re:     Granite Construction – Zoning Map Amendment Request
        Application No.: 2025-0046-MA
        Applicant:        Tina Mudd, representing Granite Construction Company and
                          Stack Bangerter LLC.
        Project Location: 13488 S. 200 W.
        Current Zoning: CBP (Business/Manufacturing Park) Zone
        Acreage:          Approximately 0.85 Acres (Approximately 37,026 ft2)
        Request:          Request for approval of a Zoning Map Amendment from the CBP
                          zone to the M1(Light Manufacturing) zone regarding future
                          development of a construction sales and service yard.



BACKGROUND AND SUMMARY

This application is a request for approval of a Zoning Map Amendment for approximately
0.85 acres located on the north side of 13800 S. and south of Bangerter Highway, at
approximately 13488 S. 200 W. (Exhibit C & D). The property is currently zoned CBP. The
applicant is requesting a zone change to the M1 zone be approved to allow for the
currently vacant property to be developed with two other adjacent parcels into a
construction sales and service yard.



ANALYSIS

General Plan and Zoning.



Granite Construction                                              App. # 2025-0046-MA
Zoning Map Amendment Request                  1
 Table 1                 General Plan and Zoning Designations                          Exhibit
 Existing Land Use       Business and Light Manufacturing                              Exhibit E
 Current Zoning          CBP                                                           Exhibit F
 Proposed Use
 Adjacent Zoning
     East                CSD-IOP (Irvine Commercial Special District)
     West                M1
     North               CBP, DC (Destination Commercial), Bangerter
                         Highway
     South               M1 (State of Utah, The Point Development)

The Business and Light Manufacturing land use designation is characterized as follows:




According to Draper City Municipal Code (DCMC) Section 9-8-020 the purpose of the CBP
zone is to “provide aesthetically attractive planned developments having a mix of office,
research and development, light manufacturing, and limited retail uses. Typical uses in this zone
include offices, clean indoor manufacturing facilities, service retail, restaurants, athletic clubs,
personal service shops, medical offices, office/warehouse buildings, and research facilities.”

The purpose of the M1 zone is to, “provide areas for uses involving processing and assembly of
manufactured goods, warehousing, and material storage. Uses which generate excessive noise,
vibration, odor, dust, and fumes are excluded from this zone.”



Granite Construction                                                      App. # 2025-0046-MA
Zoning Map Amendment Request                     2
Zoning Map Amendment

The proposed M1 zone is identified as a compatible zoning designation in the Business and
Light Manufacturing land use category and no change to the Land Use Map is needed with
this application. The zone change would bring the property into alignment with the zoning
of the other two parcels to the west under the same ownership as the subject parcel. The
zone change would allow for all three parcels to be developed together as a construction
sales and service yard under a future Site Plan Application. A comparison chart between
the proposed M1 zone and existing CBP zone is included in this report as Exhibit H. Many
of the same uses are allowed in either zone and are highlighted in green within the
comparison chart. Uses that are allowed in the M1 zone, but not the CBP zone are
highlighted in orange within the comparison chart, however staff notes that these uses are
already allowed uses on the other two parcels that make up the intended development
site.

Criteria For Approval.

A Text and Map Amendment is a matter committed to the legislative discretion of the City
Council and is not controlled by any one standard. However, in making a recommendation
to the City Council, the Planning Commission should consider the following factors in
Section 9-5-060(E) of the DCMC:

        1. Map Amendments:
            a. Whether the proposed amendment is consistent with goals, objectives and policies
               of the city's general plan;
            b. Whether the proposed amendment is harmonious with the overall character of
               existing development in the vicinity of the subject property;
            c. Whether the proposed amendment is consistent with the standards of any
               applicable overlay zone;
            d. The extent to which the proposed amendment may adversely affect adjacent
               property; and
            e. The adequacy of facilities and services intended to serve the subject property,
               including, but not limited to, roadways, parks and recreation facilities, police and
               fire protection, schools, stormwater drainage systems, water supplies, and
               wastewater and refuse collection.



REVIEWS

Planning Division Review. The Draper City Planning Division has completed their review of
the Zoning Map Amendment submission. Comments from this division, if any, can be
found in Exhibit A.



Granite Construction                                                     App. # 2025-0046-MA
Zoning Map Amendment Request                    3
Engineering and Public Works Divisions Review. The Draper City Engineering and Public
Works Divisions have completed their reviews of the Zoning Map Amendment submission.
Comments from these divisions, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Building Division Review. The Draper City Building Division has completed their review of the
Zoning Map Amendment submission. Comments from this division, if any, can be found in
Exhibit A.

Fire Division Review. The Draper City Fire Marshal has completed his review of the Zoning
Map Amendment submission. Comments from this division, if any, can be found in Exhibit
A.

GIS Division Review. The Draper City GIS Division has completed their review of the Zoning
Map Amendment submission. Comments from this division, if any, can be found in Exhibit
A.

Legal Division Review. The Draper City Attorney has completed their review of the Zoning
Map Amendment submission. Comments from this division, if any, can be found in Exhibit
A.

Noticing. Notice has been properly issued in the manner outlined in the City and State
Codes.



STAFF RECOMMENDATION

Staff recommends that the Planning Commission review the request based on the findings
and criteria for approval, or denial as listed within the staff report and make a
recommendation to the City Council. The Planning Commission should also review the
request, hear from the applicant, and receive public comment prior to making a decision.



MODEL MOTIONS

Sample Motion for a Positive Recommendation - I move that we forward a positive
recommendation to the City Council for the Zoning Map Amendment, as requested by Tina
Mudd, representing Granite Construction Company and Stack Bangerter LLC. for
application 2025-0046-MA, based on the findings for approval as listed in the Staff Report
dated April 16, 2025.

Findings for Approval:




Granite Construction                                                App. # 2025-0046-MA
Zoning Map Amendment Request                  4
        1. The proposed zoning map amendment is consistent with goals, objectives, and
           policies of the city's general plan.
        2. The proposed zoning map amendment is harmonious with the overall character
           of existing development in the vicinity of the subject property.
        3. The proposed zoning map amendment is consistent with the standards of any
           applicable overlay zone.
        4. The proposed zoning map amendment will not adversely affect adjacent
           property.
        5. There are adequate facilities and services intended to serve the subject property,
           including, but not limited to, roadways, parks and recreation facilities, police and
           fire protection, schools, stormwater drainage systems, water supplies, and
           wastewater and refuse collection.

Sample Motion for Modified Positive Recommendation– I move that we forward a positive
recommendation to the City Council for the Zoning Map Amendment, as requested by Tina
Mudd, representing Granite Construction Company and Stack Bangerter LLC. for
application 2025-0046-MA, based on the findings for approval as listed in the Staff Report
dated April 16, 2025 including the following additional findings:

        1.   (List any additional findings…)

Sample Motion for Negative Recommendation – I move that we forward a negative
recommendation to the City Council for the Zoning Map Amendment, as requested by Tina
Mudd, representing Granite Construction Company and Stack Bangerter LLC. for
application 2025-0046-MA, based on the findings for denial as listed in the Staff Report
dated April 16, 2025.

Findings for Denial:
       1. The proposed zoning map amendment is not consistent with goals, objectives,
           and policies of the city's general plan.
       2. The proposed zoning map amendment is not harmonious with the overall
           character of existing development in the vicinity of the subject property.
       3. The proposed zoning map amendment will adversely affect adjacent property.
       4. There are not adequate facilities and services intended to serve the subject
           property, including, but not limited to, roadways, parks and recreation facilities,
           police and fire protection, schools, stormwater drainage systems, water supplies,
           and wastewater and refuse collection.




Granite Construction                                                  App. # 2025-0046-MA
Zoning Map Amendment Request                   5
                                       EXHIBIT A
                                  DEPARTMENT REVIEWS

REVIEWS ARE NOT MEANT TO BE AN ALL INCLUSIVE LIST OF POSSIBLE COMMENTS OR
CONDITIONS.



Planning Division Review.

   1. Per the GIS review the deed description for the property doesn’t fully match up with
      the actual property. A corrected outer boundary description will be required to be
      submitted prior to the application being scheduled before the City Council so that, if
      approved, the ordinance will include the correct description of the area to be
      rezoned.

Engineering and Public Works Divisions Review.

   1. We have reviewed the subject zone map amendment application, proposing 0.85
       acres to be zoned from Commercial Business Park (CBP) to Manufacturing (M1) in
       accordance with the provisions of Section 9-5-060(E)(1)(e) of the Draper City
       Municipal Code (DCMC). We speak primarily to the adequacy of facilities and
       services intended to serve the subject property. In making an amendment, the City
       Council should consider the following factors. Accordingly, the following comments
       are recommended for your consideration:
          a. The adequacy of facilities and services intended to serve the subject
              property, including but not limited to roadways, parks and recreation
              facilities, police and fire protection, schools, storm water drainage systems,
              water supplies, and waste water and refuse collection; Other than noted
              below, we are not aware of any inadequacies of the facilities intended to
              serve this property.
                   i. The change in zone from Commercial Business Park (CBP) to
                       manufacturing (M1) changes the potential uses but does not
                       necessarily represent an increase in traffic based on the permitted or
                       conditional uses within the proposed zone. The proposed zone
                       permits many different uses with different densities and traffic
                       generation. Based on the size of the parcel, any potential use within
                       the proposed zone would not have a detrimental effect on the
                       surrounding streets. That being said, the fronting street, 13800 South,
                       is a minor arterial with the highest traffic capacity of the rated streets,
                       although it has not been widened to its street classification at this
                       time and functions more as a collector street. The size of the subject
                       parcel and the potential number of trips generated from a parcel of
                         this size typically would not require mitigation measures, where
                         mitigation is typically contemplated around 100 peak hour trips. Any
                         site plan or subdivision application will be required to determine the
                         traffic generation of the site and mitigate any impacts to the fronting
                         public street. There are public frontage no improvements existing on
                         the subject site, but exist on the next parcel to the east.
                   ii.   Connectivity with the subject parcel to a public right-of-way is to
                         13800 South, a minor arterial street. Access onto 13800 South is
                         limited and controlled due to its classification. Accesses are be
                         required to meet Draper City standards as outlined in our Master
                         Transportation Plan. Any development will need to evaluate access
                         due to the reduced spacing from an existing access along 13800
                         South, where the parcel frontage cannot meet current access spacing
                         requirements. Any future development will be required to meet city
                         standards. Access is evaluated at the time of a site plan or subdivision
                         application.
                  iii.   There are no existing storm drainage facilities fronting the subject
                         parcel that are feasible to connect to from the existing site. Any future
                         site drainage will be required to be addressed with any subdivision or
                         site plan application, be required to be retained onsite, and shall
                         comply with the provisions of the development requirements within
                         the Draper City Municipal Code.
                  iv.    Sanitary sewer facilities will be provided by Jordan Basin Improvement
                         District. Any subdivision or site plan application will require a
                         commitment to serve from the sewer district that facilities are
                         adequate to provide service for the proposed uses.
                   v.    Drinking water is provided by the city to the subject parcel. There are
                         no city waterlines fronting the parcel. The ability of the city to serve
                         this parcel will be dependent on the developer connecting to the
                         existing system that exists to the east of this parcel and extend the
                         city’s system, as outlined in Draper City Municipal Code 16-1. Any
                         subdivision or site plan application will require a commitment to serve
                         from the city that facilities are adequate to provide service for the
                         proposed uses.

Building Division Review.

       1.      No additional comments.



Fire Division Review.

       1.      No additional comments
GIS Division Review.

       1.      This boundary does not close and gives a misclose distance of 1.12 ft. Also,
               the Point of begining is off by 15 ft. Please review the survey for
               discrepancies.

Legal Division Review.

       1.      No additional comments
                               EXHIBIT B
              MEETS AND BOUNDS DESCRIPTION (TO BE UPDATED)

Beginning at a point South 89°37'14" West 936.25 feet and South 00°32'04" West
1795.12 feet and South 00°32'04" West 69.56 feet from the North quarter corner of
Section 1, Township 4 South, Range 1 West, Salt Lake Base and Meridian; and
running thence South 00°32'04" West 720.12 feet more or less to the North line of
13800 South Street; thence North 89°54'50" West 50 feet more or less; thence
North 00°32'04" East 679.87 feet more or Less; thence Northeasterly along a
2166.59 foot radius curve to the Right 65.56 feet (Chord Bears North 51°21'43" East
65.55 feet) to the point of beginning.
  EXHIBIT C
VICINITY MAP
 EXHIBIT D
AERIAL MAP
  EXHIBIT E
LAND USE MAP
 EXHIBIT F
ZONING MAP
       EXHIBIT G
APPLICANT QUESTIONAIRE
    EXHIBIT H
ZONE COMPARISONS
           P = Permitted, C = Conditional, NP = Not Permitted


                            Use                                     Zone                                          Uses                                       Zone
                                                                     M1                                                                                      CBP
Agricultural uses:
     Agricultural processing                           NP
     Cannabis production establishment                 P
                                                                                      Residential uses:
                                                                                           Assisted living facility                             NP
                                                                                           Dwelling, multiple- family                           NP
                                                                                           Dwelling, single- family                             NP
                                                                                           Home occupations
                                                                                           Residential facility for elderly persons             NP
                                                                                           Residential facility for persons with a disability   NP
Public and civic uses:                                                                Public and civic uses:
                                                                                           Auditorium, major                                    NP
                                                                                           Auditorium, minor                                    C
     Bus terminal                                      P
     Charter schools                                   P                                   Charter schools                                      P
     Church or place of worship                        P                                   Church or place of worship                           P
                                                                                           Club or service organization                         P
                                                                                           Cultural service                                     P
     Government service                                P                                   Government service                                   P
     Higher education facility, private                C                                   Higher education facility, private                   C
     Higher education facility, public                 P                                   Higher education facility, public                    P
                                                                                           Hospital                                             P
     Operations center                                 P
     Private school                                    C                                   Private school                                       C
     Protective service                                P                                   Protective service                                   P
     Public school                                     P                                   Public school                                        P
     Public utility substation                         See chapter 36 of this title        Public utility substation                            See chapter 36 of this title

                                                                                           Reception center                                     NP
     Trade/vocational school                           C                                   Trade/vocational school                              C
     Utility, major                                    P
     Utility, minor                                    P                                   Utility, minor                                       P
Municipal uses:                                                                       Municipal uses:
     Franchise Municipal use                           P                                   Franchise Municipal uses                             P
     Municipal use                                     P                                   Municipal uses                                       P
Commercial uses:                                                                      Commercial uses:
     Agricultural sales and service                    P
     Auto, truck, RV and equipment storage             P                                   Auto, truck, RV, and equipment storage               C
                                                                                           Bank or financial institution                        P
                                                                                           Bar establishment4                                   P
                                                                                           Bed and breakfast inns                               NP
     Business equipment rental and supplies            P                                   Business equipment rental and supplies               P
     Business service                                  P                                   Business service                                     P
                                                                                           Car wash                                             C
                                                                                           Cashing services                                     NP
     Cattery                                           P                                   Cattery                                              NP
     Commercial vehicle and equipment rental or sale   P                                   Commercial vehicle and equipment rental or sale      P
     Commercial vehicle and equipment repair           P                                   Commercial vehicle and equipment repair              P
     Construction sales and service                    P                                   Construction sales and service                       NP
     Convenience store                                 P                                   Convenience store                                    P
                                                                                           Daycare, general                                     P
                                                                                           Farmers' market                                      NP
                                                                                           Funeral home                                         P
                                                                                           Garage, public                                       P
     Gas and fuel, storage and sales                   P                                   Gas and fuel, storage and sales                      NP
     Gasoline service station                          P                                   Gasoline service station                             P
                                                                                           Grooming service                                     P
                                                                                           Hotel                                                P
     Kennel                                            P                                   Kennel                                               NP
                                                                                           Laundry and dry cleaning, limited                    P
                                                                                           Laundry service                                      P
     Low power radio services facility                 See chapter 41 of this title

     Media service                                     P                                   Media service                                        P
     Medical cannabis pharmacy                         P                                   Medical cannabis pharmacy                            P
                                                                                           Medical or dental laboratory                         P
                                                                                           Medical service                                      P
                                                                              Motel or motor lodge                                                     P
                                                                              Nursery                                                                  NP
     Office, general                      P                                   Office, general                                                          P
                                                                              Office, warehouse                                                        P
     Parking, commercial                  P                                   Parking, commercial                                                      P
     Pawnshop                             C
                                                                              Personal care service                                                    P
     Personal instruction service         P                                   Personal instruction service                                             P
                                                                              Precious metals and gems dealer                                          P
                                                                              Preschool, general                                                       P

                                                                              Printing and photocopying, limited                                       P

     Printing, general                    P                                   Printing, general                                                        P
                                                                              Recreation and entertainment, indoor                                     P
                                                                              Recreation and entertainment, outdoor                                    NP
     Recycling station                    P                                   Recycling collection station                                             P
     Repair service                       P                                   Repair service                                                           NP
                                                                              Research service                                                         P
     Restaurant, fast food                P                                   Restaurant                                                               P
     Retail, general                      P                                   Retail, general                                                          P
                                                                              Secondhand or thrift store, large, with no outside storage and no drop
                                                                              off of items during hours the business is closed
                                                                                                                                                       P
                                                                              Secondhand or thrift store, small                                        NP
     Sexually oriented business           C
     Tattoo establishment                 P                                   Tattoo establishment                                                     NP
    Transportation service                P                                  Transportation service                                                    C
    Vehicle rental                        P                                  Vehicle rental                                                            P
    Vehicle repair, general               P                                  Vehicle repair, general                                                   NP
    Vehicle repair, limited               P                                  Vehicle repair, limited                                                   C
    Vehicle sale                          P                                  Vehicle sale                                                              P
    Veterinary service                    P                                  Veterinary service                                                        NP
    Warehouse, self-service storage       P                                  Warehouse, self- service storage                                          C
    Wireless telecommunication facility   See chapter 41 of this title       Wireless telecommunication facility                                       See chapter 41 of this title

Manufacturing uses:                                                      Manufacturing uses:
    Basic industry                        NP
    Car wash                              P
    Car wash, commercial vehicles         P
    Freight terminal                      P
    Laundry services                      P
    Manufacturing, general                C
    Manufacturing, limited                P                                   Manufacturing, limited                                                   C
    Mineral extraction                    NP
    Wholesale and warehousing, general    P
    Wholesale and warehousing, limited    P                                   Wholesale and warehousing, limited                                       C
