                               Development Review Committee
                                   1020 East Pioneer Road
                                     Draper, UT 84020
                                      December 1, 2025

To:             Draper City Planning Commission
                Business Date: December 11, 2025

From:           Development Review Committee

Prepared By: Paul Geilman, Planning Coordinator
             Planning Division
             Community Development Department
             801-576-6551, paul.geilman@draperutah.gov

Re:     Butler Zoning Map Amendment Request
        Application No.: 2025-0241-MA
        Applicant:        Lannea Butler, representing Cary F. Butler and Joann Butler
        Project Location: 283 E Tanager Ln.
        Current Zoning: RA1, (Residential Agricultural, 40,000 ft2 lot minimum size)
        Acreage:          1.04 Acres (Approximately 45,302 ft2)
        Request:          Request for approval of a Zoning Map Amendment from the RA1
                          to R3 (Single-family Residential, 13,000 ft2 lot minimum size) zone
                          for the purpose of subdividing the property.




BACKGROUND AND SUMMARY
This application is a request for approval of a Zoning Map Amendment for approximately
1.04 acres located on the West side of 300 East, at approximately 283 E Tanager Ln. (Exhibit
C & D). The property is currently zoned RA1. The applicant is requesting that a Zoning Map
Amendment to R3 (Single-family Residential) be approved to allow for the property owners
to subdivide the property.



ANALYSIS
General Plan and Zoning.

 Table 1                 General Plan and Zoning Designations                     Exhibit
 Existing Land Use       Residential Medium Density                               Exhibit E



Butler                                                            App. # 2025-0241-MA
Zoning Map Amendment Request                  1
 Current Zoning          RA1                                                        Exhibit F
 Proposed Use            Single-Family Residential (no change)
 Adjacent Zoning
    East                 R3
    West                 RA1
    North                RA1
    South                RA2 (Residential Agricultural, 20,000 square ft2
                         minimum size)

The Residential Medium Density land use designation is characterized as follows:




The proposal for R3 zoning would conform to current land use designation more than the
current RA1 zoning does. To the east of 300 East is R3 zoning that would match this
proposal. To the south and north is RA1 zoning and to the South is RA2 zoning, both within
the same existing Residential Medium Density land use designation.

According to Draper City Municipal Code (DCMC) Section 9-8-020 the purpose of the R3



Butler                                                              App. # 2025-0241-MA
Zoning Map Amendment Request                    2
zone is to “permit medium density residential development without special mitigation
requirements. This zone is intended to provide incentives to foster residential development
with little impact on its surroundings and on municipal services, and to generally preserve
the semirural character called for in the density element of the general plan.”

Criteria For Approval.
A Map Amendment is a matter committed to the legislative discretion of the City Council
and is not controlled by any one standard. However, in making a recommendation to the
City Council, the Planning Commission should consider the following factors in Section 9-5-
060(E) of the DCMC:

        1. Map Amendments:
            a. Whether the proposed amendment is consistent with goals, objectives and
               policies of the city's general plan;
            b. Whether the proposed amendment is harmonious with the overall character
               of existing development in the vicinity of the subject property;
            c. Whether the proposed amendment is consistent with the standards of any
               applicable overlay zone;
            d. The extent to which the proposed amendment may adversely affect adjacent
               property; and
            e. The adequacy of facilities and services intended to serve the subject
               property, including, but not limited to, roadways, parks and recreation
               facilities, police and fire protection, schools, stormwater drainage systems,
               water supplies, and wastewater and refuse collection.


REVIEWS

Planning Division Review. The Draper City Planning Division has completed their review of
the Zoning Map Amendment submission. Comments from this division, if any, can be
found in Exhibit A.

Engineering and Public Works Divisions Review. The Draper City Engineering and Public
Works Divisions have completed their reviews of the Zoning Map Amendment submission.
Comments from these divisions, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Building Division Review. The Draper City Building Division has completed their review of
the Zoning Map Amendment submission. Comments from this division, if any, can be
found in Exhibit A.

Fire Division Review. The Draper City Fire Marshal has completed his review of the Zoning
Map Amendment submission. Comments from this division, if any, can be found in Exhibit
A.



Butler                                                           App. # 2025-0241-MA
Zoning Map Amendment Request                  3
Legal Division Review. The Draper City Attorney has completed their review of the Zoning
Map Amendment submission. Comments from this division, if any, can be found in Exhibit
A.

GIS Division Review. The Draper City GIS Division has completed their review of the Zoning
Map Amendment submission. Comments from this division, if any, can be found in Exhibit
A.

Noticing. Notice has been properly issued in the manner outlined in the City and State
Codes.



STAFF RECOMMENDATION

Staff recommends that the Planning Commission review the request, receive public
comment, and makes a decision based on the findings listed below and the criteria for
approval, or denial, as listed within the staff report.



MODEL MOTIONS
Sample Motion for Approval – I move that we forward a positive recommendation to the
City Council for the Zoning Map Amendment, as requested by Lannea Butler, application
2025-0241-MA, based on the following findings and the criteria for approval listed in the
Staff Report dated December 1, 2025.

Findings for Approval:
1.     The proposed zoning map amendment is consistent with goals, objectives, and
       policies of the city's general plan.
2.     The proposed zoning map amendment is harmonious with the overall character of
       existing development in the vicinity of the subject property.
3.     The proposed zoning map amendment is consistent with the standards of any
       applicable overlay zone.
4.     The proposed zoning map amendment will not adversely affect adjacent property.
5.     There are adequate facilities and services intended to serve the subject property,
       including, but not limited to, roadways, parks and recreation facilities, police and fire
       protection, schools, stormwater drainage systems, water supplies, and wastewater
       and refuse collection.

Sample Motion for Modified Approval – I move that we forward a positive recommendation
to the City Council for the Zoning Map Amendment, as requested by Lannea Butler,
application 2025-0241-MA, based on the findings and criteria for approval listed in the Staff




Butler                                                             App. # 2025-0241-MA
Zoning Map Amendment Request                   4
Report dated December 1, 2025, together with the following modified or additional
findings:

        1. (List any modified or additional findings …)

Sample Motion for Denial – I move that we forward a negative recommendation to the City
Council for the Zoning Map Amendment, as requested by Lannea Butler, application 2025-
0241-MA, based on the findings and criteria for denial listed in the Staff Report dated
December 1, 2025.

Findings for Denial:
1.     The proposed zoning map amendment is not consistent with goals, objectives, and
       policies of the city's general plan.
2.     The proposed zoning map amendment is not harmonious with the overall character
       of existing development in the vicinity of the subject property.
3.     The proposed zoning map amendment will adversely affect adjacent property.
4.     There are not adequate facilities and services intended to serve the subject
       property, including, but not limited to, roadways, parks and recreation facilities,
       police and fire protection, schools, stormwater drainage systems, water supplies,
       and wastewater and refuse collection.




Butler                                                         App. # 2025-0241-MA
Zoning Map Amendment Request                   5
                                     EXHIBIT A
                                DEPARTMENT REVIEWS

REVIEWS ARE NOT MEANT TO BE AN ALL INCLUSIVE LIST OF POSSIBLE COMMENTS OR
CONDITIONS.



Planning Division Review.

      1.     No additional comments.

Engineering and Public Works Divisions Review.

      1. The adequacy of facilities and services intended to serve the subject property,
         including but not limited to roadways, parks and recreation facilities, police and
         fire protection, schools, storm water drainage systems, water supplies, and
         waste water and refuse collection;
         Other than noted below, we are not aware of any inadequacies of the facilities
         intended to serve this property.

              a) The change in zone from Residential / Agricultural (RA1) to Residential
                 (R3) is proposing to change from low density residential use to a higher
                 residential density. This change in zoning represents a minor increase
                 demand on the streets and utilities. Based on the subject parcel size, the
                 proposed zone will allow the construction of up to three single
                 residential structures, tripling the existing traffic from the current
                 approximately one peak hour trip and approximate 9 vehicle trips per
                 day to the proposed density of approximately three peak-hour trips and
                 approximately 27 vehicle trips per day. The subject parcel sites on the
                 corner of Tanager Ln and 300 East. The site has existing access to
                 Tanager Ln, a local street, with capacity for typical residential
                 neighborhood traffic. 300 East, adjacent to the parcel, is a major collector
                 street with additional capacity for increased traffic volume. Based on the
                 capacity of the fronting public streets, the change in zone has the
                 potential increase traffic minimally on Tanager Ln and 300 East, but does
                 not represent a significant increase where any mitigation would be
                 required. Typically, a use where 100 peak hour trips are generated
                 triggers the need to have a traffic impact study (TIS) completed to
                 analyze mitigation requirements. The size of the subject parcel and the
                 potential number of trips generated from a parcel of this size does not
                 trigger a TIS. There are existing public frontage improvements on both
                 Tanager Ln and 300 East.
               b) Connectivity with the subject parcel is to Tanager Ln, a public right-of-
                  way. Accesses are required to meet Draper City standards as outlined in
                  our Master Transportation Plan and city code. Any development on the
                  site will need to be evaluated for access location to comply with the
                  required spacing based on the city’s access spacing requirements. Access
                  is evaluated at the time of a site plan or subdivision application.

               c) There are existing storm drainage facilities in Tanager Ln. Any future
                  change in site drainage will be required to be addressed with any
                  subdivision or site plan application and shall comply with the provisions
                  of the development requirements within the Draper City Municipal Code.

               d) Sanitary sewer facilities will be provided by Jordan Basin Improvement
                  District. Any subdivision or site plan application will require a
                  commitment to serve from the sewer district that facilities are adequate
                  to provide service for the proposed uses.

               e) Drinking water is provided by WaterPro to the subject parcel. Any
                  subdivision or site plan application will require a commitment to serve
                  from WaterPro indicating it has the required facilities that are adequate
                  to provide service for the proposed uses. This commitment is made at
                  the time of subdivision or site plan approval.

          Accordingly, we will provide comments relative to the potential construction
          activities when the appropriate application is received. Thank you for the
          opportunity to review the Zone Amendment Request.


Building Division Review.

       1. No additional comments.

Fire Division Review.

       1. No additional comments.



Legal Division Review.

       1. No additional comments.

GIS Division Review.
       1. No additional comments
                                       EXHIBIT B
                                   LEGAL DESCRIPTION

Beginning at a point on the West Line of 300 East Street, said point being 1320.0 feet East
and 806.85 feet South and South 8.58 feet to a point coincident with a corner of a fence
line and South 0˚05’37” West 624.03 feet and South 89˚48’40” East 1320.0 feet, more or
less, to a point in the center of 300 East Street and Northerly along the center of 300 East
Street 425.35 feet and North 89˚52’10” West 33.0 feet from the Northwest corner of
Section 31, Township 3 South, Range 1 East, Salt Lake Base and Meridian and running
thence North 89˚52’10” West 215.25 feet; thence South 0˚15’54” West 220.0 feet; thence
South 89˚52’54” East 248.25 feet to the center of 300 East Street; thence Northerly along
the center of 300 East Street 50.0 feet; thence North 89˚52’10” West 33.0 feet; thence
North 0˚5’37” East 170.0 feet to the beginning.

Added with this:
Beginning at the Southeast corner of the above described tract, said point being in the
center of 300 East Street, and running thence North 89˚52’54” West 248.25 feet; thence
South 0˚15’54” West 30.0 feet; thence South 89˚52’54” East 248.25 feet to the center of 300
East Street; thence Northerly along the center of 300 East Street 30.0 feet to the point of
beginning.

Without this portion:
Commencing at the North quarter corner of Section 31, Township 3 South, Range 1 East,
Salt Lake Meridian; thence South 00˚21’03” West 1014.05 feet along quarter section line;
thence North 89˚38’57” West 34.96 feet to the POINT OF BEGINNING; thence South 89˚
35’48” East 1.04 feet; thence South 00˚36’57” West 169.95 feet; thence South 89 ˚35’48”
East 33.00 feet; thence South 00˚16’22” West 50.00 feet; thence North 89˚36’32” West
43.70 feet to a point on a non-tangent curve to the left having a radius of 16.00 feet and a
chord that bears North 34˚57’57” East 18.17 feet; thence along said curve a distance of
19.32 feet; thence North 00˚21’57” East 204.99 feet to the POINT OF BEGINNING Contains
1824 square feet of 0.042 acres*, more or less
*1019 square feet or 0.023 acres more or less, is currently used for public road.
  EXHIBIT C
VICINITY MAP
 EXHIBIT D
AERIAL MAP
  EXHIBIT E
LAND USE MAP
 EXHIBIT F
ZONING MAP
      EXHIBIT G
APPLICANT’S RESPONSES
Map Amendment
283 East Tanager Lane

                            Zoning Map Amendment Questionnaire

       1.       What is the requested zoning designation?
            •   R3
       2.       Please explain the reason for the request and the justification for approval.
            •   The purpose of this subdivision request is to divide the land for family estate
                planning. Subdividing the property will allow for more efficient use of the land in
                accordance with current zoning regulations and community development goals.
                This request meets all applicable planning, zoning, and infrastructure requirements
                and will contribute positively to the local area by enhancing property tax revenue.
                All necessary services, including access, utilities, and drainage, can be provided to
                the new parcels without negatively impacting neighboring properties or public
                resources. Approval is justified as the subdivision aligns with the municipality's
                comprehensive plan and promotes orderly growth in the area.
       3.       How is the requested zoning designation harmonious with the overall
character of existing development in the vicinity of the subject property? Explain.
            •   The proposed rezoning from RA-1 to R-3 is harmonious with the overall character
                of existing development in the surrounding area, which is predominantly residential
                in nature. While RA-1 zoning supports low-density residential use, the proposed R-
                3 designation allows for a slightly higher residential density that is still consistent
                with the existing neighborhood character and land use patterns. Several nearby
                properties have similar or compatible zoning designations, and the transition to R-
                3 reflects a natural progression of residential growth in this part of the community.
                The change supports the broader goals of the city’s comprehensive plan by
                promoting responsible infill development, improving housing diversity, and
                making more efficient use of existing infrastructure and services. Importantly, the
                proposed R-3 zoning remains within the residential use category and does not
                introduce any commercial or incompatible land uses, preserving the integrity and
                residential nature of the surrounding area.




                                                  1
Map Amendment
283 East Tanager Lane

   4. Are facilities and services, such as roadways and utilities, sufficient to serve the
      property under the proposed zoning? Explain.
          •   Yes, the existing facilities and services are sufficient to support the property under
              the proposed R-3 zoning designation. The surrounding area is already developed
              with adequate infrastructure, including public roadways, water supply, sewer
              systems, and other utility services necessary for medium-density residential use.
              Access to the property is provided by existing public roads that are capable of
              handling the anticipated traffic volume associated with R-3 residential
              development. Additionally, utility providers have confirmed that water, sewer,
              electricity, and other essential services are either currently available at the site or
              can be extended without undue burden on public resources. No significant off-site
              improvements are anticipated to accommodate the proposed use, and the rezoning
              will allow for efficient use of existing infrastructure, supporting the community’s
              goals for sustainable and well-planned growth.
   5. Is the proposed zoning designation consistent with the goals, objectives, and policies
      of the City’s General Plan? Explain.
          •   Yes, the proposed R-3 zoning designation is consistent with the goals, objectives,
              and policies outlined in the City’s General Plan. The Plan encourages responsible
              residential growth, increased housing diversity, and efficient land use—particularly
              in areas already served by infrastructure and adjacent to existing development.
              Rezoning from RA-1 to R-3 supports these goals by allowing for moderate
              residential density in a location that is well-suited for such use. The General Plan
              often promotes infill development, expanded housing options, and the use of
              existing public services and roadways—objectives that are directly supported by
              this zoning request. The R-3 designation allows for housing types that can help
              meet the community’s evolving needs, while still preserving the residential
              character of the area. Overall, the proposed zoning aligns with the City’s long-term
              vision for balanced growth and sustainable land use planning.




                                                2
