MINUTES OF THE DRAPER CITY COUNCIL MEETING HELD ON TUESDAY, JUNE 17,
2025, IN THE DRAPER CITY COUNCIL CHAMBERS, 1020 EAST PIONEER ROAD, DRAPER,
UTAH

PRESENT:     Mayor Troy K. Walker, and Councilmembers Mike Green (via Zoom) Bryn
             Heather Johnson, Tasha Lowery, Fred Lowry, and Marsha Vawdrey
EXCUSED:
STAFF:       Mike Barker, City Manager; Kellie Challburg, Assistant City Manager;
             Scott Cooley, City Engineer and Public Works Director; Spencer
             DuShane, Assistant City Attorney; Rich Ferguson, Chief of Police; Jennifer
             Jastremsky, Community Development Director; Rhett Ogden, Parks and
             Recreation Director; Nicole Smedley, City Recorder; Linda Peterson,
             Communications Director; Clint Smith, Fire Chief; Jake Sorensen,
             Network Manager; Travis DeJong, Business License Official; and John
             Vuyk, Finance Director
______________________________________________________________________________________

Study Session

      Closed Session
      Councilmember Vawdrey moved to recess to a closed session to discuss the
      purchase, exchange, or lease or real property and discussion of professional
      competence as provided by UCA 52-4-205. Councilmember Johnson seconded
      the motion.

      A roll call vote was taken. The motion passed unanimously.
                                       Yes No       Absent
      Councilmember Green               X
      Councilmember Johnson             X
      Councilmember T. Lowery           X
      Councilmember F. Lowry            X
      Councilmember Vawdrey             X

      The Council reconvened in open session at 7:20 pm.

      Council/Manager Reports
      None



                                                                             1|Page
        Draper City Council DRAFT Meeting Minutes – June 17, 2025
Business Session

1.    Call to Order by Mayor Walker

2.    Pledge of Allegiance

3.    Recognition: Acknowledgment of Peer Court Graduates
      Victims Advocate, Rachel Miller described the Draper Youth Peer Court
      Program, and recognized 2024 and 2025 Peer Court graduates. She expressed
      appreciation for the participation and contributions of Lillian Hall and the Hall
      family.

4.    Oaths of Office: Police Department
      Chief of Police Rich Ferguson recognized Captain Pat Evans, Lieutenant Mat
      Coe, Lieutenant Nate Banry, Sergeant Hobie Young, Sergeant Cory Smith,
      Master Officer Colby Page, and Master Officer Alex Asay for recent promotion.
      City Recorder Nicole Smedley administered the Oaths of Office.

5.    Public Comments
      Councilmember T. Lowery expressed gratitude on behalf of the Draper
      Heights neighborhood for the Draper Fire Department and their response to
      an incident on June 15, 2025.

6.    Consent Items
      6.a  Approval of the May 20, 2025 City Council Meeting Minutes
      6.b  Approval of Resolution #25-24 authorizing the approval of an
           amendment to the second amended and restated Interlocal Agreement
           creating Trans-Jordan Cities dated December 1, 1995
      6.c  Approval of Resolution #25-33 reappointing Michelle Coker and Jocelyn
           Kessler to the Draper City Tree Committee
      6.d  Approval of Resolution #25-34 reappointing Stefania Wilks to the
           Draper City Special Event Arena Committee
      6.e  Approval of Resolution #25-35 reappointing Andrew Adams, Gary
           Ogden and Lisa Fowler to the Draper City Planning Commission
      6.f  Approval of Resolution #25-29 amending the Consolidated Fee
           Schedule of Draper City
      6.g  Approval of Resolution #25-30 approving a Cooperation Agreement
           with Metropolitan Water District of Salt Lake and Sandy and The Ridges
           at Alpine LLC for non-district use of district lands and interest in lands

                                                                             2|Page
     6.h   Approval of Resolution #25-31 approving Addendum No. 2 to the
           Cooperation Agreement with Metropolitan Water District of Salt Lake
           and Sandy

           Councilmember Vawdrey moved to approve the Consent Agenda.
           Councilmember Johnson seconded the motion.

           A roll call vote was taken. The motion passed unanimously.
                                               Yes No      Absent
           Councilmember Green                  X
           Councilmember Johnson                X
           Councilmember T. Lowery              X
           Councilmember F. Lowry               X
           Councilmember Vawdrey                X

7.   Items for Council Consideration
     7.a   Public Hearing: Ordinance #1659, a Development Agreement for 110
           acres of property located at 3235 East 15780 South in the RR-22 zone
           within Draper City, otherwise known as the Alpine Hollow Development
           Agreement
           Councilmember F. Lowry disclosed that the applicant was a friend of his,
           but stated he had no financial interest in the application.

           Community Development Director Jennifer Jastremsky said the subject
           property was located on the south end of the City boundary, next to
           both Alpine and Highland City. The undeveloped property was zoned
           RR-42 and RR-43, located in Residential Hillside Low-Density and the
           Parks and Open Space designations. The property was originally part of
           the Suncrest Master Planned Community, dating to 1999. At the time of
           the Suncrest bankruptcy, 1,369 dwelling units had been built (2,519
           unbuilt). The City purchased remaining acreage in 2011, intending to
           have open space with select pieces identified to be sold for
           development. The subject property was sold in 2017, and placed in the
           Traverse Range Conservation Easement in 2018 and 2024.

           Ms. Jastremsky explained the proposed Development Agreement would
           set the number of dwelling units at 50 and require all dwellings to be
           fire sprinklered. She stated that all lots may contain a single-family
           home, plus outbuildings such as pool houses, barns, garages, and

                                                                          3|Page
mother-in-law apartments, so long as the living area was not rented and
did not exceed 3,000 square feet in size. The mother-in-law apartments
would not be considered accessory dwelling units (ADUs). Ms.
Jastremsky said the applicant desired to eliminate side and rear public
utility easements, with ten-foot front easements, and said staff
requested a 56-foot-wide roadway for the private gated community for
emergency access, snow removal, and utilities.

Ms. Jastremsky said the applicant was requesting approval to allow
homeowners the option to select up to an eight-foot-tall fence. The
development agreement would allow for temporary chain link fencing
during construction adjacent to public open space, with permanent
wrought iron prior to occupancy. With the proposed development
agreement, the applicant requested approval for some of the side lot
lines to not be at right angles or radial to the roadway, and requested
approval for entrance fencing and walls to be up to 12 feet in height.
The proposed development agreement would grant city easement
access on private roads to three locations for open space trail
emergency and maintenance, but would not grant public access from
those locations.

Ms. Jastremsky said the Planning Commission reviewed the application
and forwarded a positive recommendation, with the following
recommendations: (1) that the trail access remains open during
construction, when safe to do so; and (2) exterior materials for all
homes be fire-resistant materials. She presented proposed language
that    would   incorporate     the   two   Planning   Commission
recommendations.

Staff answered questions about the Wildland Urban Interface (WUI)
Code and defensible space. Ms. Jastremsky said defensible space was
not discussed with the Planning Commission. Staff suggested language
referencing defensible space consistent with WUI standards could be
added (landscaping consistent with Firewise Community requirements).

David Killpack with Triumph Design Build, applicant, said they
purchased the property in April 2024, and had worked on the
development agreement with city staff. Mr. Killpack said he felt the
proposed development agreement addressed many of the needs of the

                                                              4|Page
City, especially pertaining to trail access. He said the roads would be
private, and said he believed the development would bring some
wonderful residents to Draper.

Mr. Killpack showed renderings of the planned entrance. He said the
access easement currently in place was non-exclusive, and emphasized
that emergency vehicles would have access in an emergency situation.
Mr. Killpack showed a proposed site plan and said the planned earth
bridge on the property would include a drainage culvert and a high-
pressure gas line for Dominion Energy. He said there was a considerable
amount of unbuildable open space on the property that would
contribute to the beauty.

Mr. Killpack said the development would have nineteen fire hydrants,
with five more along the access road. He said Triumph Design Build had
committed to requiring the homes to meet WUI Code standards even
though the State of Utah had not yet adopted the WUI Code.

Responding to a question from Mayor Walker, Mr. Killpack said he
would be open to adding language regarding fire resistant landscaping
measures (vegetation management plan). The Council and Mr. Killpack
discussed access to City trails, and Mr. Killpack said the developer could
provide signage that would alert trail users of upcoming trail closures.
Ms. Jastremsky confirmed requirement of a breakaway gate was
included in the Metro Water Agreement.

Mayor Walker opened a public hearing.

Mark (inaudible), Draper resident, said he lived right above the subject
property. He said fire and development had historically set maximum
units in a development with singular access at 30. He asked why Draper
would make an exception and set a precedent for 50 homes. He asked
why the singular access did not take the most direct route, detouring
into the conservation easement, instead of hugging the property line,
which would protect against unnecessary blight, save the developer
money and time, and reduce potential traffic on the first 150 feet. He
suggested the first 150 feet would likely turn into a de facto trailhead
parking lot. He suggested a 12-foot gate was not needed with so much



                                                                5|Page
distance to the homes, and suggested requiring a guarantee completion
bond.

Kim Agnew, Sandy resident, said she owned horse property at 13005
South 1300 East. Ms. Agnew said she knew it was difficult to insure
homes in the subject area, and asked if potential home buyers would
be aware of the difficulty finding insurance coverage.

Kimberly Nearon, Highland resident on Timber Ridge Lane, said she had
been told that the subject land was unbuildable because of sand. She
said she was concerned about the risk of houses sliding down the hill to
her property, and asked if the developers could give public access to
information confirming rock foundation instead of sand. Ms. Nearon
spoke of the risk of damage from flooding, and said she was not sure
the land could support the proposed weight of development. She
referenced a gas line explosion in San Bruno, California in 2010, and
expressed concern about the gas line in the area.

Carl Pew, Draper resident at 15873 Mercer Hollow Cove, said he would
be directly affected by the proposed entrance and gate, and said he had
been directly affected by a home sliding off the hill during construction
of the home next to his. He spoke of the cost to stabilize his home after
the incident, and expressed concern for disturbing the stability during
proposed construction. Mr. Pew expressed concern about potential
parking on the street from bikers using the trails, and stated parking
needed to be provided for recreational users. He referred to
landscaping renderings shown, commented that the only things that
grew out there were rabbitbrush and scrub oak, and said he would like
to see a more accurate depiction of the proposed entrance. Mr. Pew
expressed hope that there would be a generous investigation of the
destabilization of the land through the whole length. He invited Mr.
Killpack to meet with the owners of the seven homes along that road.

Brandon Neish, Highland resident, said he was concerned about the
number of concerns that had been shared. He said residents had only
had access to the proposed plans for a short time, and said the process
felt rushed. Mr. Neish emphasized importance of community input for
a project the size of the proposed development, and said he had not felt
the substantial community input shared at the Planning Commission

                                                               6|Page
meeting had an impact on the Planning Commission. He asked for
enough time for the community to digest the plan and work with the
developer. Mr. Neish said there were 100 kids using the trail at the base
of Hog Hollow multiple nights per week during mountain biking season,
and asked where the kids would bike during construction. He also spoke
of a massive elk herd that migrated through the area.

Cameron Treat, Draper resident on Mercer Hollow Cove, said practices
for mountain bike teams were scheduled in May for the June-November
season, and asked for more than one-week notice before trail closures.
He asked for screening from vehicles at night for the neighboring
residents, and asked about dark sky provisions. Mr. Treat spoke of
difficulty finding insurance as a resident in the area.

Mayor Walker closed the public hearing.

Councilmember F. Lowry asked Mr. Killpack the notice timeframe he felt
he could give for trail closure. Mr. Killpack said he believed he could give
30-day notice prior to trail closure. Councilmember F. Lowry said Draper
had put a lot of money into improving trails that were used by the entire
valley, and suggested Highland residents ask the City of Highland to
expand the parking lot in Highland for trail users. Councilmember F.
Lowry said he believed the screening requested by Mr. Treat was a fair
request. Mr. Killpack said he was sensitive to the dark sky concern, and
said some street lights were required in the subdivision by Code. Staff
said street lights were only required by Code at intersections, and said
staff had been looking at the possibility of adding to Code requirements
that lights pointed down and did not exceed specific lumens. Mr.
Killpack said he was willing for the proposed development to be a dark
sky community.

Mr. Killpack said exhaustive soil studies and geo studies had been done.
He said there had been 28 test pits on the property, studied by soils
engineers and reviewed by third-party consultants. In addition, a study
would be required of every homeowner that built on a lot.

Responding to a question from Councilmember F. Lowry regarding the
completion bond suggested during the public hearing, Mr. Killpack said
the financial partner was a family office out of Oklahoma, with very

                                                                  7|Page
      strong financials. He said he also had IFD financing. Mr. Killpack said
      bonds would be posted with Jordan Basin and Draper City for public
      improvements. Mr. Killpack said he had met many times with
      representatives of Dominion (Enbridge) Gas to ensure the culvert over
      the gas easement was wide enough so that footings would not even
      touch the gas easement.

      Councilmember T. Lowery referred to the public comment regarding
      the limit of 30 dwelling units in a development with a single access, and
      said City Code provided for exceptions with mitigating factors such as
      sprinkling systems in homes and breakaway gates.

      Councilmember Vawdrey moved to approve Ordinance #1659, adding
      proposed language regarding access to trails when safe, proposed
      language regarding use of ignition-resistant materials, reference to a
      vegetation management plan, and requiring at least 25 days’ notice
      before trail closures. Councilmember T. Lowery seconded the motion.

      A roll call vote was taken. The motion passed unanimously.
                                         Yes No      Absent
      Councilmember Green                 X
      Councilmember Johnson               X
      Councilmember T. Lowery             X
      Councilmember F. Lowry              X
      Councilmember Vawdrey               X

7.b   Public Hearing: Ordinances #1655 and #1656 amending the official
      Zoning Map from the RA1 and RA2 Zones to the RM2 Zone, amending
      the Land Use Map from Residential Low/Medium Density designation
      to Residential High-Density designation, and a Development Agreement
      to approve a density range for approximately 20 acres of land located
      at 600 East Kimballs Lane
      Community Development Director Jennifer Jastremsky showed the
      subject area on an aerial map, and said the applicant had been involved
      in meetings regarding the Kimball Junction Station Area Plan (SAP),
      which had not yet been submitted to the State. Ms. Jastremsky
      explained the proposed development agreement included a density
      range of 25-27 dwelling units per acre (500-540 units total), did not
      include a concept site plan or design standards, allowed the project area

                                                                     8|Page
to be expanded in the future if additional property was acquired, and
included a term of agreement of project buildout or December 31, 2032.
She said the proposed development agreement referenced the four
SAP objectives.

The Planning Commission reviewed the application and forwarded a
positive recommendation, requesting that the City Council do their best
to negotiate in good faith with the applicant to achieve the following:

   1. Negotiate appropriate height restrictions by considering
      neighboring properties;
   2. Consider allocating more units beyond 30 to workforce housing;
   3. Consider larger landscaping buffers and fencing than required by
      City Code;
   4. As long as property does not change, ask that 11900 South
      remain emergency-only access (if no other properties were
      acquired by the applicant on 11900 South);
   5. Consideration for more parking than required by Code.

Responding to a question from the Council, Ms. Jastremsky said the
State had not set a specific density for SAPs. State guidelines called for
transit-oriented development, leaving cities to determine appropriate
density for the different areas. However, she said she suspected the
lower the density proposed, the more likely Wasatch Front Regional
Council (WFRC) would be to not certify the SAP.

Mayor Walker commented that the State Legislature had moved closer
and closer over the last decade to preemption. He said there were
members of the State Legislature who would like to completely preempt
city land use authority. Mayor Walker said the Utah League of Cities and
Towns (ULCT), of which he was currently the President, had worked for
partnership, not preemption.

Mayor Walker said when FrontRunner came to Draper, the City zoned
the area for unlimited height and unlimited density. The developer of
the property chose to build five-story buildings. The same developer
purchased a property in a different area of Draper and proposed 70
units per acre. Mayor Walker spoke of how the Legislature came to
implement SAPs, and said he believed the current housing crisis could

                                                                9|Page
not be blamed on municipal governments considering the 190,000
entitled units in the greater Salt Lake City area that had not been built.

Mayor Walker said the proposed lower-density ownership model fit
with the current goal of the Governor to create ownership opportunity.
Mayor Walker emphasized that station area planning was out of the
Draper City Council’s control.

Steve Maddox, applicant and Draper resident, said he had received
phone calls from State representatives telling him the property should
be higher-density apartments. He said the individual who had owned
the property for a long time appreciated agriculture and open space,
and Mr. Maddox paid tribute to the owner and what the sanctuary had
brought to the community. Mr. Maddox listed four factions in the
situation: the long-time property owner, the State, the City, and
residents. He said he would like to have more time to be able to lay out
a development, but had a narrowing window to move forward with the
project in the way he desired. Mr. Maddox emphasized that he wanted
to work with the City and community. He spoke of the planned
workforce housing element of the proposed project.

Mayor Walker opened a public hearing.

Jeff Hansen, Draper resident, said he lived about a block away from the
proposed development. Mr. Hansen read aloud from City Code
regarding the RM2 Zone, and expressed the opinion that nothing about
the proposed development was appropriately buffered from the
neighboring one-acre lots. He commented that there were many
examples of appropriate buffering in Texas. Mr. Hansen said he loved
his home and wanted to keep it that way, and said he did not
understand the rush to move forward with developing the property. He
expressed the opinion that a solution to traffic problems was needed,
and stated he did not want his tax dollars used to fund $30,000 per unit
in the proposed development.

Lisa Austin, Draper resident, said her residential property directly
backed up to Kimballs Lane. She asked the City to consider needs of the
area with the substantially increased traffic, and pointed out the
proposed development would not be within walking distance of a

                                                               10 | P a g e
public elementary school. Ms. Austin stated Draper residents did not
like to ride Trax because it was not clean or safe, and was too far from
any stops that would make using Trax useful. She said people would
continue to use their cars, and traffic would be out of control. Ms.
Austin expressed the opinion that $400,000 per unit was not
“affordable housing”, and said she did not think 30 units with the
subsidizing incentive was enough. She said she was disappointed with
the builder chosen for the project, and spoke of the lack of green space
in the neighborhood.

Shannah Austin, Draper resident, said she agreed with the previous
comment that $400,000 was not affordable housing. She said she felt
deflated from the Mayor’s comments. Ms. Austin asked that the things
residents voted for in the recent survey about Kimballs Lane be taken
into consideration.

Joe Colosimo with the neighboring Juan Diego Catholic High School said
his first choices would be to leave the property vacant or have it
donated to the school. He said he had met with the developer, who had
incorporated some of the things asked. Mr. Colosimo said the school
would like density at 25-27 units per acre, building heights less than 60
feet, housing a minimum of 50 feet off the common property line, and
ownership instead of rentals. He said he liked the opportunity for
teachers to purchase and stay in the neighborhood. Mr. Colosimo
spoke of plans to build an indoor facility between the school’s baseball
field and the subject property, and expressed a desire for a single fence
on the property line. Mr. Colosimo said the school owned a piece of
property that fronted 11800 South, and requested the developer stub
a street into the property. He said the school was excited about the
potential for more students with the proposed project.

Justin Haley, Draper resident near the subject property, said it was a
seller’s market and more homes were not needed. He spoke of
potential traffic problems with the proposed development, and said it
would be nice to have more planning. Mr. Haley said he would like the
property to remain as it was.

Kathryn Murray, Draper resident, said the proposed development was
being forced on the residents. She expressed the opinion that the

                                                               11 | P a g e
proposed development was excessive, unreasonable, and entirely
inappropriate for the space. Ms. Murray said the area could not support
the proposed number of additional residents, said the roads were
already overwhelmed, and asked if a traffic capacity study had been
done. Ms. Murray said school classrooms were becoming more and
more overwhelmed, and said higher-density housing like what was
proposed drove down property values. Ms. Murray asked if potential
home buyers would be notified and made aware of the nature of the
neighboring working farm. She said she was not anti-growth, but
demanded responsible growth.

Mayor Walker closed the public hearing.

Councilmember Vawdrey asked Mr. Maddox if the proposed plans
involved changing the existing waterway. Mr. Maddox said he had been
made aware of wildlife in the area, and said the plan was to clean up
the waterway area and create more accessibility. A portion of the
waterway may be covered at the request of the canal company for
safety. He said efforts would be made to preserve existing wooded
areas and incorporate them into green space.

Councilmember T. Lowery asked about buffer zones, commenting that
buffering was of great concern to neighboring residents. Mr. Maddox
spoke of the guardrail provided by SAP requirements, and said the
developer would have the opportunity to create areas of buffering. Mr.
Maddox said UDOT was heavily involved with the State and the City in
trying to figure out traffic problems. He suggested the proposed project
would provide an opportunity to show the State what improvements
were needed to 700 East, which was not controlled by Draper City.

Responding to a question from Councilmember T. Lowery, Mr. Maddox
said the proposed townhomes would have two car garages and parking
for two vehicles in the driveways, providing four off-street parking spots
per unit.

Councilmember F. Lowry said he had loved the farm and garden on
Kimballs Lane, and would love for the land to stay the same. However,
he said the City had a deadline to submit the SAP very soon. He said
the proposed plan would cap the density, and if the City chose not to

                                                                12 | P a g e
submit a SAP, Draper would be penalized by a daily fine and withdrawal
of State funding.

Councilmember Johnson thanked Mr. Maddox for listening to the City
and residents and working with them as best he could. Councilmember
Green commented that without the proposed development, the City
would end up with 50 units per acre on the property with the State
mandate. Councilmember Green said he did not love the proposed
plan, but without moving forward, he knew the City would have
something significantly worse.

Mayor Walker spoke of development on the Fitzgerald property and
other parcels in the area. Referring to the public comment that
residents did not like to take Trax, Mayor Walker said there were three
Trax stops in Draper, and one of the goals of the SAPs was to increase
use of public transit. Mayor Walker explained that the City portion of
subsidized workforce housing came from Community Development
Block Grants (CDBG) – money the City would have to give back to Salt
Lake County if not used for such a purpose. He said the proposed
development could not wait because the SAPs had to be submitted by
October.

Mayor Walker commended the developer for not walking away after
the tragedy of a home sliding down the hill in a previous development,
and for putting $28 million into cleaning up homes after the tragedy.

Councilmember F. Lowry moved to approve Ordinances #1655 and
#1656. Councilmember Johnson seconded the motion.

Councilmember F. Lowry thanked those in attendance for attending and
staying at the meeting, and assured them they had been heard.

A roll call vote was taken. The motion passed unanimously.
                                    Yes No      Absent
Councilmember Green                  X
Councilmember Johnson                X
Councilmember T. Lowery              X
Councilmember F. Lowry               X
Councilmember Vawdrey                X

                                                             13 | P a g e
Mayor Walker adjourned the meeting for a five-minute break.

7.c   Public Hearing: Providing Local Consent for a Bar Establishment
      License for Pine Partners LLC dba The Pines
      Business License Official Travis DeJong presented the request for local
      consent for a Bar Establishment License, and said the application met
      all distance requirements. He said granting local consent to The Pines
      would bring the total number of bar establishments in Draper City to
      eight, which was the total number currently allowed under City Code.

      Responding to a question from the Council, Ms. Jastremsky said
      proximity calculations were based on pedestrian travel.

      Mayor Walker opened a public hearing.

      Michael Chacon, Riverton resident, said he too had an application for an
      alcohol license submitted to the City. He expressed the opinion that
      both applications should be reviewed prior to the Council vote so they
      could judge which application would provide the better fit for Draper
      City. Mr. Chacon said he had done everything Draper had asked in the
      last few years. He said his application was for an establishment that
      would bring in nearly $3 million in food sales and $6.5 million in revenue
      per year.

      Mayor Walker closed the public hearing.

      Responding to a question from Councilmember T. Lowery, Mr. DeJong
      said the establishment under consideration had changed ownership,
      and said it was his understanding that a bar would be added. Gregory
      Castro, Applicant, said the existing restaurant would remain, and
      another bar establishment would be added within the existing facility.
      Mr. Castro explained that a Full-Service Restaurant License required
      70% food sales and 30% alcohol sales, and restricted how alcohol sales
      could be administered. He commented that the facility was a 147-year-
      old fixture in the community.

      Councilmember T. Lowery said she believed the property already had a
      parking problem, and expressed concern with the proposal to host
      wedding events. Mr. Castro said the parking had been unmanaged in

                                                                     14 | P a g e
      the past. He described plans to add an on-site valet service and engage
      a car service to provide free transportation to guests within 15 minutes
      of the venue. Mr. Castro said it was not the intention to use parking at
      Draper City Park. Ms. Jastremsky said parking lot improvements could
      be done with an amended site plan at the staff level.

      Staff said applications to the City were considered in the order
      submitted. The application under consideration was submitted quite
      some time before the application mentioned during the public hearing.
      Staff answered questions about different types of permits available,
      explaining that a full-service restaurant was limited to only four special
      event permits per year.

      Councilmember Green said he did not like that the location was so close
      to the City Park and Library. He said he did not like the parking situation,
      and was not comfortable with the application.

      Councilmember T. Lowery moved to deny local consent for The Pines.
      Councilmember Johnson seconded the motion.

      Councilmember Johnson said she agreed with the concerns expressed
      by Councilmember Green. Councilmember T. Lowery said she remained
      unsure whether the application involved the correct license or the
      correct venue for a reception center.

      A roll call vote was taken. The motion passed unanimously.
                                          Yes No     Absent
      Councilmember Green                  X
      Councilmember Johnson                X
      Councilmember T. Lowery              X
      Councilmember F. Lowry               X
      Councilmember Vawdrey                X

7.d   Public Hearing: Ordinance #1657 Municipal Water Rates, adjusting the
      municipal water rates for customers serviced by Draper City
      Finance Director John Vuyk explained the proposal for a 15% increase
      to the base water rate, and 8% increase to the variable water rate to
      bring the Water Fund to a positive operating balance.



                                                                       15 | P a g e
      Mayor Walker opened a public hearing, and closed the public hearing
      seeing no one come forward.

      Councilmember Vawdrey moved to approve Ordinance #1657.
      Councilmember Johnson seconded the motion.

      A roll call vote was taken. The motion passed unanimously.
                                         Yes No      Absent
      Councilmember Green                 X
      Councilmember Johnson               X
      Councilmember T. Lowery             X
      Councilmember F. Lowry              X
      Councilmember Vawdrey               X

7.e   Public Hearing: Statutory Officer Compensation associated with the
      FY2026 Tentative Budget
      Finance Director John Vuyk showed a proposed cost of living adjustment
      (COLA)/merit increase for statutory officers of 4.25% for FY2026.

      Mayor Walker opened a public hearing, and closed the public hearing
      seeing no one come forward. Staff said formal approval was on the
      agenda for later in the meeting.

7.f   Public Hearing: Executive Municipal Officer Compensation associated
      with the FY2026 Tentative Budget
      Mr. Vuyk presented Executive Municipal Officer Compensation for
      FY2026.

      Mayor Walker opened a public hearing, and closed the public
      hearing seeing no one come forward.

7.g   Public Hearing: Resolution #25-28 amending the adopted budget of
      Draper City for Fiscal Year 2024-2025
      Mr. Vuyk presented proposed amendments to the FY2025 Budget, and
      answered questions from the Council.

      Mayor Walker opened a public hearing, and closed the public hearing
      seeing no one come forward.



                                                                   16 | P a g e
           Councilmember Vawdrey moved to adopt               Resolution   #25-28.
           Councilmember Johnson seconded the motion.

           A roll call vote was taken. The motion passed unanimously.
                                              Yes No      Absent
           Councilmember Green                 X
           Councilmember Johnson               X
           Councilmember T. Lowery             X
           Councilmember F. Lowry              X
           Councilmember Vawdrey               X

8.   Action Items
     8.a   Ordinance #1658 adopting the compensation schedule for statutory
           employees for fiscal year 2025-2026

           Councilmember Vawdrey made a motion to adopt Ordinance #1658.
           Councilmember F. Lowry seconded the motion.

           A roll call vote was taken. The motion passed unanimously.
                                              Yes No      Absent
           Councilmember Green                 X
           Councilmember Johnson               X
           Councilmember T. Lowery             X
           Councilmember F. Lowry              X
           Councilmember Vawdrey               X

     8.b   Resolution #25-26, a resolution of the Draper City Council acting as the
           governing body of the Traverse Ridge Special Service District adopting
           and certifying a tax rate for the 2026 taxable year
           Mr. Vuyk presented the proposed tax rate for the Traverse Ridge Special
           Service District for the 2026 taxable year (0.000662).

           Councilmember F. Lowry moved to approve Resolution #25-26.
           Councilmember Johnson seconded the motion.

           A roll call vote was taken. The motion passed unanimously.
                                              Yes No      Absent
           Councilmember Green                 X
           Councilmember Johnson               X

                                                                         17 | P a g e
      Councilmember T. Lowery             X
      Councilmember F. Lowry              X
      Councilmember Vawdrey               X

8.c   Ordinance #1654 amending Title 6-6 of the Draper City Municipal Code
      pertaining to fire prevention
      Mr. DeJong explained proposed amendments to the City Code
      pertaining to fire prevention. He stated that the old firework restrictions
      map would be removed, and the Council would adopt a new firework
      restrictions map by ordinance.

      Councilmember Johnson made a motion to approve Ordinance #1654.
      Councilmember Vawdrey seconded the motion.

      A roll call vote was taken. The motion passed unanimously.
                                         Yes No      Absent
      Councilmember Green                 X
      Councilmember Johnson               X
      Councilmember T. Lowery             X
      Councilmember F. Lowry              X
      Councilmember Vawdrey               X

8.d   Resolution #25-25 or Resolution #25-32 adopting the Budget, Staffing
      Document and Compensation Schedule for fiscal year 2025-2026
      Mr. Vuyk explained proposed changes to the FY2026 Tentative Budget
      since the last review by the Council. He said Resolution #25-25 would
      adopt the certified tax rate provided by the County, and Resolution #25-
      32 would adopt the current rate.

      Councilmember F. Lowry made a motion to approve Resolution #25-32,
      adopting the City of Draper Acting Budget for the time period of July 1,
      2025 through June 30, 2026, with changes noted by staff.
      Councilmember T. Lowery seconded the motion.

      A roll call vote was taken. The motion passed unanimously.
                                         Yes No      Absent
      Councilmember Green                 X
      Councilmember Johnson               X
      Councilmember T. Lowery             X

                                                                      18 | P a g e
            Councilmember F. Lowry            X
            Councilmember Vawdrey             X

      8.e   Resolution #25-27 adopting the 2025 Fraud Risk Assessment for the City
            of Draper
            Mr. Vuyk presented 2025 Fraud Risk Assessment results and reported a
            score of 355 out of 395.

            Councilmember Vawdrey made a motion to adopt Resolution #25-27.
            Councilmember T. Lowery seconded the motion.

            A roll call vote was taken. The motion passed unanimously.
                                               Yes No      Absent
            Councilmember Green                 X
            Councilmember Johnson               X
            Councilmember T. Lowery             X
            Councilmember F. Lowry              X
            Councilmember Vawdrey               X

9.    Recess to a Draper City Community Reinvestment Agency Meeting

      Councilmember Vawdrey moved to recess to a meeting of the Community
      Reinvestment Agency with intention to return to regular Council meeting.
      Councilmember T. Lowery seconded the motion, which passed by unanimous
      vote (5-0).

      The City Council recessed to the Community Reinvestment Agency meeting at
      10:58 p.m. and reconvened the regular meeting at 11:00 p.m.

10.   Adjournment
      Councilmember Green moved to adjourn the meeting. Councilmember F.
      Lowry seconded the motion, which passed by unanimous vote (5-0).

      The meeting adjourned at 11:02 p.m.




                                                                         19 | P a g e
