MEMO
To: Planning Commission
From: Todd A. Draper, AICP
Date: 2025-04-24
Re: Public Hearing: Granite Construction Zoning Map Amendment Request (Legislative
Item)


Comments:

This application is a request for approval of a Zoning Map Amendment for approximately
0.85 acres located on the north side of 13800 S. and south of the Bangerter Highway, at
approximately 13488 S. 200 W. The property is currently zoned CBP
(Business/Manufacturing Park). The applicant is requesting a zone change to the M1(Light
Manufacturing) zone be approved to allow for the currently vacant property to be
developed with two other adjacent parcels into a construction sales and service yard.



Findings for Approval:

  1. The proposed zoning map amendment is consistent with goals, objectives, and
     policies of the city's general plan.
  2. The proposed zoning map amendment is harmonious with the overall character of
     existing development in the vicinity of the subject property.
  3. The proposed zoning map amendment is consistent with the standards of any
     applicable overlay zone.
  4. The proposed zoning map amendment will not adversely affect adjacent property.
  5. There are adequate facilities and services intended to serve the subject property,
     including, but not limited to, roadways, parks and recreation facilities, police and fire
     protection, schools, stormwater drainage systems, water supplies, and wastewater
     and refuse collection.



Findings for Denial:

  1. The proposed zoning map amendment is not consistent with goals, objectives, and
     policies of the city's general plan.
  2. The proposed zoning map amendment is not harmonious with the overall character
     of existing development in the vicinity of the subject property.
  3. The proposed zoning map amendment will adversely affect adjacent property.
  4. There are not adequate facilities and services intended to serve the subject
     property, including, but not limited to, roadways, parks and recreation facilities,
     police and fire protection, schools, stormwater drainage systems, water supplies,
     and wastewater and refuse collection.




ATTACHMENTS:

2025-0046-MA Staff Report - Final.pdf
