MEMO
To: City Council
From: Mike Barker
Date: 2025-10-21
Re: Consideration of Resolution #25-53


Comments:

The City is eligible for an appropriation of state funds in the amount of $3,450,000 (“State
Funds”) pursuant to Utah Code § 72-2-121(4)(k)(v), for improvements to Bangerter
Highway between 13800 South and I-15, subject to revenue availability after distributions
under § 72-2-121(4)(j), and anticipates receiving such funds upon completion of the
Improvements contemplated in this Agreement. In the interim, the City has equivalent
funds available to advance the System Improvements, with the intention of replenishing
its general fund upon receipt of State Funds.

The City anticipates the real property located at 13782 South 300 East in Draper, Utah
(“Property”) will be developed into a commercial shopping center (“Development”). The
Development will generate additional traffic impacts on surrounding public roads,
including 13800 South, Bangerter Parkway, and 150 East, necessitating certain
infrastructure improvements attributable to the Development (“Project Improvements”),
which would ordinarily be the Developer’s responsibility to fund and construct.

In the ordinary course of business, the City would publicly bid the System Improvements
and select the lowest responsible bidder. However, the Parties agree that it would be
more efficient for the Developer to engage a contractor to construct both the Project
Improvements and the System Improvements concurrently as part of the Development,
with the City reimbursing the Developer solely for the actual costs of the System
Improvements. This coordinated approach allows the Parties to share the costs of their
respective obligations in a manner that benefits the public and enhances the appearance,
function, and long-term durability of the improvements.

Typically, developers are solely responsible for funding all Project Improvements that are
necessary for their proposed development, unless such improvements are necessary to
mitigate an existing deficiency. In this Agreement, as an exception to standard practice
and as a benefit to the Developer and the City, the City may, at its sole discretion,
reimburse certain costs of Project Improvements, but only if excess State Funds remain
after full reimbursement of Actual System Costs, as detailed in Section 2 of the
Agreement.
The parties believe that coordinating the Project Improvements and System
Improvements in this manner will benefit the City, its residents, and the public by
minimizing disruptions, accelerating completion, reducing overall costs, improving
quality, and enhancing the appearance, function, and long-term life of the project.




ATTACHMENTS:

PARTIALLY SIGNED Reimbursement Agreement.pdf
ATTACHMENTS:

Resolution 25-53 Lloyd Reimbursement Agreement.pdf
