                                  Development Review Committee
                                      1020 East Pioneer Road
                                        Draper, UT 84020
                                          January 24, 2025

To:              Draper City Planning Commission
                 Business Date: February 13, 2025

From:            Development Review Committee

Prepared By: Nick Whittaker, MCMP, Planner II
             Planning Division
             Community Development Department
             801-576-6522, nick.whittaker@draperutah.gov

Re:     New Union LLC. – Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit Request
        Application No.: 2024-0389-USE
        Applicant:        Quinn Edwards, representing New Union, LLC.
        Project Location: 12785 S 1300 E
        Current Zoning: RA1 (Residential Agricultural, 40,000 ft² min. lot size),
                          R3 (Residential, 15,000 ft² min. lot size)
        Acreage:          0.72 Acres (Approximately 31,363 ft2)
        Request:          Request for approval of a Home Occupation Conditional Use
                          Permit in the RA1 zone to operate a home-based business office
                          that sells and ships art prints to private buyers.



BACKGROUND AND SUMMARY
This application is a request for approval of a Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit for
approximately 0.72 acres located on the east side of 1300 E. at 12785 S 1300 E (Exhibits B &
C). The property is currently split zoned RA1 and R3 . The applicant is requesting that a
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit be approved for a home office to allow for
customers to come to the home.

Historically there have been two single-family residential dwelling structures on the
property. One built in 1907 and another built in 1977. Both pre-date the incorporation of
the city. The property owner lives in the single-family residential dwelling built in 1977 and
will operate the home occupation from that structure.




New Union, LLC                                                     App. # 2024-0389-USE
Home Occupation Conditional Use Request          1
ANALYSIS

General Plan and Zoning.

 Table 1                   General Plan and Zoning Designations                   Exhibit
 Existing Land Use         Residential Low-Medium Density, Residential Medium     Exhibit D
                           Density
 Current Zoning            RA1, R3                                                Exhibit E
 Adjacent Zoning
    East                   R3
    West                   RA1
    North                  RA1, R3
    South                  RA1

The Residential Low-Medium Density land use designation is characterized as follows:




New Union, LLC                                                    App. # 2024-0389-USE
Home Occupation Conditional Use Request         2
The Residential Medium Density land use designation is characterized as follows:




According to Draper City Municipal Code (DCMC) Section 9-8-020 the purpose of the RA1
zone is to, “foster low density development with little impact on its surroundings and
municipal services; to generally preserve the character of the City’s semi-rural areas; and to
promote and preserve conditions favorable to large-lot family life, including the keeping of
limited numbers of animals and fowl. The predominant use in these zones is intended to
be detached single-family dwellings, protected from encroachment by commercial and
industrial uses.”

According to Draper City Municipal Code (DCMC) Section 9-8-020 the purpose of the R3
zone is to, “permit medium density residential development without special mitigation
requirements. This zone is intended to provide incentives to foster residential development
with little impact on its surroundings and on municipal services, and to generally preserve
the semirural character called for in the density element of the general plan.”

Home Occupation. The DCMC Section 9-34-040 outlines development standards applicable
to all home occupations. Those criteria, along with information specific to the subject
request, are as follows:




New Union, LLC                                                     App. # 2024-0389-USE
Home Occupation Conditional Use Request       3
        A. Ownership: The home occupation shall be owned and operated by a person who
             resides in the dwelling where the home occupation is located. Such person shall
             be the primary provider of the labor, work, or service provided in the home
             occupation.

                 •   The applicant has indicated that they own and operate the home
                     occupation and live in the residence where the home occupation is
                     primarily located (Exhibit H).

        B. Business License: A business license for the home occupation shall be obtained
             from and continually maintained with the city pursuant to title 6, chapter 11 of
             this code.

                 •   The applicant has submitted a license application to Draper City Business
                     Licensing that is in part pending approval of this Conditional Use Permit.

        C. Employees: Members of the family of the owner who reside in the dwelling may
             be employed in the home occupation. Nonfamily or nonresident employees
             shall be limited to one person.

                 •   The applicant indicates that there are no additional employees other than
                     the applicant (Exhibit H).

        D. Inspection: All facilities shall comply with fire, building, plumbing, electrical and
             all other city, county, state and federal codes. Inspections during reasonable
             hours by city officials may occur as necessary to assure compliance with
             regulations.

                 •   The applicant has indicated that they are actively working on obtaining
                     required inspections as part of the current business license review.
                     (Exhibit H).

        E. Inventory: No stock in trade, inventory, or other merchandise to exceed two
             hundred fifty (250) square feet shall be kept on the premises. No outside storage
             is allowed.

                 •   The applicant has indicated that they utilize less than 250 ft2 of storage
                     area for merchandise stored on the premises (Exhibits G & H).

                 •   The applicant has indicated that no inventory is stored outside (Exhibits G
                     & H).




New Union, LLC                                                        App. # 2024-0389-USE
Home Occupation Conditional Use Request           4
        F. Modification Of Structures Or Yards: There shall be no visible evidence from the
             exterior of a dwelling that it is being used for any other purpose than that of a
             dwelling. No activities shall be carried on outside the dwelling in the yard for the
             benefit of or incidental to the home occupation. No front yard area shall be
             altered to provide parking required for a home occupation.

                 •   The applicant has indicated that no changes will be made to the exterior
                     of the residential dwellings or yard areas (Exhibit H).

        G. Nuisance: Tools, items, equipment, or activities conducted within the dwelling
             which is offensive or noxious by reason of the emission of odor, smoke, gas,
             vibration, magnetic interference, or noise shall be prohibited.

                 •   Operation of the home-based business does not create any of the
                     described nuisances.

        H. Secondary Use: The home occupation shall be clearly incidental and secondary
             to the primary use of the dwelling for residential purposes. The home
             occupation shall not disrupt the normal residential character of the
             neighborhood in which the residence is located. Not more than twenty five
             percent (25%) of the dwelling unit shall be used for the home occupation.

                 •   The applicant has indicated that the home occupation is secondary to the
                     primary residential use of the property (Exhibit H)

                 •   The applicant has provided floor plans which include calculations
                     showing that only 7.4% of the single-family dwelling unit in which they
                     reside is used for business purposes (Exhibits G & H).

        I.   Signs: All signage in a residential area must comply with chapter 26, "Signs", of
             this title.

                 •   The applicant has indicated that they will not have signs for the business
                     on the property (Exhibit H).

        J.   Traffic, Parking, And Access: No home occupation use shall generate pedestrian,
             parking, or vehicular traffic in excess of that customarily associated with the
             zone in which the use is located. All parking shall be provided and maintained on
             site with adequate provision for drop off traffic.

                 •   The applicant has indicated on the submitted site plan and in their
                     submitted statements that off-street parking is available for customers
                     coming to the property (Exhibits F & H).



New Union, LLC                                                        App. # 2024-0389-USE
Home Occupation Conditional Use Request          5
        K. Vehicles: Other than the business owner's personal transportation, there shall
             be no vehicles or equipment on the property associated with the home
             occupation which would not normally be found at a residence. No signage for
             the home occupation shall be allowed on vehicles.

                 •   There are no vehicles or equipment associated with the business that are
                     stored at the property (Exhibit H).

        L. Yards: Yards surrounding the dwelling and accessory buildings shall not be used
             for any activities or storage of any materials associated with the home
             occupation.

                 •   The applicant has indicated that yard areas will not be used for any
                     business activities with the exception of the designated parking area for
                     customers that come to the property (Exhibit H).

        M. Customers: No customers allowed. Children accessing a limited daycare or
           limited preschool facility shall not be considered customers.

                 •   The applicant has indicated that they are seeking the conditional use
                     permit approval to allow for occasional customers to come to the
                     property with the following measures in place to mitigate potential
                     negative impacts (Exhibit H):

                          •   Majority of sales are conducted completely online.
                          •   All customer visits will be scheduled online and in advance.
                          •   Only one (1) customer shall be scheduled at a time.
                          •   The customer shall use the provided off-street parking at the time
                              of the scheduled visit.

        N. Utility Demand: The home occupation shall not cause a demand for public
             utilities in excess of that necessarily and customarily provided for residential
             uses.

                 •   The applicant indicates that no additional utility demands will be needed
                     or created by the home occupation (Exhibit H).

        O. Main Structure: The home occupations shall be conducted, located, and
           contained within the primary structure on the property.




New Union, LLC                                                        App. # 2024-0389-USE
Home Occupation Conditional Use Request           6
                 •   The applicant indicated in their statements that the home occupation is
                     primarily operated from within the residential dwelling in which they
                     reside (Exhibits G & H).

        P. Single-Family And Multiple-Family Dwellings: Home occupations listed as
             permitted or conditional within this title may be permitted in a single-family or a
             multiple-family dwelling, subject to the standards found within this section and
             section 9-34-060 of this chapter. Businesses within multiple-family dwellings
             shall provide an approval letter from the respective homeowners' association, or
             management company in the case of apartments, if the business proposes any
             employees, customers or business vehicles.

                 •   The business is not be located within a multiple-family dwelling therefore
                     an approval letter is not required.

        Q. Licensure: Any home occupation involving childcare shall comply with all
             applicable state and local laws and regulations regarding residential childcare,
             including, but not limited to, provisions of the Utah child care licensing act, as set
             forth in Utah Code Annotated section 26-39-101 et seq., as amended, and the
             residential certificate childcare standards as set forth in the Utah administrative
             code section R430-50-1 et seq., as amended. In addition, cottage food
             production operations are regulated and inspected by the Utah department of
             agriculture. Any food related home occupation under their jurisdiction must
             comply with these regulations.

                 •   The business is not involved in childcare or food production operations.



Staff has reviewed the applicants request and their supporting documents which were
submitted with the application and included as exhibits in this report. The applicant’s
business buys and sells art prints and business operations are primarily conducted online.
Art prints are stored at the property until they are sold. When a customer makes their
online purchase, the applicant ships the art print to the buyer. The applicant does not
create or manufacture art prints at the property. The business operates primarily from
within a 144 ft2 bedroom found in the single-family residential dwelling that is
approximately 1,930 ft2 in overall size. (Exhibits G & H).

In addition, the applicant may on occasion have private art viewings within the home in the
same room where the business operates. Viewings are scheduled only when customers
request an in person viewing prior to finalizing their purchase and in such cases, the
applicant is requesting that customers be allowed at the property by appointment only.
(Exhibits F, G & H). Regarding the proposed appointments, the applicant made no mention
of business hours or what time of day in person viewings will be held, but the applicant did



New Union, LLC                                                         App. # 2024-0389-USE
Home Occupation Conditional Use Request          7
mention that in person viewings will be limited to one customer at a time and that an off-
street parking stall will be provided for the customer (Exhibits F & H). Staff also notes that
the applicant indicates that in person viewings are requested by buyers only about four (4)
times per month as the majority of the buyers reside out of state. (Exhibit H).

Staff notes that deviations from the Home Occupation permitted use standards found in
DCMC Section 9-34-040 can be approved as a conditional use per DCMC Section 9-31-060.

Criteria For Approval.

The criteria for review and potential approval of a conditional use permit request is found
in Section 9-5-080(E) of the DCMC. This section depicts the standard of review for such
requests as:

        E. Approval Standards: The standards of this subsection shall apply to the issuance
            of a conditional use permit:
         1. A conditional use permit may be issued for a use to be located within a zone
            where the particular conditional use is allowed by the use regulations of the
            zone.
         2. Reasonable conditions may be imposed as necessary to substantially mitigate
            reasonably anticipated detrimental effects of the proposed use. These
            conditions may include conditions concerning use, construction, character,
            location, landscaping, screening, parking, hours of operation, and other matters
            relating to the purposes and objectives of this section. Such conditions shall be
            expressly set forth in the motion authorizing the conditional use permit.
         3. If the reasonably anticipated detrimental effects of a proposed conditional use
            cannot be substantially mitigated by the imposition of reasonable conditions to
            achieve compliance with applicable standards, the conditional use may be
            denied.
         4. The following factors shall be reviewed and considered in determining whether a
            conditional use permit application should be approved, approved with
            conditions, or denied because reasonable conditions cannot be imposed to
            achieve compliance with applicable standards:
              a. The harmony and compliance of the proposed use with the objectives and
                 requirements of the city's general plan and this title;
              b. The suitability of the specific property for the proposed use;
              c. Whether the proposed use or facility may be injurious to potential or existing
                 development in the vicinity;
              d. The economic impact of the proposed facility or use on the surrounding
                 area;
              e. The aesthetic impact of the proposed facility or use on the surrounding area;
              f. The safeguards proposed or provided to ensure adequate utilities,
                 transportation access, drainage, parking, loading space, lighting, screening,



New Union, LLC                                                     App. # 2024-0389-USE
Home Occupation Conditional Use Request        8
                 landscaping, open space, fire protection, and pedestrian and vehicular
                 circulation;
              g. The safeguards provided or proposed to prevent noxious or offensive
                 emissions such as noise, glare, dust, pollutants and odor from the proposed
                 facility or use; and
              h. The impact of the proposed facility or use on the health, safety, and welfare
                 of the city, the area, and persons owning or leasing property in the area.
          5. The planning commission may request additional information as may be
             reasonably needed to determine whether the requirements of this subsection E
             can be met.

Staff has reviewed the application according to the conditional use standards found in
Section 9-5-080(E) of the DCMC. Staff believes that that the conditions proposed by the
applicant to address impacts from customers coming to the home are sufficient to mitigate
the reasonably anticipated detrimental effects of that portion of the proposed use. Staff
has included recommended conditions of approval similar to these within the staff
recommendations section of this report.



REVIEWS

Planning Division Review. The Draper City Planning Division has completed their review of
the Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit Request submission. Comments from this
division, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Engineering and Public Works Divisions Review. The Draper City Engineering and Public
Works Divisions have completed their reviews of the Home Occupation Conditional Use
Permit Request submission. Comments from these divisions, if any, can be found in Exhibit
A.

Building Division Review. The Draper City Building Division has completed their review of
the Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit Request submission. Comments from this
division, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Fire Division Review. The Draper City Fire Marshal has completed his review of the Home
Occupation Conditional Use Permit Request submission. Comments from this division, if
any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Noticing. Notice has been properly issued in the manner outlined in the City and State
Codes.



STAFF RECOMMENDATION



New Union, LLC                                                      App. # 2024-0389-USE
Home Occupation Conditional Use Request        9
Staff recommends that the Planning Commission review the request based on the findings
listed below and the criteria for approval, or denial as listed within the staff report. The
Planning Commission should also review the request, hear from the applicant, and receive
public comment prior to making a decision.

If the Planning Commission decides to approve the request, staff recommends they include
the following conditions of approval:

        1.       That all requirements of the Draper City Engineering, Public Works, Building,
                 Planning, and Fire Divisions are satisfied.
        2.       That a Draper City business license shall be obtained and maintained by the
                 business owner for as long as the business remains in operation.
        3.       That all customer appointments shall be scheduled in advance and that
                 unscheduled walk-in customers shall not be permitted.
        4.       That only one (1) customer at a time shall be permitted at the subject
                 property.
        5.       That one (1) off-street parking stall shall be available for the customers of the
                 business in the location shown on the approved site and parking plan.



MODEL MOTIONS AND FINDINGS

Sample Motion for Approval – I move that we approve the Home Occupation Conditional
Use Permit, as requested by Quinn Edwards, representing New Union, LLC. application
2024-0389-USE, based on the following findings for approval and subject to the conditions
listed in the Staff Report dated January 24, 2025.

Findings for approval:

        1. The proposal complies with the standards for approval found in DCMC Section 9-
           5-080(E) and potential negative impacts are mitigated through the imposition of
           reasonable conditions.

I move that we approve the Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit, as requested by
Quinn Edwards, representing New Union, LLC. application 2024-0389-USE, based on the
findings for approval and subject to the conditions listed in the Staff Report dated January
24, 2025 and as modified by the following additional findings or conditions:

        1. List any additional findings…
        2. List any additional conditions…




New Union, LLC                                                        App. # 2024-0389-USE
Home Occupation Conditional Use Request          10
Sample Motion for Denial – I move that we deny the Home Occupation Conditional Use
Permit, as requested by Quinn Edwards, representing New Union, LLC. application 2024-
0389-USE, based on the following findings and the criteria for denial as listed in the Staff
Report dated January 24, 2025.

Findings for denial:

        1. The proposal does not comply with all standards for approval found in DCMC
           Section 9-5-080(E) and potential negative impacts are not able to be sufficiently
           mitigated through the imposition of reasonable conditions.




New Union, LLC                                                     App. # 2024-0389-USE
Home Occupation Conditional Use Request       11
                     DEVELOPMENT REVIEW COMMITTEE ACKNOWLEDGEMENT


We, the undersigned, as duly appointed members of the Draper City Development Review
Committee, do acknowledge that the application which provides the subject for this staff
report has been reviewed by the Committee and has been found to be appropriate for
review by the Draper City Planning Commission and/or City Council.


                          DigHatty signed by Br«n MaMfieU                                           CHgitaKy »gnea by Todd A
                          ON:C«US,                                                                  Draper
                          E«br»en.maxiieid^ drapenjtah.gov.                                         DNC-US.
  Brien Maxfield O-Draper, 00-Pubiic Works ●                                       Todd A. Draper
                          Engineenr>g, CN<^Bnert Ma>;lie1d
                          Date: 2025.02.07 10X)537-07'00'                                           CN-’loMA. DtafMr
                                                                                                    DK*.202S0206
                                                                              zr     zr:   1                           —:—:

Draper City Public Works Department                                           Draper CiW Planning Division
                                                                                               <1

                            Oigtiaiiv signed by Don Buckley
                            ON. C-US. E-don.buckleyi@draper.ul us, 0-Draper

Don Buckley                 OtyF^re Department. OU>Firo Marshal, CN'-Oon
                            BucMey
                                  'Xi'x. no   1 g o 09



Draper City Fire Department                                                   Draper Cit/Legal Couhsel

                            Digitally $igrtod by Maithow Symes
                            DN: C«US, Esman symos^raperutah qqv.
  Matthew Symes O-Draper City Corp., CN-Matim>w Symos
                            Dato: 2025.02 05 1€:2$:2I0700*




Draper City Building Division
                                      EXHIBIT A
                                 DEPARTMENT REVIEWS

REVIEWS ARE NOT MEANT TO BE AN ALL INCLUSIVE LIST OF POSSIBLE COMMENTS OR
CONDITIONS.



Planning Division Review.

      1.     No additional comments.

Engineering and Public Works Divisions Review.

      1.     We have reviewed the subject home occupation use permit (CUP) application
             according to the standards of the Draper City Municipal Code. It is our
             understanding that the applicant is requesting a conditional use permit to
             operate a home-based business. Accordingly, we offer the following
             comments related to the engineering findings.
      2.     The present and future requirements for transportation, traffic, water, sewer,
             and other utilities for the subject site do not appear to be detrimentally
             impacted as described. Given the location and proposed use, the use is not
             anticipated to generate a significant impact to water, sewer, or other
             potential utilities.
      3.     The number of trips generated by the home owner as the applicant and no
             employees and one or two customer(s) visiting the residence will not have a
             detrimental impact to traffic in the area. The applicant indicated all products
             are sent through the mail, none sold onsite currently. The capacity of the
             fronting public street is design for heavy traffic as a major collector street. It
             has the capacity to accommodate the stated traffic generation. Based on the
             description of the traffic generated by the business, the number of trips
             generated by the applicant and potential customers is limited. Based on the
             statements of the applicant about one or two customers, no significant
             impact to traffic is anticipated with the proposed use.
      4.     The applicant indicated that all needed parking is available in the existing
             driveway and garage. The subject home is located on a busy public street
             where on-street parking is difficult. All proposed parking should be within the
             garage or driveway. Based on the information from the applicant, no
             significant impact to parking is anticipated with the proposed use.
      5.     The proposed use does not appear detrimental to the health, safety, or
             general welfare of the persons residing or working in the vicinity, or injurious
             to the property or improvements in the vicinity.
Building Division Review.

       1.     No additional comments.

Fire Division Review.

       1.     No additional comments.
  EXHIBIT B
VICINITY MAP
 EXHIBIT C
AERIAL MAP
  EXHIBIT D
LAND USE MAP
 EXHIBIT E
ZONING MAP
EXHIBIT F
SITE PLAN
 EXHIBIT G
FLOOR PLAN
      EXHIBIT H
APPLICANT STATEMENTS
Quinn Edwards
New Union LLC
12785 South 1300 East
Draper, UT 84020

Overview of Proposed Use


As a home business, I buy and sell art prints. I have some framed pieces, but most of my
pieces are single sheets of art, stored in flat files. 99% of my business is done online with
an occasional sale being made in Utah. I ship out most of my art sold via normal post and I
sell a few pieces per month, on average. I manage the business in 1 room of my 5-bedroom
house. There are no other employees; just me as the owner and operation. I would like to
have the ability to host a client, one at a time, by appointment only. I would have 1
dedicated parking spot for this purpose.

My primary residence is around 1930 square feet. The business is conducted in the primary
residence is done in one room (144 sq feet) representing about 7.4% of the total dwelling.

I would not have any signage, and I would not be trying to attract business from the street.

Thank you
Quinn Edwards
Quinn Edwards
New Union LLC
12785 South 1300 East
Draper, UT 84020

Compliance Standards, Conformity and Deviations

A. Ownership: The home occupation shall be owned and operated by a person who
resides in the dwelling where the home occupation is located. Such person shall be the
primary provider of the labor, work, or service provided in the home occupation.

Conforming – I, Quinn Edwards, own and operate the home occupation business and I live
full time in the primary residence.


B. Business License: A business license for the home occupation shall be obtained from
and continually maintained with the city pursuant to title 6, chapter 11 of this code.

Conforming – I am in the process of obtaining the license, and I will continually maintain
the license. In the process of obtaining a license, I was ﬂagged for a conditional use permit.
Non-Conforming – I do not have a license yet.


C. Employees: Members of the family of the owner who reside in the dwelling may be
employed in the home occupation. Nonfamily or nonresident employees shall be limited to
one person.

Conforming – There are no non-family nor non-resident employees of the business, and I
will not be having any.


D. Inspection: All facilities shall comply with ﬁre, building, plumbing, electrical and all
other city, county, state and federal codes. Inspections during reasonable hours by city
oTicials may occur as necessary to assure compliance with regulations.

Conforming – I have completed the “Home Fire Self Inspection Form” and have a mounted
2A10BC commercial Fire Extinguisher, and have home numbering 4 feet high, visible from
the street.
Non-Conforming – I indicated that I do not have a Residential Fire Sprinkler System and
the form stated that it would require a ﬁre department inspection
E. Inventory: No stock in trade, inventory, or other merchandise to exceed two hundred
ﬁfty (250) square feet shall be kept on the premises. No outside storage is allowed. (Ord.
909, 7-21-2009)

Conforming – I will have no outside storage. I will have less that 250 square feet of
merchandise on the premise.
Non-conforming – Everything conforms.



F. Modiﬁcation Of Structures Or Yards: There shall be no visible evidence from the
exterior of a dwelling that it is being used for any other purpose than that of a dwelling. No
activities shall be carried on outside the dwelling in the yard for the beneﬁt of or incidental
to the home occupation. No front yard area shall be altered to provide parking required for
a home occupation. (Ord. 1132, 2-17-2015)

Conforming – No exterior changes have been or will be made. There will be 1 existing
dedicated parking spots.


G. Nuisance: Tools, items, equipment, or activities conducted within the dwelling which
is oTensive or noxious by reason of the emission of odor, smoke, gas, vibration, magnetic
interference, or noise shall be prohibited.

Conforming – I am just reselling art prints and not manufacturing any products, so this is
not applicable. It is a very simple, low impact home business.


H. Secondary Use: The home occupation shall be clearly incidental and secondary to the
primary use of the dwelling for residential purposes. The home occupation shall not disrupt
the normal residential character of the neighborhood in which the residence is located. Not
more than twenty ﬁve percent (25%) of the dwelling unit shall be used for the home
occupation.

Conforming – The home occupation is secondary to the primary use of the residence. The
one bedroom used for business activities, in the 5-bedroom house, represents only 7.4 %
of the dwelling unit, well under the 25% requirement.

I. Signs: All signage in a residential area must comply with chapter 26, "Signs", of this title.

Conforming – I will not be utilizing any exterior signs or any public signage. I do not want
walk up or non-appointment customers and would not be enticing any from the street.
J. TraLic, Parking, And Access: No home occupation use shall generate pedestrian,
parking, or vehicular traTic in excess of that customarily associated with the zone in which
the use is located. All parking shall be provided and maintained on site with adequate
provision for drop oT traTic.

Conforming – I have 1 dedicated parking spot on premise, dedicated to any client visits. I
would anticipate 2-4 client visits per month, if that. I would have only 1 client visit at a time,
by appointment only: no drop ins.

K. Vehicles: Other than the business owner's personal transportation, there shall be no
vehicles or equipment on the property associated with the home occupation which would
not normally be found at a residence. No signage for the home occupation shall be allowed
on vehicles.

Conforming – No additional vehicles or equipment is needed. I would not have any signage
on any vehicle.


L. Yards: Yards surrounding the dwelling and accessory buildings shall not be used for any
activities or storage of any materials associated with the home occupation.

Conforming – No part of the business would utilize the yard or surrounding areas. There
will not be any outdoor storage.


M. Customers: No customers allowed. Children accessing a limited daycare or limited
preschool facility shall not be considered customers.

Non-Conforming – I would ask for the conditional use, to allow for clients to come on
occasion. Most of my business, 99%, is done online, with the occasional client. I would
have client visits by appointment only, and no more than 1 client at a time. As I sell high end
art, client visits are rare. I would estimate around 2-4 visits per month


N. Utility Demand: The home occupation shall not cause a demand for public utilities in
excess of that necessarily and customarily provided for residential uses.

Conforming – There is no need for additional public utilities more than normal residential
use. I do not have any special equipment or tools.


O. Main Structure: The home occupations shall be conducted, located, and contained
within the primary structure on the property. (Ord. 909, 7-21-2009)
Conforming – The main business activities are done in the primary residential dwelling
where I live. Website work, photography of the art, archiving the ﬂat prints, etc.



P. Single-Family And Multiple-Family Dwellings: Home occupations listed as permitted
or conditional within this title may be permitted in a single-family or a multiple-family
dwelling, subject to the standards found within this section and section 9-34-060 of this
chapter. Businesses within multiple-family dwellings shall provide an approval letter from
the respective homeowners' association, or management company in the case of
apartments, if the business proposes any employees, customers or business vehicles.
(Ord. 1132, 2-17-2015)

Conforming – We have a single-family dwelling and not a multi-family dwelling. There is no
HOA, no business vehicles, and no non-family employees.


Q. Licensure: Any home occupation involving childcare shall comply with all applicable
state and local laws and regulations regarding residential childcare, including, but not
limited to, provisions of the Utah child care licensing act, as set forth in Utah Code
Annotated section 26-39-101 et seq., as amended, and the residential certiﬁcate childcare
standards as set forth in the Utah administrative code section R430-50-1 et seq., as
amended. In addition, cottage food production operations are regulated and inspected by
the Utah department of agriculture. Any food related home occupation under their
jurisdiction must comply with these regulations. (Ord. 909, 7-21-2009)

Conforming – We are not involved in childcare, and this is not a part of our current nor
future business plan.
