                       INTERLOCAL COOPERATION AGREEMENT
                                    BETWEEN

                                       CITY OF DRAPER

                                               AND

              POINT OF THE MOUNTAIN STATE LAND USE AUTHORITY

         THIS INTERLOCAL COOPERATION AGREEMENT (“Agreement”) is entered into
 and effective as of September____, 2025, pursuant to the Utah Interlocal Cooperation Act, by
 and between the CITY OF DRAPER, a municipal corporation created under the laws of the
 State of Utah (“City”), and the POINT OF THE MOUNTAIN STATE LAND AUTHORITY,
 an independent entity of the State of Utah (“POMSLA”). POMSLA and the City may be jointly
 referred to as the “Parties.”
                                            RECITALS:

       A.      The State is the fee simple owner of the Project.

        B.      Although the Project is located within the City, POMSLA is the designated land use
authority for the Project and is responsible for the planning, management and implementation of
the development of the Project.

       C.       The Parties are authorized under the Utah Interlocal Cooperation Act, Section 11-
13-101, et seq., U.C.A. (2025), to enter into agreements with each other that enables them to make
the most efficient use of their powers.

       D.      The Parties have agreed to certain conditions and terms for delivery of services
under which the City will provide Public Services to the Project and regarding the construction and
dedication of certain Dedicated Public Improvements.

       E.     Each of the Parties is willing to enter into this Agreement to more fully set forth the
covenants and commitments of each Party, while giving effect to applicable state law and the City's
ordinances.

                                         AGREEMENT:

         NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the foregoing recitals, which are incorporated
 herein by this reference, and the mutual covenants and promises set forth herein, the receipt and
 sufficiency of which the Parties hereby acknowledge, the Parties agree to the following:

1.     DEFINITIONS.        As used in this Agreement, the following terms shall have the
       following meanings:

       1.1.    “Act” means the Point of the Mountain State Land Authority Act, codified as Utah
               Code Ann. §§ 11-59-102, et seq., U.C.A. (2025).

       1.2.    “Basis of Design” means the design guidelines for the Project, a copy of which is
        preserved electronically as a CD ROM and attached hereto as Exhibit “C”.

1.3.    “Certification” means a confirmation by POMSLA’s consultants, which may
        include POMSLA’s engineer(s), to Development Consultant that the Dedicated
        Public Improvements (or specified part thereof) satisfy or are constructed in
        accordance with the Basis of Design and the Recognized Safety and Design
        Standards.

1.4.    “Community Park” means that parcel of real property as shown on Exhibit B
        consisting of approximately 26.9 acres.

1.5.    “Dedicated Public Improvements” means those public infrastructure
        improvements to be constructed by, or caused to be constructed by, POMSLA,
        including but not limited to public roads, water tanks and culinary water systems,
        and storm management facilities to be dedicated to the City.

1.6.    “Detailed Design, Engineering and Specifications” means those detailed designs,
        engineering, and specifications necessary to construct any Dedicated Public
        Improvements.

1.7.    “Development” means the construction of any building or structure in the Project
        or outside the Project that is subject to Impact Fees.

1.8.    “Development Consultant” means a qualified, independent third-party consultant
        hired to perform certain duties related to the Project as provided for herein and as
        more particularly described in the Development Consultant Agreement.

1.9.    “Development Consultant Agreement” means a separate agreement to be entered
        into by City, POMSLA, and Development Consultant, which will, among other
        things, provide for the payment of Development Consultant by POMSLA.

1.10.   “Dispute” means any dispute between the Parties that is subject to the Dispute
        Resolution Process.

1.11.   “Dispute Resolution Process” means the process for resolving any Dispute
        between the Parties as specified in Section 7, below.

1.12.   “Fire Station Parcel” means that certain parcel as shown on Exhibit B consisting
        of approximately 2 acres of real property to be dedicated to the City in consideration
        of the Public Services in accordance with this Agreement.

1.13.   “Impact Fees” has the meaning given to such term as provided in the Utah “Impact
        Fees Act,” 11-36a-101, et seq., U.C.A.

1.14.   “Notice” means a notice to a Party pursuant to Section 8.

1.15.   “Operation and Maintenance (O&M)” means the ongoing activities required to
        ensure that a facility, system, or piece of equipment functions efficiently, safely, and
        effectively throughout its lifecycle.         Operation includes the management,
        monitoring, and control of processes to sustain intended performance. Maintenance
        encompasses all necessary actions, including inspections, repairs, and preventive
        measures, to mitigate deterioration and ensure continued reliability.

1.16.   “Project” means approximately 600 acres of real property, as more fully specified
        in Exhibit “A”.

1.17.   “Promenade Neighborhood” means that area of the Project that is shown on
        Exhibit “D”.

1.18.   “Public Services” means the provision to the Project of police, fire protection, and
        emergency medical services (EMS), O&M (including snowplowing) for any
        dedicated public road, culinary water, stormwater storage and disposal,
        programming and O&M of any dedicated parks, trails or open spaces, and,
        governmental functions such as review and approval of plans, inspections of work,
        and administering the provision of the other Public Services.

1.19.   “QA/QC” means Quality Assurance/Quality Control, pursuant to the Basis of
        Design, Recognized Safety and Design Standards, and customary industry
        standards, for the construction of any Dedicated Public Improvement.

1.20.   “Recognized Safety and Design Standards” means standards or guidelines for the
        design, engineering, construction, inspection, or maintenance that apply to the
        Dedicated Public Improvements, including standards established or published by
        the International Building Code, the International Fire Code, Salt Lake County
        Health Department Regulations, UDOT regulations and standards, APWA
        Specifications, American Association of State Highway and Transportation
        Officials (AAHSTO) Standards, the American Water Works Association (AWWA)
        Standards, the Manual on Uniform Traffic Control Devices (MUTCD), and similar
        standards generated by a nationally or statewide recognized construction/safety
        organization, or by the City, State, or Federal governments, required to meet
        legitimate concerns related to public health, safety, or welfare.

1.21.   "Repair and Restoration" means activities required to return a Dedicated Public
        Improvement to its original or operational condition.

1.22.   “River to Range Trail (R2R)” means that trail and associated facilities specified
        in Exhibit “B”.

1.23.   “Substantial Completion” means the point at which, in the opinion of the
        Development Consultant as evidenced by Development Consultant’s written notice
        to the Parties, the Dedicated Public Improvements (or specified part thereof) has
        progressed to where it is in a state of completion in accordance with the Basis of
        Design and the Recognized Safety and Design Standards, so that the City can
        reasonably and safely utilize the facility for the use for which it is intended, and only
             occasional construction personnel and equipment are required for correcting
             unfinished or defective work. The remaining work will not interfere with the work
             areas intended use or occupancy.

     1.24.   “Verification” means a confirmation by Development Consultant to the City that
             the Dedicated Public Improvements (or specified part thereof) satisfy and are
             designed and constructed in accordance with the Basis of Design and the
             Recognized Safety and Design Standards, as such confirmation process is more fully
             described in the Development Consultant Agreement.

2.   DURATION. The term of this Agreement shall begin upon execution and shall expire on
     December 31, 2074 unless terminated earlier pursuant to Section 7 or 9.8. Commencing on
     April 1, 2030 and continuing throughout the term of this Agreement, this Agreement shall be
     subject to a joint periodic review by the City and POMSLA every four years to assess its
     terms and conditions contained herein.

3.   PROVISION OF SERVICES. The City shall provide the Public Services to the Project.
     The Project shall be treated, for all purposes related to the Public Services, as a part of the
     City, and the residents and occupants thereof shall be treated in all respects as any other
     development, resident, or occupant of the City is treated.

     3.1.    Promenade Neighborhood Exclusion. The City shall provide all of the Public
             Services to the Promenade Neighborhood, EXCEPT for the O&M and Repair and
             Restoration for all roads, streetscape, landscaping, streetlights and managing the
             stormwater system as illustrated on Exhibit “D”.

     3.2.    R2R Exclusion. The City shall provide all of the Public Services to the R2R,
             EXCEPT for the O&M and Repair and Restoration for all landscaping, trails, lights
             and stormwater system as illustrated on Exhibit “E”.

     3.3.    Phased Provision of Public Services. The City’s obligation to provide Public
             Services to the Project shall be phased in accordance with the development progress
             of the Project.

4.   IMPACT FEES.

     4.1.    Existing Impact Fees. The City has provided to POMSLA the Impact Fees that the
             City charges with respect to the development of real property within the City.
             Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Agreement, POMLSA shall not
             have any obligation or duty to investigate, inquire into, or seek updates regarding
             the accuracy, completeness, or current status of the Impact Fees.

     4.2.    Future Impact Fees. During the term of this Agreement, the City may adopt other
             Impact Fees or amend the current Impact Fees which shall apply to all third-party
             development within the Project, effective as provided under the Impact Fees Act. If
             and when the City adopts such future Impact Fees or amends the current Impact
             Fees, the City shall give Notice to POMSLA. Such Notice shall not affect the
             applicability of the Impact Fees as to third-party developers.
     4.3.   Calculation of Impact Fees. The City will calculate any Impact Fees that may be
            due for any Development and provide such calculation to POMSLA.

     4.4.   POMSLA Exemption from Impact Fees. The Parties acknowledge that POMSLA
            is exempt from paying any Impact Fees.

     4.5.   Payment from Third Parties. POMSLA will use its best efforts to collect and
            transfer to the City an amount equal to the Impact Fees for Development performed
            by third parties within the Project, with such amount being subject to any credit or
            offset as provided in the Impact Fee Act.


5.   DEDICATED PUBLIC IMPROVEMENTS.

     5.1.   Basis of Design. POMSLA has provided the Basis of Design to the City, which
            provides, among other things, for the design of the Dedicated Public Improvements.
            Any revisions to the Basis of Design shall be subject in all respects to Section 5.1.2
            below.

            5.1.1. Representation of Compliance with Recognized Safety and Design Standards.
                   POMSLA hereby represents and warrants that, as of the date of this
                   Agreement, the Basis of Design complies with the Recognized Safety and
                   Design Standards.

            5.1.2. Development Consultant.

                   5.1.2.1.    After the date of this Agreement, POMSLA shall provide to the
                               Development Consultant any proposed revisions to the Basis of
                               Design that result in a change to the Dedicated Public
                               Improvements. In accordance with the Development Consultant
                               Agreement, Development Consultant shall review any and all
                               revisions to the Basis of Design that affect the Dedicated Public
                               Improvements. If the Development Consultant determines that
                               such revisions comply with the Recognized Safety and Design
                               Standards then the Development Consultant shall issue a
                               Verification to the City. If the Development Consultant cannot, in
                               accordance with the Development Consultant Agreement, provide
                               such Verification, Development Consultant shall notify POMSLA
                               of all reasons therefor and POMSLA shall make modification
                               required to obtain such Verification. Revisions shall not be made
                               to the Basis of Design without such certification to the City or as
                               otherwise mutually agreed to by POMSLA and the City.
                   5.1.2.2.    As promptly as commercially reasonable after the date of this
                               Agreement and in accordance with the Development Consultant
                               Agreement, the Development Consultant shall provide
                               Verification to City that the Basis of Design complies with the
                               Recognized Safety and Design Standards and are appropriate for
           the intended use of the Dedicated Public Improvements. For any
           design in the Basis for Design for a Dedicated Public Improvement
           that does not comply with the Draper City Code or the Draper City
           Engineering Standards, Development Consultant shall provide a
           detailed written explanation to the City of such noncompliance
           and determination by Development Consultant that
           notwithstanding such noncompliance, the design does meet the
           Recognized Safety and Design Standards and is of an appropriate
           nature for the intended use of such design. As more fully provided
           for in the Development Consultant Agreement, if the
           Development Consultant determines that any part of the Basis of
           Design does not comply with Recognized Safety and Design
           Standards or is not appropriate for its intended use, the
           Development Consultant will provide a detailed written
           explanation of all deficiencies to both the City and POMSLA.
           POMSLA shall, within thirty (30) days of receiving such
           explanation, submit a revised Basis of Design addressing all
           deficiencies to the Development Consultant for review and
           recommendation. If the Development Consultant determines that
           the revised Basis of Design remains non-compliant or unsuitable,
           POMSLA shall not proceed with any construction based on a non-
           compliant or unsuitable Basis of Design unless mutually agreed in
           writing by the parties. Any disagreement regarding the
           Consultant’s findings shall be deemed a Dispute under Section 7.

5.1.2.3.   By written Notice to POMSLA as provided for in the
           Development Consultant Agreement, the Development
           Consultant may request a Certification as necessary to provide a
           Verification. POMSLA shall use best efforts that cause its third
           party consultants, include its engineers, to provide a Certification
           to Development Consultant within thirty (30) days of receipt of
           Notice requesting such Certification.

5.1.2.4.   At the request of the City, Development Consultant shall evaluate
           the anticipated lifecycle and yearly costs for O&M and Repair and
           Restoration for a system of the Dedicated Public Improvements as
           proposed by POMSLA and compare those proposed costs with the
           cost that would be incurred by the City if that system of the
           Dedicated Public Improvements were to be constructed pursuant
           to City’s standards. If the Development Consultant determines
           that such costs for O&M and Repair and Restoration for the
           Dedicated Public Improvements as proposed by POMSLA are at
           least Fifty Thousand and NO/100 Dollars ($50,000.00) greater
           than that which would have been incurred following City’s
           standards then POMSLA shall either use City’s standards or make
           arrangements to compensate City for the cost differential in an
           amount to be determined by the Development Consultant. Any
           disagreement between the parties regarding this subsection shall
                          be considered a Dispute under Section 7.

       5.1.3. Culinary Water Requirement. For any Dedicated Public Improvement that
              connects to the City’s culinary water system, the Dedicated Public
              Improvement shall comply with the Draper City Code and the Draper City
              Engineering Standards, unless the City, in its sole discretion, allows a
              deviation from the City’s standards.

       5.1.4. Storm Water. Any storm water system in the Project shall comply with the
              Draper City Code and the Draper City Engineering Standards, unless the City,
              in its sole discretion, allows a deviation from the City’s standards.

       5.1.5. Subsequent Discovery on Non-Compliance. If the City discovers that a design
              for a Dedicated Public Improvement yet to be constructed or that is in the
              course of construction does not comply with the Basis of Design or is as
              otherwise certified by Development Consultant in Subsection 5.1.2.2 above,
              the City shall give POMSLA notice of that non-compliance, and POMSLA
              and the Development Consultant shall promptly investigate that non-
              compliance. POMSLA shall either remedy such noncompliance or provide to
              City and the Development Consultant a detailed written explanation
              demonstrating why POMSLA believes that the non-compliance should be
              accepted by the City. If the Development Consultant is of the opinion that the
              non-compliance is equal in all respects to the Recognized Safety and Design
              Standards then the Development Consultant shall issue a Certification to that
              effect to the City. If the Development Consultant cannot, in its opinion, make
              such a Certification than the Development Consultant shall notify POMSLA
              of all reasons therefor and POMSLA shall make modification required to
              obtain such a Certification.

       5.1.6. Review by the City. The City shall promptly review any materials submitted
              by POMSLA.

5.2.   Detailed Design, Engineering and Specifications. From time to time, as necessary
       for the construction of Dedicated Public Improvements, POMSLA shall provide to
       the Development Consultant the Detailed Design, Engineering and Specifications for
       the Dedicated Public Improvements. The Detailed Design, Engineering and
       Specifications for the Dedicated Public Improvement shall comply with the Basis of
       Design and Recognized Safety and Design Standards. The Development Consultant
       shall certify to the City that the Detailed Design, Engineering and Specifications for
       the Dedicated Public Improvements comply with the Basis of Design and the
       Recognized Safety and Design Standards.
       5.2.1. Culinary Water Requirement. For any Dedicated Public Improvement that
               connects to the City’s culinary water system, the Dedicated Public
               Improvement shall comply with the Draper City Code and the Draper City
               Engineering Standards, unless the City, in its sole discretion, allows a
               deviation from the City’s standards.

       5.2.2. Storm Water. Any storm water system in the Project shall comply with the
              Draper City Code and the Draper City Engineering Standards, unless the City,
              in its sole discretion, allows a deviation from the City’s standards.

       5.2.3. Exceptions in Detailed Design, Engineering and Specifications. As shall be
              more particularly provided of within the Development Consultant Agreement,
              for any design, engineering, or specification in the Detailed Design,
              Engineering and Specifications for the Dedicated Public Improvement that
              does not comply with the Recognized Safety and Design Standards:

              5.2.3.1. Explanation by POMSLA.            POMSLA shall provide to the
                       Development Consultant a detailed written explanation with all
                       supporting information that may be required by the Development
                       Consultant for any and all deviations from the Recognized Safety and
                       Design Standards and an explanation of why even though the
                       proposed Detailed Design, Engineering and Specifications for the
                       Dedicated Public Improvement does not comply with the Recognized
                       Safety and Design Standards POMSLA believes that it should
                       nonetheless be recommended by the Development Consultant for
                       accept by the City.

              5.2.3.2. Review by Development Consultant. The Development Consultant
                      shall review POMSLA’s request and shall make a written
                      recommendation to the City to either accept or reject the non-
                      compliant item(s). If the Development Consultant recommends
                      acceptance the Development Consultant shall provide to the City a
                      written assessment by the Development Consultant of any risks that
                      may be incurred by the City in accepting any proposed Detailed
                      Design, Engineering and Specifications for the Dedicated Public
                      Improvement that does not comply with Recognized Safety and
                      Design Standards. If the Development Consultant recommends
                      rejection of the non-compliant item(s) the City shall not be required to
                      accept the item(s).

       5.2.4. Review by the City. The City shall have ten (10) business days to review the
              materials submitted by Development Consultant pursuant to Subsection
              5.2.3.2 and the Development Consultant’s recommendation for approval. If
              the City agrees to the requested exception, then the City shall provide Notice
              of the acceptance to POMSLA. If the City does not agree to the requested
              exception, if the Development Consultant has recommended approval, then
              that disagreement shall be deemed to be a Dispute. If the City fails to respond
              to the requested exception within such ten (10) business days, then the City
              shall be deemed to have consented to such requested exception. If the City
              requires additional time for review due to the complexity of the materials, it
              may request an extension of up to ten (10) additional business days, which
              shall not be unreasonably denied by POMSLA.

5.3.   QA/QC – Inspections. For the construction of each Dedicated Public Improvement,
       POMSLA shall, in cooperation with the City, create a QA/QC plan for the
        Development Consultant to ensure that the Dedicated Public Improvement is
        constructed in compliance with the Basis of Design and the Detailed Design,
        Engineering and Specifications for such Dedicated Public Improvement. The plan
        for QA/QC shall provide for an appropriate role for the Development Consultant and
        the City to observe the construction work on the Dedicated Public Improvement. The
        plan shall also provide for a process to resolve emergency or “field” issues.

        5.3.1. This plan will be reviewed by the Development Consultant with input from
               the City. If the Development Consultant recommends acceptance of the
               QA/QC plan the Development Consultant shall provide a Verification to the
               City. If the City does not agree to the Verification such disagreement shall
               constitute a Dispute. In such event, if arbitration is required, the arbitrator
               shall presume that the proposal from the Development Consultant is correct
               unless the City establishes that the proposal does not meet industry standards.

        5.3.2. The City shall have the right to perform any additional inspections and
               independent testing it deems necessary to verify compliance at its own
               expense, and the City’s exercise of this right shall not be restricted, provided
               that such inspections or independent testing are conducted in a manner that
               does not unreasonably interfere with the Project.

 5.4.    QA/QC Failures. If the Development Consultant determines that a portion of the
         Dedicated Public Improvements fails to pass the QA/QC inspection, the
         Development Consultant shall inform the City of such failure and the City shall give
         POMSLA a Notice that the City considers such alleged non-compliance to be a
         Dispute.

5.5.    As-Built Drawings. At the conclusion of the construction of the Dedicated Public
        Improvement, POMSLA shall provide the City with industry standard “as-built”
        drawings of such Dedicated Public Improvement.

5.6.    Acceptance of Dedication. POMSLA shall, within thirty (30) days of Substantial
        Completion, offer to dedicate the Dedicated Public Improvements free and clear of
        liens, to the City and the City shall accept such improvements upon dedication thereof
        upon Verification from the Development Consultant in accordance with the
        Development Consultant Agreement.

        5.6.1.   Easements. Any of the dedications in this section shall be free and clear of
                 any easements except for those which the City, in its sole discretion, may
                 accept.

        5.6.2.   Warranty Bonds. Prior to any Dedicated Public Improvement being accepted
                 by the City the City shall be provided with a warranty bond for the Dedicated
                 Public Improvement in an amount and form pursuant to the City’s generally
                 applicable standards.

        5.6.3.   O&M/Repair and Restoration. From and after the dedication of the
                 Dedicated Public Improvement, the City shall be responsible for the O&M
                     and Repair and Restoration for that Dedicated Public Improvement.

            5.6.4.   Future Road Improvements. The City’s acceptance of any road that is a
                     Dedicated Public Improvement does not create any duty on the City to
                     install any future improvements, such as a full width completion,
                     streetlights, curb, gutter, sidewalk within right-of-way dedicated to the
                     City that is not built to a completed road profile when dedicated to the
                     City.

            5.6.5.   Dedication of Warranties. POMSLA shall dedicate and assign any
                     warranties POMSLA may have related to Dedicated Public
                     Improvements to the City upon transfer of such Dedicated Public
                     Improvements. City and POMSLA shall take all necessary actions and
                     execute any documents required to effectuate such dedication and
                     assignment so that the City shall have full benefit, as applicable, of such
                     warranties.

            5.6.6.   Assignment of Other Right Regarding Defects Out of Warranty. Upon
                     transfer of such Dedicated Public Improvements POMSLA shall also
                     dedicate and assign to the City any privity of contract rights that
                     POMSLA may have related to any defects related to the Dedicated Public
                     Improvements that may occur or be discovered outside of any warranty
                     period. City and POMSLA shall take all necessary actions and execute
                     any documents required to effectuate such dedication and assignment so
                     that the City shall have full benefit, as applicable, of such privity of
                     contract rights.

     5.7.   Dispute Resolution. Any Dispute regarding this Section 5 shall be resolved pursuant
            to the Dispute Resolution Process as specified in Section 7. Notwithstanding, City’s
            sole and absolute remedy for any POMSLA breach of Article 5 of this Agreement,
            shall be to deny the dedication of any Dedicated Public Improvement subject to such
            breach. For avoidance of doubt, City shall not be required to provide the Public
            Services to any Dedicated Public Improvement that has not satisfied the requirements
            of this Article 5.

6.   COMMUNITY PARK AND FIRE STATION PARCEL.

     6.1.   Timing of Dedication. In partial consideration for the Public Services provided by
            the City throughout the term of this Agreement, POMSLA will, on or before
            December 31, 2028, dedicate to the City the Community Park and the Fire Station
            Parcel.

     6.2.   O&M. From and after the dedication of the Community Park and the Fire Station
            Parcel, the City shall be responsible for the O&M for the Community Park and/or the
            Fire Station Parcel.

     6.3.   City Development. The City shall develop, or cause to be developed, the
            Community Park and the Fire Station Parcel, subject, in City’s sole discretion, to
            City’s available resources, and consistent with the development of the Project.

     6.4.   Reversion. The instrument(s) dedicating the Community Park and the Fire Station
            Parcel shall contain reversionary clauses specifying that the Fire Station Parcel and
            the Community Park may only be used by the City for public purposes, which may
            include renting or leasing the space for events by third-parties, and may not be
            sold for development or any other non-public purposes.

7.   DISPUTE RESOLUTION PROCESS.

     7.1.   Meet and Confer. The City and POMSLA shall meet within thirty (30) business
            days of any Dispute to resolve the Dispute.

     7.2.   Mediation of Disputes. If the Parties are unable to resolve any Dispute by the Meet
            and Confer required by Section 7.1 the Parties shall mediate the Dispute.

            7.2.1. Mediation Process. The Parties shall attempt, within twenty (20) business
                   days of any Dispute, to appoint a mutually acceptable mediator with
                   knowledge of the legal or factual issues of the Dispute. If the Parties are
                   unable to agree on a single acceptable mediator, they shall each within
                   twenty (20) business days, appoint their own representative. These two
                   representatives shall, between them, choose the single mediator. The Parties
                   shall jointly pay the fees of the chosen mediator. The chosen mediator shall
                   within fifteen (15) business days, review the positions of the Parties
                   regarding the Dispute and promptly attempt to mediate the Dispute between
                   the Parties. If the Parties cannot reach an agreement, the mediator shall
                   notify the Parties in writing of the resolution that the mediator deems
                   appropriate. The mediator's opinion shall not be binding on the Parties.

     7.3.   Arbitration of Disputes.

            7.3.1. Mediation Required Before Arbitration. Unless otherwise agreed to by the
                   Parties, prior to any arbitration, the Parties shall first attempt mediation as
                   specified in Section 7.2.

            7.3.2. Arbitration Process. If the Parties are unable to resolve the Dispute through
                   mediation, the Parties shall attempt within twenty (20) business days to
                   appoint a mutually acceptable expert in the professional discipline of the
                   Dispute. If the Parties are unable to agree on a single acceptable arbitrator,
                   they shall each, within twenty (20) business days, appoint their own
                   individual appropriate expert. These two experts shall, between them,
                   choose the single arbitrator. The chosen arbitrator shall within fifteen (15)
                   business days, review the positions of the Parties regarding the Dispute and
                   render a decision. The arbitrator shall request the prevailing Party to draft a
                   proposed order for consideration and objection by the other Party. Upon
                   adoption by the arbitrator, and consideration of such objections, the
                   arbitrator's decision shall be final and binding upon the Parties. As a part of
                   the arbitrator’s determination, the arbitrator shall determine which Party
                    shall pay the costs of the arbitration based on the relative success of the
                    Parties respective positions.

8.   NOTICES.         Any notice required or permitted to be given hereunder shall be deemed
     sufficient if given in writing and shall be deemed to have been received (a) upon personal
     delivery or actual receipt thereof, or (b) within three days after such notice is deposited in
     the United States mail, postage prepaid, and certified and addressed as follows:

            To POMSLA:                     The Point of the Mountain
                                           State Land Authority
                                           Attn: Executive Director
                                           PO Box 692
                                           Draper, UT 84020

            With a Copy to:                Ballard Spahr LLP
                                           Attn: Steven P. Mehr
                                           201 South Main St., Suite 800
                                           Salt Lake City, UT 84111-2215

            To Draper City:                Draper City
                                           Attn: Mayor
                                           1020 East Pioneer Road
                                           Draper, UT 84020

            With a Copy to:                Draper City
                                           Attn: City Attorney
                                           1020 East Pioneer Road
                                           Draper, UT 84020

9.   INTERLOCAL COOPERATION ACT.

     9.1.   Approval. This Agreement shall be approved by each Party pursuant to Section
            11-13-202.5 of the Interlocal Act.

     9.2.   Form. This Agreement shall be reviewed as to proper form and compliance with
            applicable law by a duly authorized attorney on behalf of each Party, pursuant to
            Section 11-13-202.5 of the Interlocal Act.

     9.3.   Recordation. A duly executed original counterpart of this Agreement shall be
            filed with the keeper of records of each Party, pursuant to Section 11-13-209 of
            the Interlocal Act.

     9.4.   Costs. Except as otherwise specifically provided herein, each Party shall be
            responsible for its own costs incurred in any actions taken pursuant to this
            Agreement, as well as for any financing of such costs.

     9.5.   No Separate Entity. No separate legal entity is created by the terms of this
            Agreement.
      9.6.   Personal Property. No real or personal property shall be acquired jointly by the
             Parties as a result of this Agreement. To the extent that a Party acquires, holds or
             disposes of any real or personal property for use in the joint or cooperative
             undertaking contemplated by this Agreement, such Party shall do so in the same
             manner that it deals with the other property of that Party.

      9.7.   Administrative Board. Pursuant to Section 11-13-207 of the Interlocal
             Cooperation Act, an officer vested with the executive power from the City and
             from POMSLA are hereby designated as the joint administrative board for all
             purposes of the Interlocal Cooperation Act.

      9.8.   Termination. This Agreement shall remain in effect for the duration specified
             in Section 2 unless terminated earlier by mutual written consent of the parties or
             as otherwise provided herein. Partial or complete termination may occur under
             the following conditions:

             9.8.1. Mutual Agreement: The parties may jointly agree in writing to terminate
                  this Agreement, specifying the effective date of termination and any
                  conditions necessary to effectuate termination.

             9.8.2. Breach or Default: Either party may terminate this Agreement upon
                  material breach by the other party, provided that the non-breaching party
                  delivers a Notice of the breach, and the breaching party fails to cure such
                  breach within sixty (60) days of receiving notice. If the breach remains
                  uncured, the non-breaching party may provide written notice of termination,
                  effective thirty (30) days thereafter. Any Notice in accordance with this
                  Subsection 9.8.2 shall (i) specify the claimed event of beach, (ii) identify with
                  particularity the provisions of any applicable law, rule, regulation, or
                  provision of this Agreement that is claimed to be in breach, (iii) identify why
                  the breach is claimed to be material; and (iv) propose a method and time for
                  curing the breach which shall be of no less than thirty (30) days duration.
                  Upon failure to timely cure a claimed breach, the Parties shall engage in the
                  Dispute Resolution Processes prior to terminating this Agreement.

10.   ASSIGNMENT. Neither this Agreement nor any of the provisions, terms, or conditions
      hereof can be assigned by POMSLA to any other party, individual, or entity without assigning
      both the rights as well as the obligations under this Agreement. If any portion of the Property
      is transferred to a third party, the transferee shall be substituted as POMSLA for that portion
      of the Property under this Agreement, and the persons and/or entities executing this
      Agreement as POMSLA shall be released from any further obligations for such portion of the
      Property. The rights of the City under this Agreement shall not be assigned, but the City is
      authorized to enter into a contract with a third party or create a local district to perform its
      obligations to operate and maintain any Public Services, provided that such Party or entity
      adequately and reasonably maintains and operates such Public Services.

11. MISCELLANEOUS.
11.1.   Condition Subsequent. The effectiveness of this Agreement is conditioned upon
        the subsequent entry of the Development Consultant Agreement. Notwithstanding
        anything to the contrary contained herein, any termination of the Development
        Consultant Agreement after such has been entered into, shall not relieve City or
        POMSLA from each of their respective obligations under this Agreement.

11.2.   Easements. For any roads or trails in the Promenade Neighborhood or the R2R
        POMSLA shall grant easements to the City as appropriate and necessary to allow
        the City to construct utility lines necessary to service the Project and for other
        necessary City purposes.

11.3.   Scope of This Agreement. This Agreement is only related to the Project. The
        Parties acknowledge that the terms of this Agreement do NOT apply to any other
        development by POMSLA.

11.4.   Liability. The City and POMSLA are governmental entities under the Utah
        Governmental Immunity Act, Utah Code Ann. § 63G-7-101. Consistent with the
        terms of the Act, and as provided herein, it is mutually agreed that each party is
        responsible and liable for its own wrongful or negligent acts committed by it or by
        its agents, officers, or employees. Neither party waives any defenses available under
        the Act nor does any Party waive any limits of liability currently provided by the
        Act.

11.5.   No Waiver of Governmental Immunity. Nothing in this Agreement is intended
        to, or shall be deemed, a waiver of the Party's governmental immunity.

11.6.   Agency. No agent, employee or servant of the City or POMSLA is or shall be
        deemed to be an employee, agent, or servant of the other Party. None of the benefits
        provided by each Party to its employees, including but not limited to workers’
        compensation insurance, health insurance, and unemployment insurance, are
        available to the employees, agents, or servants of the other Party. The City and
        POMSLA shall each be solely and entirely responsible for their own acts and for
        the acts of their own agents, employees, and servants during the performance of this
        Agreement. Draper City acts as an independent contractor and is not an employee
        or agent of POMSLA.

11.7.   Development Consultant. The Development Consultant shall be mutually agreed
        to by City and POMSLA. City and POMSLA will work together in good faith to
        select the Development Consultant and enter into the Development Consultant
        Agreement. The Development Consultant shall maintain independence from both
        parties. In the event that that the Development Consultant Agreement is terminated
        in accordance with the terms thereof, City and POMSLA will work together in good
        faith to select a new Development Consultant and enter into a new Development
        Consultant Agreement Any disagreement between the City and POMSLA regarding
        the Development Consultant or the termination of the Development Consultant
        Agreement shall be a Dispute.

        11.7.1. During any period where there is no Development Consultant because of a
               termination of a Development Consultant before the selection of a new
               Development Consultant then the Parties shall cooperate to enforce the QA/QC
               plan. If the City has any disagreements with a POMSLA submittal or the
               QA/QC plan the Parties shall consider that to be a Dispute and subject to Section
               7.

11.8.     Development Consultant Payment Responsibilities. POMSLA shall pay the
          Development Consultant for all fees and expenses in accordance with the terms of
          a separate contract between the Development Consultant , City and POMSLA.
          Failure by POMSLA to pay such fees and expenses shall constitute a material
          default of this Agreement, and the City shall provide Notice to POMSLA of such
          default. If POMSLA fails to cure the default within fifteen (15) days of receiving
          Notice, the matter shall be deemed a Dispute under Section 7, and the City may
          suspend any obligations related to the review or acceptance of Dedicated Public
          Improvements until the default is cured.

11.9.     Calculation Of Dates. If any of the dates specified herein occur on a weekend or
          Federal or State holiday, then the next business day shall be considered the
          applicable date.

11.10.    No Third-Party Beneficiary. This Agreement is made and entered into for the sole
          protection and benefit of the Parties and their assigns. No other Party shall have any
          right of action based upon any provision of this Agreement, whether as third-party
          beneficiary or otherwise

1 1 . 1 1 . Counterparts. This Agreement may be executed in counterparts and all so executed
            will constitute one agreement binding on all the Parties, it being understood that all
            Parties need not sign the same counterpart. Further, executed copies of this
            Agreement delivered by facsimile or email will be deemed an original signed copy
            of this Agreement.

1 1 . 1 2 . No Officer Or Employee Interest. No officer or employee of Draper City or
            POMSLA has or shall have any pecuniary interest, direct or indirect, in this
            Agreement or the proceeds thereof.

1 1 . 1 3 . Binding Effect. The burdens and benefits of this Agreement shall bind and inure
            to the benefit of each of the Parties hereto and their successors in interest.

1 1 . 1 4 . Headings. The descriptive headings of the paragraphs of this Agreement are
            inserted for convenience only and shall not control the meaning or construction of
            any of the provisions hereof.

1 1 . 1 5 . Counterparts; Exhibits; Entire Agreement. This Agreement may be executed in
            multiple counterparts, each of which is deemed to be an original. This Agreement,
            together with all the exhibits constitute the entire understanding and agreement of
            the Parties to this Agreement.

1 1 . 1 6 . Construction. The singular shall include the plural; the masculine gender shall
          include the feminine; “shall” is mandatory; “may” is permissive.

1 1 . 1 7 . No Presumption. This Agreement has been reviewed and revised by legal counsel
            for both POMSLA and the City, and no presumption or rule that ambiguities shall
            be construed against the drafting Party shall apply to the interpretation or
            enforcement of this Agreement.

1 1 . 1 8 . Further Assurances, Documents and Acts. Each Party agrees to cooperate in good
            faith with the others and to execute and deliver such further documents and to take
            all further acts reasonably necessary in order to carry out the intent and purposes of
            this Agreement and the actions contemplated hereby. All provisions and
            requirements of this Agreement shall be carried out by each Party as allowed by
            law.

1 1 . 1 9 . Waiver. No delay in exercising any right or remedy shall constitute a waiver
            thereof, and no waiver by the City or POMSLA for the breach of any covenant of
            this Agreement shall be construed as a waiver of any preceding or succeeding breach
            of the same or any other covenant or condition of this Agreement.

1 1 . 2 0 . Governing Law. This Agreement shall be governed by and construed in
            accordance with the laws of the State of Utah.

1 1 . 2 1 . Force Majeure. Neither Party shall be liable for any delay or failure in the keeping
            or performance of its obligations under this Agreement during the time and to the
            extent that any such failure is due to causes beyond the control and without the fault
            or negligence of the Party affected, including, acts of God, acts of the United States
            Government or the State of Utah, fires, floods, strikes, embargoes, wars, terrorist
            acts, or unusually adverse weather conditions. Upon the occurrence of any such
            cause, the affected Party shall notify the other Party and shall promptly resume the
            keeping and performance of its obligations after such cause has ended.

1 1 . 2 2 . Nondiscrimination. Neither the City nor POMSLA, nor the agents, employees, or
            representatives of either Party, shall discriminate against, segregate, persecute,
            oppress, or harass the agents, employees, or representatives of the other Party;
            contractors or subcontractors; or the agents, employees, or representatives of any of
            the foregoing: tenants, owners, occupants, or residents, whether actual or potential,
            or any other person or entity.

1 1 . 2 3 . Institution of Legal Action. In addition to any other rights or remedies, any Party
            may institute legal action to cure, correct or remedy any default or breach, to
            specifically enforce any covenants or agreements set forth in this Agreement, to
            enjoin any threatened or attempted violation of this Agreement, or to obtain any
            remedies consistent with the purpose of this Agreement. Legal actions shall be
            instituted in the Third District Court, Salt Lake County Division.

1 1 . 2 4 . Entire Agreement And Amendment. This agreement constitutes the entire
            agreement between the Parties, and no other promises or understandings, express or
            implied, shall be binding upon the Parties. No amendment to this agreement shall
be effective unless made in writing and signed by both Parties. Any amendment to
this Agreement must be approved pursuant to a vote of the City's City Council, taken
with the same formality as the vote approving this Agreement.


                [SIGNATURE PAGE FOLLOWS]
        IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Parties have subscribed their names hereon and caused
this agreement to be duly executed on the     day of September, 2025.


                              POMSLA:

                              POINT OF THE MOUNTAIN STATE LAND AUTHORITY,
                              an independent entity of the State of Utah


                              By:
                              Name:
                              Its:



                              CITY OF DRAPER



                              By:
                              Name:
                              Its:




                                           18
