MEMO
To: City Council
From: Paul Geilman
Date: 2025-07-01
Re: Public Hearing: Ordinance #1663


Comments:

This application is a request for approval of a Zoning Map Amendment for approximately
0.93 acres located on the west side of 300 East, at approximately 13232 S. 300 E. The
property is currently zoned RA1. The applicant is requesting that the application be
approved to allow for a future property line adjustment with a neighbor.

The Planning Commission reviewed this item at their June 12, 2025 meeting and
forwarded a positive recommendation for the application with a vote of 5-0.

Findings for Approval:

  1. The proposed zoning map amendment is consistent with goals, objectives, and
     policies of the city's general plan.
  2. The proposed zoning map amendment is harmonious with the overall character of
     existing development in the vicinity of the subject property.
  3. The proposed zoning map amendment is consistent with the standards of any
     applicable overlay zone.
  4. The proposed zoning map amendment will not adversely affect adjacent property.
  5. There are adequate facilities and services intended to serve the subject property,
     including, but not limited to, roadways, parks and recreation facilities, police and fire
     protection, schools, stormwater drainage systems, water supplies, and wastewater
     and refuse collection.



Findings for Denial:

  1. The proposed zoning map amendment is not consistent with goals, objectives, and
     policies of the city's general plan.
  2. The proposed zoning map amendment is not harmonious with the overall character
     of existing development in the vicinity of the subject property.
  3. The proposed zoning map amendment will adversely affect adjacent property.
  4. There are not adequate facilities and services intended to serve the subject
     property, including, but not limited to, roadways, parks and recreation facilities,
     police and fire protection, schools, stormwater drainage systems, water supplies,
     and wastewater and refuse collection.


ATTACHMENTS:

Whittington Zoning Map Amendment Ordinance #1663.pdf
ATTACHMENTS:

Whittington ZMA Staff Report Final.pdf
