MEMO
To: Planning Commission
From: Todd Taylor
Date: 2025-09-11
Re: Public Hearing: Jiffy Lube Conditional Use Permit Amendment and Site Plan Requests
(Administrative Action)


Comments:

This application is a request for approval of a Conditional Use Permit Amendment and a
Site Plan for approximately 0.35 acres located on the north side of 12300 South, at
approximately 681 East 12300 South. The property is currently zoned CC (Community
Commercial). The applicant is requesting that the Conditional Use Permit Amendment
and Site Plan be approved to allow for the development of the property as a limited
vehicle repair business.

Conditional Use Permit

Findings for approval:
  1. The proposal complies with the standards for approval found in DCMC Section 9-5-
     080(E) and potential negative impacts are mitigated through the imposition of
     reasonable conditions.

Findings for denial:
  1. The proposal does not comply with all standards for approval found in DCMC
     Section 9-5-080(E) and potential negative impacts are not able to be sufficiently
     mitigated through the imposition of reasonable conditions.

Site Plan

Findings for approval:
  1. The site plan reflects the full development of the property.
  2. The site plan, with approval of the conditional use permit request, conforms to
     applicable standards set forth in ordinance, including but not limited to, building
     heights, setbacks, access points, parking, landscaping, and building materials.
  3. The proposed development plans meet the intent, goals, and objectives of the
     general plan and the purpose of the zoning district in which the site is located.
  4. The public facilities and services in the area are adequate to support the subject
     development, as required by engineering standards and specifications.
  5. The proposed development plans will comply with the engineering standards found
     in Titles 7, 8, 11, 12, 16, and 18 of the DCMC, including traffic, storm water drainage,
     and utilities concerns.

Findings for denial:
  1. The site plan does not conform to applicable standards set forth in ordinance,
     including but not limited to, building heights, setbacks, access points, parking,
     landscaping, and building materials.
  2. The proposed development plans do not meet the intent, goals, and objectives of
     the general plan or the purpose of the CR zoning district in which the site is located.
  3. The public facilities and services in the area are not adequate to support the subject
     development, as required by engineering standards and specifications.
  4. The proposed development plans do not comply with one or more of the
     engineering standards found in Titles 7, 8, 11, 12, 16, and 18 of the DCMC.


ATTACHMENTS:

Jiffy Lube CUP SP Staff Report_Finalized.pdf
