                                  Development Review Committee
                                      1020 East Pioneer Road
                                        Draper, UT 84020
                                          October 31, 2025

To:              Draper City Planning Commission
                 Business Date: November 13, 2025

From:            Development Review Committee

Prepared By: Nick Whittaker, MCMP, Planner II
             Planning Division
             Community Development Department
             801-576-6522, Nick.Whittaker@draperutah.gov

Re:     The Ozzy Shepherd, LLC. – Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit Request
        Application No.: 2025-0156-USE
        Applicant:        Kim Mazzucchelli representing The Ozzy Shepherd, LLC.
        Project Location: 13034 S. Mountain Crest Cir.
        Current Zoning: RA2 (Residential Agricultural 20,000 ft2 minimum lot size) Zone
        Acreage:          0.34 Acres (Approximately 14,810 ft2)
        Request:          Request for approval of a Home Occupation Conditional Use
                          Permit in the RA2 zone to operate a home office.



BACKGROUND AND SUMMARY

This application is a request for approval of a Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit for
approximately 0.34 acres located on the west side of Mountain Crest Cir. at approximately
13034 S. Mountain Crest Cir. (Exhibit C & D). The property is currently zoned RA2. The
applicant is requesting that a Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit be approved to
allow for a home office that provides firearm transfer services and the online sales of
firearms, outdoor apparel and novelty Australian products.

The subject property is Lot 113 of the Deer Hollow Subdivision, Phase One. A detached
single-family dwelling was built on the subject property in 1998. The business will utilize an
approximately 215 ft2 office space located within the dwelling for business administration
and storing inventory (Exhibits G & H).




The Ozzy Shepherd, LLC                                          App. # 2025-0156-USE
Home Occupation Conditional Use Request          1
ANALYSIS

General Plan and Zoning.

 Table 1                   General Plan and Zoning Designations                      Exhibit
 Existing Land Use         Residential Medium Density                                Exhibit D
 Current Zoning            RA2                                                       Exhibit E
 Adjacent Zoning
    East                   RA2 (Residential Agricultural)
    West                   RA2
    North                  RA2
    South                  RA2

The Residential Low-Medium Density land use designation is characterized as follows:




The Ozzy Shepherd, LLC                                            App. # 2025-0156-USE
Home Occupation Conditional Use Request            2
According to Draper City Municipal Code (DCMC) Section 9-8-020 the purpose of the RA2
zone is to, “permit medium density residential development without special mitigation
requirements. This zone is intended to provide incentives to foster residential development
with little impact on its surroundings and on municipal services, and to generally preserve
the semirural character called for in the density element of the general plan.”

Home Occupation. The DCMC Section 9-34-040 outlines development standards applicable
to all home occupations. Those criteria, along with information specific to the subject
request, are as follows:

        A. Ownership: The home occupation shall be owned and operated by a person who
             resides in the dwelling where the home occupation is located. Such person shall
             be the primary provider of the labor, work, or service provided in the home
             occupation.

                 •   The applicant owns the business and resides at the dwelling (Exhibit H).

        B. Business License: A business license for the home occupation shall be obtained
             from and continually maintained with the city pursuant to title 6, chapter 11 of
             this code.

                 •   The applicant indicates that they will obtain and maintain a business
                     license with Draper City.

        C. Employees: Members of the family of the owner who reside in the dwelling may
             be employed in the home occupation. Nonfamily or nonresident employees
             shall be limited to one person.

                 •   The applicant is the only employee of the business (Exhibit H).

        D. Inspection: All facilities shall comply with fire, building, plumbing, electrical and
             all other city, county, state and federal codes. Inspections during reasonable
             hours by city officials may occur as necessary to assure compliance with
             regulations.

                 •   The applicant has agreed to comply with necessary inspections (Exhibit
                     H).

        E. Inventory: No stock in trade, inventory, or other merchandise to exceed two
             hundred fifty (250) square feet shall be kept on the premises. No outside storage
             is allowed.




The Ozzy Shepherd, LLC                                             App. # 2025-0156-USE
Home Occupation Conditional Use Request          3
                 •   The applicant indicates that that there is no outside storage and that the
                     total area of indoor storage and office space combined equates to 215 ft2
                     (Exhibits G & H).

        F. Modification Of Structures Or Yards: There shall be no visible evidence from the
             exterior of a dwelling that it is being used for any other purpose than that of a
             dwelling. No activities shall be carried on outside the dwelling in the yard for the
             benefit of or incidental to the home occupation. No front yard area shall be
             altered to provide parking required for a home occupation.

                 •   The applicant indicates that there will be a designated off-street parking
                     stall located in front of the third car garage for customer appointments.
                     (Exhibit H).

        G. Nuisance: Tools, items, equipment, or activities conducted within the dwelling
             which is offensive or noxious by reason of the emission of odor, smoke, gas,
             vibration, magnetic interference, or noise shall be prohibited.

                 •   The applicant indicates that the home occupation will not create
                     nuisances. (Exhibit H).

        H. Secondary Use: The home occupation shall be clearly incidental and secondary
             to the primary use of the dwelling for residential purposes. The home
             occupation shall not disrupt the normal residential character of the
             neighborhood in which the residence is located. Not more than twenty five
             percent (25%) of the dwelling unit shall be used for the home occupation.

                 •   The applicant indicates that the business will utilize 215 ft2 within the
                     dwelling for operating the home office and storing inventory, which is
                     approximately 4.5% of the dwelling total square footage. (Exhibits G & H).

        I.   Signs: All signage in a residential area must comply with chapter 26, "Signs", of
             this title.

                 •   The home occupation will not have any signage on the property (Exhibit
                     H).

        J.   Traffic, Parking, And Access: No home occupation use shall generate pedestrian,
             parking, or vehicular traffic in excess of that customarily associated with the
             zone in which the use is located. All parking shall be provided and maintained on
             site with adequate provision for drop off traffic.




The Ozzy Shepherd, LLC                                             App. # 2025-0156-USE
Home Occupation Conditional Use Request          4
                 •   The applicant indicates that there will be an off-street parking stall
                     located on the driveway and in front of the third car garage which is
                     designated for customers during their scheduled appointments (Exhibits
                     F, G & H).

        K. Vehicles: Other than the business owner's personal transportation, there shall
             be no vehicles or equipment on the property associated with the home
             occupation which would not normally be found at a residence. No signage for
             the home occupation shall be allowed on vehicles.

                 •   Customers will park their personal vehicles in front of the third car garage
                     during their scheduled appointments (Exhibit H).

        L. Yards: Yards surrounding the dwelling and accessory buildings shall not be used
             for any activities or storage of any materials associated with the home
             occupation.

                 •   There will not be any storage in the surrounding yards (Exhibit H).

        M. Customers: No customers allowed. Children accessing a limited daycare or
           limited preschool facility shall not be considered customers.

                 •   The applicant requests a deviation to this standard as customers will
                     come to the home. Details regarding customer appointments are
                     discussed later in this report (Exhibit H).

        N. Utility Demand: The home occupation shall not cause a demand for public
             utilities in excess of that necessarily and customarily provided for residential
             uses.

                 •   The applicant indicates that the business will not create additional utility
                     demands (Exhibit H).

        O. Main Structure: The home occupations shall be conducted, located, and
           contained within the primary structure on the property.

                 •   The applicant indicates that all aspects of the business will be conducted
                     within the home (Exhibit H).

        P. Single-Family And Multiple-Family Dwellings: Home occupations listed as
             permitted or conditional within this title may be permitted in a single-family or a
             multiple-family dwelling, subject to the standards found within this section and
             section 9-34-060 of this chapter. Businesses within multiple-family dwellings



The Ozzy Shepherd, LLC                                              App. # 2025-0156-USE
Home Occupation Conditional Use Request           5
             shall provide an approval letter from the respective homeowners' association, or
             management company in the case of apartments, if the business proposes any
             employees, customers or business vehicles.

                 •   The business is located within a single-family dwelling. Approval from an
                     HOA or management company is not required.

        Q. Licensure: Any home occupation involving childcare shall comply with all
             applicable state and local laws and regulations regarding residential childcare,
             including, but not limited to, provisions of the Utah child care licensing act, as set
             forth in Utah Code Annotated section 26-39-101 et seq., as amended, and the
             residential certificate childcare standards as set forth in the Utah administrative
             code section R430-50-1 et seq., as amended. In addition, cottage food
             production operations are regulated and inspected by the Utah department of
             agriculture. Any food related home occupation under their jurisdiction must
             comply with these regulations.

                 •   The home occupation does not involve child care or cottage food
                     production.

The applicant is requesting a deviation from criteria listed in DCMC 9-34-40 regarding
customers coming to the home. With the exception of firearms that must be picked up in
person, other items are primarily shipped direct to the consumer. A home occupation that
does not comply with the criteria may be established through a conditional use permit per
DCMC 9-34-060. The requirements and standards for approval of a Conditional Use Permit
are found in 9-5-080(E) of the DCMC. The reasonably anticipated detrimental effects related
to operating a home office with customers coming to the home is people coming and going
from the property and the potential vehicle traffic generated by customers and vehicles
parked on the street. In regards to this particular home occupation the potential for such
detrimental effects is mitigated by how the applicant operates the business. As described
in Exhibit H, the anticipated number of customer appointments in a single week is low,
between 5 and 10. Customers schedule their appointment online to pick up their orders
and go through the required background checks and paper work with the business owner
inside of the home. Appointments last approximately 30 minutes and are scheduled one at
a time during the hours of operation which are 9 a.m. to 2:30 p.m., Monday through
Thursday. An off-street parking stall is located on the driveway in front of the third car
garage.



Criteria for Approval.




The Ozzy Shepherd, LLC                                              App. # 2025-0156-USE
Home Occupation Conditional Use Request          6
The criteria for review and potential approval of a conditional use permit request is found
in Section 9-5-080(E) of the DCMC. This section depicts the standard of review for such
requests as:

        E. Approval Standards: The standards of this subsection shall apply to the issuance
            of a conditional use permit:
         1. A conditional use permit may be issued for a use to be located within a zone
            where the particular conditional use is allowed by the use regulations of the
            zone.
         2. Reasonable conditions may be imposed as necessary to substantially mitigate
            reasonably anticipated detrimental effects of the proposed use. These
            conditions may include conditions concerning use, construction, character,
            location, landscaping, screening, parking, hours of operation, and other matters
            relating to the purposes and objectives of this section. Such conditions shall be
            expressly set forth in the motion authorizing the conditional use permit.
         3. If the reasonably anticipated detrimental effects of a proposed conditional use
            cannot be substantially mitigated by the imposition of reasonable conditions to
            achieve compliance with applicable standards, the conditional use may be
            denied.
         4. The following factors shall be reviewed and considered in determining whether a
            conditional use permit application should be approved, approved with
            conditions, or denied because reasonable conditions cannot be imposed to
            achieve compliance with applicable standards:
              a. The harmony and compliance of the proposed use with the objectives and
                 requirements of the city's general plan and this title;
              b. The suitability of the specific property for the proposed use;
              c. Whether the proposed use or facility may be injurious to potential or existing
                 development in the vicinity;
              d. The economic impact of the proposed facility or use on the surrounding
                 area;
              e. The aesthetic impact of the proposed facility or use on the surrounding area;
              f. The safeguards proposed or provided to ensure adequate utilities,
                 transportation access, drainage, parking, loading space, lighting, screening,
                 landscaping, open space, fire protection, and pedestrian and vehicular
                 circulation;
              g. The safeguards provided or proposed to prevent noxious or offensive
                 emissions such as noise, glare, dust, pollutants and odor from the proposed
                 facility or use; and
              h. The impact of the proposed facility or use on the health, safety, and welfare
                 of the city, the area, and persons owning or leasing property in the area.
         5. The planning commission may request additional information as may be
            reasonably needed to determine whether the requirements of this subsection E
            can be met.



The Ozzy Shepherd, LLC                                           App. # 2025-0156-USE
Home Occupation Conditional Use Request        7
REVIEWS

Planning Division Review. The Draper City Planning Division has completed their review of
the Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit submission. Comments from this division, if
any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Engineering and Public Works Divisions Review. The Draper City Engineering and Public
Works Divisions have completed their reviews of the Home Occupation Conditional Use
Permit submission. Comments from these divisions, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Building Division Review. The Draper City Building Division has completed their review of
the Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit submission. Comments from this division, if
any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Fire Division Review. The Draper City Fire Marshal has completed his review of the Home
Occupation Conditional Use Permit submission. Comments from this division, if any, can
be found in Exhibit A.

Noticing. Notice has been properly issued in the manner outlined in the City and State
Codes.



STAFF RECOMMENDATION

Staff recommends that the Planning Commission review the request based on the findings
and the criteria for approval, or denial as listed within the staff report. The Planning
Commission should also review the request, hear from the applicant, and receive public
comment prior to making a decision.

If the Planning Commission decides to approve the request, staff recommends they include
the following conditions of approval:

    1. That all requirements of the Draper City Engineering, Public Works, Building,
       Planning, and Fire Divisions are satisfied.
    2. That a Draper City business license shall be obtained and maintained by the
       business owner for as long as the business remains in operation.
    3. That customer coming to the home shall be by appointment only.
    4. That there shall be only one customer at the subject property at a time.
    5. That one (1) off street parking stall shall be provided for the customer for the
       duration of their scheduled appointment.




The Ozzy Shepherd, LLC                                          App. # 2025-0156-USE
Home Occupation Conditional Use Request        8
MODEL MOTIONS AND FINDINGS

Sample Motion for Approval – I move that we approve the Home Occupation Conditional
Use Permit, as requested by Kim Mazzucchelli representing, The Ozzy Shepherd, LLC.
Application 2025-0156-USE, based on the following findings for approval and subject to the
conditions listed in the Staff Report dated October 31, 2025.

Findings for approval:

        1. The proposal complies with the standards for approval found in DCMC Section 9-
           5-080(E) and potential negative impacts are mitigated through the imposition of
           reasonable conditions.

I move that we approve the Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit, as requested by Kim
Mazzucchelli representing, The Ozzy Shepherd, LLC. Application 2025-0156-USE, based on
the findings for approval and subject to the conditions listed in the Staff Report dated
October 31, 2025 and as modified by the following additional findings or conditions:

        1. (List any additional findings…)
        2. (List any additional conditions…)

Sample Motion for Denial – I move that we deny the Home Occupation Conditional Use
Permit, as requested by Kim Mazzucchelli representing, The Ozzy Shepherd, LLC.
Application 2025-0156-USE, based on the following findings for denial listed in the Staff
Report dated October 31, 2025.

Findings for denial:

        1. The proposal does not comply with all standards for approval found in DCMC
           Section 9-5-080(E) and potential negative impacts are not able to be sufficiently
           mitigated through the imposition of reasonable conditions.




The Ozzy Shepherd, LLC                                          App. # 2025-0156-USE
Home Occupation Conditional Use Request        9
              DEVELOPMENT REVIEW COMMITTEE ACKNOWLEDGEMENT


We, the undersigned, as duly appointed members of the Draper City Development Review
Committee, do acknowledge that the application which provides the subject for this staff
report has been reviewed by the Committee and has been found to be appropriate for
review by the Draper City Planning Commission and/or City Council.
                                                                                                    OiQitally signed by Todd A.
                                                                                                    Draper
                   Digiia ^ s^nra by Br.cn M           ed                                           DN: C-US.
                   DN'C       US,                                                                   E-lodd.<lraRer@araper.ut.us.
                   6»tjt«tn miU- dff ojoct.ub oe»                             Todd A. Draper OaDreper City PCsnntng,
  Brien Maxfield   O-O.'apcr. OU- Pud.tC WorK:. ●                                                   CN>Todd A. Draper
                   Lngnuprirv) CN-Uncn M.in'iolo                                                    Date: 2025.11.OS
                   Oa'.c- 2         i.osoy ?o^t: q:q:>                                              I8fl4:02-07'00’


Draper City Public Works Department                                      Draper City Planning Division

                                                                                                I
                                        tv PonBoWy                                          r
                      Ctr           t -son «.«*!<■> i?3rJan i.’4i de>,

3on Buckley           O-Oiapii r.ty 1'«>- IX'sAn-t'imt, (JU-I iti-
                      WiViS'
                      DSM-JCJS 11 £S0>;5 it C7:;



Draper City Fire Department                                              Draper City Legal (^6urfe?T ^


 Matthew Symes ™                        u   t
                                                            ●Vi




Draper City Building Division
                                     EXHIBIT A
                                DEPARTMENT REVIEWS

REVIEWS ARE NOT MEANT TO BE AN ALL-INCLUSIVE LIST OF POSSIBLE COMMENTS OR
CONDITIONS.



Planning Division Review.

       1.     No Additional Comments

Engineering and Public Works Divisions Review.

       1.     No Additional Comments

Building Division Review.

       1.     No Additional Comments

Fire Division Review.

       1.     No Additional Comments
  EXHIBIT B
VICINITY MAP
 EXHIBIT C
AERIAL MAP
  EXHIBIT D
LAND USE MAP
 EXHIBIT E
ZONING MAP
EXHIBIT F
SITE PLAN
Aerial & Steet View Site Plan 13034 Mountain Crest Cir,
Draper:
  EXHIBIT G
FLOOR PLANS
      EXHIBIT H
APPLICANT STATEMENTS
Business Description & Site Layout
The Ozzy Shepherd LLC
13034 Mountain Crest Cir, Draper, Utah, USA, 84020

Online Shop: The Ozzy Shepherd, our mission is to provide our customers with the highest
quality products at affordable prices. We believe that everyone should have access to the
quality products to meet a market need and showcase the best from Australia. We offer a
wide range of the best quality Australian products to meet the diverse needs of our
customers. From Quality Australian Icons to Bespoke Australian Products, all in which we
personally use and can stand behind.
In addition to the Online Retail, major contracts for Federal, State and Local Government
contracts both USA and Australia are being tendered for in multiple categories including
defense and police contracts for ﬁrearms requiring FFL ATF restricted items. FFL transfers
for Firearms to the general public will also be a service that will be provided and the only
customer interface that will occur at the property.

Our Values At The Ozzy Shepherd, we are committed to operating with integrity, honesty,
and transparency bringing with us the hardworking Australian values. We believe in treating
our customers, partners and employees with respect , and always strive to do what is
right. We acknowledge all First Peoples of Australia and celebrate their enduring
connections to Country. We give our respects to Elders who guide Aboriginal and Torres
Strait Islander community.

   1. Services Provided at 13034 Mountain Crest Cir, Draper, Utah
         a. FFL and ATF NFA Transfers for qualifying public and service personnel
                  i. Customers by Appointment only – Schedule tool to built into the
                     existing Website www.theozzyshepherd.com
                 ii. Appointment for 30 minutes slots
                iii. Operating Hours
                         1. Monday to Thursday – 0900 – 1430
                iv. Anticipated Customers per week 5 – 10
                 v. Completing FFL transfers and/or ATF NFA transfers with the service
                     open to qualifying customers
                vi. Parking will be off street on the Driveway in front of the 3rd Garage
               vii. All business activities are physically separated from the main dwelling
Please explain how you will meet the standards listed below. If it does not apply
explain why (N/A is not a valid response). If you do not meet the standard, identify
that and explain how you intend to mitigate the impact.
9-34-040: DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS; PERMITTED USE:
The development standards set forth in this section shall apply to any home occupation
allowed as a permitted use:
A. Ownership: The home occupation shall be owned and operated by a person who
resides in the dwelling where the home occupation is located. Such person shall be the
primary provider of the labor, work, or service provided in the home occupation.
   •   13034 Mountain Crest Cir, Draper, Utah, 84020 is owned and occupied by my
       Wife & I along with our 2 children
B. Business License: A business license for the home occupation shall be obtained
from and continually maintained with the city pursuant to title 6, chapter 11 of this code.
   •   Yes – See Business Registration for the State of Utah for further information
   •   All required business licenses will be maintained
C. Employees: Members of the family of the owner who reside in the dwelling may be
employed in the home occupation. Nonfamily or nonresident employees shall be limited
to one person.
   •   Kim Mazzucchelli (Member) of The Ozzy Shepherd LLC is currently the only
       person involved in the LLC
D. Inspection: All facilities shall comply with fire, building, plumbing, electrical and all
other city, county, state and federal codes. Inspections during reasonable hours by city
officials may occur as necessary to assure compliance with regulations.
   •   All facilities comply to standards. The property was only purchased in December
       2024 and a complete building inspection was conducted prior to sale to ensure
       compliance. Will comply with any additional required inspections.
E. Inventory: No stock in trade, inventory, or other merchandise to exceed two hundred
fifty (250) square feet shall be kept on the premises. No outside storage is allowed.
(Ord. 909, 7-21-2009)
   •   No stock or merchandise will exceed 250 square feet – see attached Floor Plan
   •   The total area of storage and office space equates to 215 square feet
   •   No storage or operations to be conducted outside of designated residence
F. Modification Of Structures Or Yards: There shall be no visible evidence from the
exterior of a dwelling that it is being used for any other purpose than that of a dwelling.
No activities shall be carried on outside the dwelling in the yard for the benefit of or
incidental to the home occupation. No front yard area shall be altered to provide parking
required for a home occupation. (Ord. 1132, 2-17-2015)
   •   No modifications or indication that the premises is used for any purpose other
       than a dwelling see photo below:




       Note: Northern third car driveway to be designated for customer parking,
       customers will be advised of Traffic Management Plan (TMP)
G. Nuisance: Tools, items, equipment, or activities conducted within the dwelling which
is offensive or noxious by reason of the emission of odor, smoke, gas, vibration,
magnetic interference, or noise shall be prohibited.
   •   No Nuisance will be caused
H. Secondary Use: The home occupation shall be clearly incidental and secondary to
the primary use of the dwelling for residential purposes. The home occupation shall not
disrupt the normal residential character of the neighborhood in which the residence is
located. Not more than twenty five percent (25%) of the dwelling unit shall be used for
the home occupation.
   •   Less than 25% of the dwelling will be used for business purposes – see attached
       layout
   •   The total area of the dwelling is 4857 square feet
   •   Total percentage for secondary use of 215 square feet = 4.5%
I. Signs: All signage in a residential area must comply with chapter 26, "Signs", of this
title.
   •   No signage intended to be installed
J. Traffic, Parking, And Access: No home occupation use shall generate pedestrian,
parking, or vehicular traffic in excess of that customarily associated with the zone in
which the use is located. All parking shall be provided and maintained on site with
adequate provision for drop off traffic.




   •
   •   Designated Customer Parking & Loading Zone
   •   Customer attendance by appointment only

K. Vehicles: Other than the business owner's personal transportation, there shall be no
vehicles or equipment on the property associated with the home occupation which
would not normally be found at a residence. No signage for the home occupation shall
be allowed on vehicles.
   •   No personal vehicles have advertising or marketing decals or other
L. Yards: Yards surrounding the dwelling and accessory buildings shall not be used for
any activities or storage of any materials associated with the home occupation.
   •   No Yards or surrounding areas of the dwelling will be used
M. Customers: No customers allowed. Children accessing a limited daycare or limited
preschool facility shall not be considered customers.
   •   No customers will be allowed to access any other area than the designated office
       space
   •   Customer attendance by appointment only
N. Utility Demand: The home occupation shall not cause a demand for public utilities in
excess of that necessarily and customarily provided for residential uses.
   •   No additional demand will be placed on any Public Utilities
O. Main Structure: The home occupations shall be conducted, located, and contained
within the primary structure on the property. (Ord. 909, 7-21-2009)
   •   Occupations will only be conducted within the primary structure – see attached
       layout
P. Single-Family And Multiple-Family Dwellings: Home occupations listed as permitted
or conditional within this title may be permitted in a single-family or a multiple-family
dwelling, subject to the standards found within this section and section 9-34-060 of this
chapter. Businesses within multiple-family dwellings shall provide an approval letter
from the respective homeowners' association, or management company in the case of
apartments, if the business proposes any employees, customers or business vehicles.
(Ord. 1132, 2-17-2015)
   •   Single -family dwelling only
Q. Licensure: Any home occupation involving childcare shall comply with all applicable
state and local laws and regulations regarding residential childcare, including, but not
limited to, provisions of the Utah child care licensing act, as set forth in Utah Code
Annotated section 26-39-101 et seq., as amended, and the residential certificate
childcare standards as set forth in the Utah administrative code section R430-50-1 et
seq., as amended. In addition, cottage food production operations are regulated and
inspected by the Utah department of agriculture. Any food related home occupation
under their jurisdiction must comply with these regulations. (Ord. 909, 7-21-2009)
   •   No childcare, agriculture or food activities will be conducted




Please answer the questions below. You must explain how your proposal will
meet the standards listed below. If it does not apply explain why (N/A is not a
valid response).
   Helpful resources and relevant information can be found in the following links
   •   the general plan can be accessed by following this link:
       https://www.draperutah.gov/media/x1wekkss/draper-city-general-plan-v2024.pdf)

   •   Title 9 (Land Use And Development Regulations) of The Draper City Code can be accessed
       by following this link:
       https://codelibrary.amlegal.com/codes/draperut/latest/draper_ut/0-0-0-29634

   •   Draper City Zoning maps can be accessed by following this link:
       https://experience.arcgis.com/experience/601a6dd2a14c4739a90f4eac930a9528
PLEASE PROVIDE YOUR ANSWER(S) AT THE BULLET POINT LOCATED BELOW EACH SECTION

9-5-080(E:4) CONDITIONAL USE PERMITS
The following factors shall be reviewed and considered in determining whether a
conditional use permit application should be approved, approved with conditions, or
denied because reasonable conditions cannot be imposed to achieve compliance with
applicable standards:
a. The harmony and compliance of the proposed use with the objectives and
requirements of the city's general plan and this title;
   •   Primary activities are focused around Major Contracts through local, state and
       federal agencies that require no customers to attend the resindence.
   •   Where customers are required to attend the premises in person there is a
       designated off street parking on the North third car garage
   •   All business activities with customers will be conducted within the dwelling in my
       office (1 room of the house)
   •   All storage of materials will only be kept in the designated areas less than 250
       square feet and 25% of the dwelling – 215 square feet of Office and Storage
       space which equates to 4.5% of the total 4857 square feet.
   •   Customer attendance by appointment only

b. The suitability of the specific property for the proposed use;
   •   The property has all the requirements to support being primarily a family dwelling
       with the secondary purpose of conducting business activities.
   •   The dwelling is a total of 4857 square feet
   •   The property supports off street customer parking
   •   Customer traffic is not intended to be high
   •   Appropriate scheduling for customers to attend in-person
   •   Customer attendance by appointment only

c. Whether the proposed use or facility may be injurious to potential or existing
development in the vicinity;
   •   No impact to development will be caused
d. The economic impact of the proposed facility or use on the surrounding area;
   •   No economic impact to the facility or surrounding facility will occur
e. The aesthetic impact of the proposed facility or use on the surrounding area;
   •   No aesthetic impact to the facility or surrounding area will occur
f. The safeguards proposed or provided to ensure adequate utilities, transportation
access, drainage, parking, loading space, lighting, screening, landscaping, open space,
fire protection, and pedestrian and vehicular circulation;
   •   Designated off-street parking
   •   Scheduling customer visitation
   •   Low frequency of in-person customers intended
   •   No impact to Utilities in the area
   •   Drainage will not be impacted
   •   Parking and Loading Space will be designated through and in front of the
       Northern third car garage
   •   Exterior house lighting both sensor and switch
   •   No additional screening required
   •   Smoke Alarms, Fire Extinguishers & Fire Blankets
   •   The sidewalk will not be obstructed at any time
   •   Customer attendance by appointment only


g. The safeguards provided or proposed to prevent noxious or offensive emissions
such as noise, glare, dust, pollutants and odor from the proposed facility or use;
   •   No noxious or offensive emissions will be caused
h. The impact of the proposed facility or use on the health, safety, and welfare of the
city, the area, and persons owning or leasing property in the area.
   •   The business activities being conducted pose no adverse impact to the health,
       safety, and welfare of the city, the area, and persons owning or leasing property
       in the area
