                                  Development Review Committee
                                      1020 East Pioneer Road
                                        Draper, UT 84020
                                             December 1, 2025

To:              Draper City Planning Commission
                 Business Date: December 11, 2025

From:            Development Review Committee

Prepared By: Nick Whittaker, MCMP, Planner II
             Planning Division
             Community Development Department
             801-576-6522, Nick.Whittaker@draperutah.gov

Re:     Tamed Beauty, LLC. – Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit Request
        Application No.: 2025-0214-USE
        Applicant:        Marissa Lacanienta, representing Tamed Beauty, LLC.
        Project Location: 182 E. Daisyfield Dr.
        Current Zoning: R3 (Single-Family Residential) Zone
        Acreage:          0.01 Acres (Approximately 4,356 ft2)
        Request:          Request for approval of a Conditional Use Permit to operate a
                          Home Occupation that provides personal care services.



BACKGROUND AND SUMMARY

This application is a request for approval of a Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit for
approximately 0.01 acres located on the south side of Daisyfield Dr. at approximately 182
E. Daisyfield Dr. (Exhibit C). The property is currently zoned R3. The applicant is requesting
that a Conditional Use Permit be approved to allow for a Home Occupation to operate a
personal care service esthetics salon.

The property is Unit 1040 of the Fields At Draper Condominiums, Phase 2. The
condominium on the property was built in 1998.



ANALYSIS

General Plan and Zoning.



Tamed Beauty, LLC.                                                    App. # 2025-0214-USE
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit Request      1
 Table 1                   General Plan and Zoning Designations                  Exhibit
 Existing Land Use         Residential High Density                              Exhibit E
 Current Zoning            R3                                                    Exhibit F
 Proposed Use              Personal Care Service
 Adjacent Zoning
    East                   R3
    West                   R3
    North                  R3
    South                  R3

The Residential High Density land use designation is characterized as follows:




According to the Draper City Municipal Code (DCMC) Section 9-8-020(B)(3), the purpose of
the R3 zone is to, “permit medium density residential development without special
mitigation requirements. This zone is intended to provide incentives to foster residential
development with little impact on its surroundings and on municipal services, and to
generally preserve the semirural character called for in the density element of the general
plan.”




Tamed Beauty, LLC.                                                  App. # 2025-0214-USE
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit Request   2
Home Occupation. The DCMC Section 9-34-040 outlines development standards applicable
to all home occupations. Those criteria, along with information specific to the subject
request, are as follows:

        A. Ownership: The home occupation shall be owned and operated by a person who
           resides in the dwelling where the home occupation is located. Such person shall
           be the primary provider of the labor, work, or service provided in the home
           occupation.

                 •    The applicant has indicated that they own and operate Tamed Beauty,
                      LLC. and are also reside at the subject property.

        B. Business License: A business license for the home occupation shall be obtained
           from and continually maintained with the city pursuant to title 6, chapter 11 of
           this code.

                 •    The applicant has submitted an application for a business license which is
                      pending the approval of this Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit
                      Request.

        C. Employees: Members of the family of the owner who reside in the dwelling may
           be employed in the home occupation. Nonfamily or nonresident employees
           shall be limited to one person.

                 •    The applicant has indicated that they are the only employee of the
                      business and that there is no one else employed in the home occupation.

        D. Inspection: All facilities shall comply with fire, building, plumbing, electrical and
           all other city, county, state and federal codes. Inspections during reasonable
           hours by city officials may occur as necessary to assure compliance with
           regulations.

                 •    The applicant has indicated that they will comply with applicable
                      inspections.

        E. Inventory: No stock in trade, inventory, or other merchandise to exceed two
           hundred fifty (250) square feet shall be kept on the premises. No outside storage
           is allowed.

                 •    The applicant has indicated that they do not have any inventory, stock or
                      merchandise exceeding two hundred fifty (250) square feet on the
                      premises and do not have any outside storage.




Tamed Beauty, LLC.                                                       App. # 2025-0214-USE
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit Request    3
        F. Modification Of Structures Or Yards: There shall be no visible evidence from the
           exterior of a dwelling that it is being used for any other purpose than that of a
           dwelling. No activities shall be carried on outside the dwelling in the yard for the
           benefit of or incidental to the home occupation. No front yard area shall be
           altered to provide parking required for a home occupation.

                 •    No modifications of the structure or yard have been or will be made for
                      the business (Exhibit H).
                 •    Customers will park their vehicles on the existing driveway for the unit
                      (Exhibits F & H).

        G. Nuisance: Tools, items, equipment, or activities conducted within the dwelling
           which is offensive or noxious by reason of the emission of odor, smoke, gas,
           vibration, magnetic interference, or noise shall be prohibited.

                 •    The applicant has indicated that the business will not create any of the
                      prohibited nuisances listed in ordinance.

        H. Secondary Use: The home occupation shall be clearly incidental and secondary
           to the primary use of the dwelling for residential purposes. The home
           occupation shall not disrupt the normal residential character of the
           neighborhood in which the residence is located. Not more than twenty five
           percent (25%) of the dwelling unit shall be used for the home occupation.

                 •    The space used for the home occupation, including the inventory storage
                      space, is approximately 120 ft2 which is 10% of the dwelling unit (Exhibit
                      H).

        I.   Signs: All signage in a residential area must comply with chapter 26, "Signs", of
             this title.

                 •    There are no signs being used or proposed.

        J.   Traffic, Parking, And Access: No home occupation use shall generate pedestrian,
             parking, or vehicular traffic in excess of that customarily associated with the
             zone in which the use is located. All parking shall be provided and maintained on
             site with adequate provision for drop off traffic.

                 •    The applicant indicates that one (1) off street parking stall is provided for
                      the use of customers (Exhibits F & H.

        K. Vehicles: Other than the business owner's personal transportation, there shall
           be no vehicles or equipment on the property associated with the home



Tamed Beauty, LLC.                                                         App. # 2025-0214-USE
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit Request     4
             occupation which would not normally be found at a residence. No signage for
             the home occupation shall be allowed on vehicles.

                 •    The applicant has indicated that there are no vehicles or equipment
                      associated with the home occupation.

        L. Yards: Yards surrounding the dwelling and accessory buildings shall not be used
           for any activities or storage of any materials associated with the home
           occupation.

                 •    The applicant has indicated that the yard will not be used for any
                      business activities nor storage.

        M. Customers: No customers allowed. Children accessing a limited daycare or
           limited preschool facility shall not be considered customers.

                 •    The applicant is requesting a deviation from this standard in order to
                      allow customers to come to the home to receive services (Exhibit H).

        N. Utility Demand: The home occupation shall not cause a demand for public
           utilities in excess of that necessarily and customarily provided for residential
           uses.

                 •    The applicant has indicated that the home occupation will not cause an
                      excessive demand for public utilities above that necessarily and
                      customarily provided for residential uses.

        O. Main Structure: The home occupations shall be conducted, located, and
           contained within the primary structure on the property.

                 •    The home occupation is conducted entirely inside of the primary
                      structure within a spare bedroom (Exhibit H).

        P. Single-Family And Multiple-Family Dwellings: Home occupations listed as
           permitted or conditional within this title may be permitted in a single-family or a
           multiple-family dwelling, subject to the standards found within this section and
           section 9-34-060 of this chapter. Businesses within multiple-family dwellings
           shall provide an approval letter from the respective homeowners' association, or
           management company in the case of apartments, if the business proposes any
           employees, customers or business vehicles.

                 •    The applicant indicates that the Home Occupation is located in a multiple-
                      family dwelling and that they will obtain an approval letter from the HOA



Tamed Beauty, LLC.                                                       App. # 2025-0214-USE
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit Request    5
                      (Exhibit H). A condition of approval has been included in the
                      recommendations section of this report.

        Q. Licensure: Any home occupation involving childcare shall comply with all
           applicable state and local laws and regulations regarding residential childcare,
           including, but not limited to, provisions of the Utah child care licensing act, as set
           forth in Utah Code Annotated section 26-39-101 et seq., as amended, and the
           residential certificate childcare standards as set forth in the Utah administrative
           code section R430-50-1 et seq., as amended. In addition, cottage food
           production operations are regulated and inspected by the Utah department of
           agriculture. Any food related home occupation under their jurisdiction must
           comply with these regulations.

                 •    The home occupation does not provide childcare nor is it engaged in food
                      production.

The applicant is requesting a deviation from criteria listed in DCMC 9-34-40 regarding
customers coming to the home. A home occupation that does not comply with the criteria
may be established through a conditional use permit per DCMC 9-34-060. The reasonably
anticipated detrimental effects related to operating a Person Care Service with customers
coming to the home is people coming and going from the property and the potential
vehicle traffic generated by customers and vehicles parked on the street. In regards to this
particular home occupation, the potential for such detrimental effects is mitigated by how
the applicant operates the business. As described in Exhibit H, the anticipated number of
customer appointments in a single day is between 2 and 6 customers. Customers schedule
their appointment online for a session which is no longer than 60 minutes. Appointments
are scheduled one at a time with lead time in between appointments to prevent customers
arriving before the previous customer has left the property. Business is conducted only
during the hours of operation which are 8 a.m. to 8 p.m., Monday through Saturday. An off-
street parking stall is located on the driveway in front of the applicant’s garage. Though the
proposed parking stall prohibits access to the garage during business hours, the only
resident vehicle which utilizes the garage is the applicant’s.



Criteria For Approval.
The criteria for review and potential approval of a home occupation conditional use permit
request are found in Section 9-5-080(E) of the DCMC. This section depicts the standard of
review for such requests as:

        E. Approval Standards: The standards of this subsection shall apply to the issuance
            of a conditional use permit:




Tamed Beauty, LLC.                                                       App. # 2025-0214-USE
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit Request    6
          1. A conditional use permit may be issued for a use to be located within a zone
             where the particular conditional use is allowed by the use regulations of the
             zone.
          2. Reasonable conditions may be imposed as necessary to substantially mitigate
             reasonably anticipated detrimental effects of the proposed use. These
             conditions may include conditions concerning use, construction, character,
             location, landscaping, screening, parking, hours of operation, and other matters
             relating to the purposes and objectives of this section. Such conditions shall be
             expressly set forth in the motion authorizing the conditional use permit.
          3. If the reasonably anticipated detrimental effects of a proposed conditional use
             cannot be substantially mitigated by the imposition of reasonable conditions to
             achieve compliance with applicable standards, the conditional use may be
             denied.
          4. The following factors shall be reviewed and considered in determining whether a
             conditional use permit application should be approved, approved with
             conditions, or denied because reasonable conditions cannot be imposed to
             achieve compliance with applicable standards:
               a. The harmony and compliance of the proposed use with the objectives and
                  requirements of the city's general plan and this title;
               b. The suitability of the specific property for the proposed use;
               c. Whether the proposed use or facility may be injurious to potential or existing
                  development in the vicinity;
               d. The economic impact of the proposed facility or use on the surrounding
                  area;
               e. The aesthetic impact of the proposed facility or use on the surrounding area;
               f. The safeguards proposed or provided to ensure adequate utilities,
                  transportation access, drainage, parking, loading space, lighting, screening,
                  landscaping, open space, fire protection, and pedestrian and vehicular
                  circulation;
               g. The safeguards provided or proposed to prevent noxious or offensive
                  emissions such as noise, glare, dust, pollutants and odor from the proposed
                  facility or use; and
               h. The impact of the proposed facility or use on the health, safety, and welfare
                  of the city, the area, and persons owning or leasing property in the area.
          5. The planning commission may request additional information as may be
             reasonably needed to determine whether the requirements of this subsection E
             can be met.

Staff believes that the potential detrimental effects related to parking, traffic, customers
coming to the home and hours of operation can be mitigated by the applicant’s proposed
mitigation measures and has incorporated them into the suggested conditions for
approval.




Tamed Beauty, LLC.                                                     App. # 2025-0214-USE
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit Request   7
REVIEWS

Planning Division Review. The Draper City Planning Division has completed their review of
the Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit Request submission. Comments from this
division, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Engineering and Public Works Divisions Review. The Draper City Engineering and Public
Works Divisions have completed their reviews of the Home Occupation Conditional Use
Permit Request submission. Comments from these divisions, if any, can be found in Exhibit
A.

Building Division Review. The Draper City Building Division has completed their review of
the Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit Request submission. Comments from this
division, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Fire Division Review. The Draper City Fire Marshal has completed his review of the Home
Occupation Conditional Use Permit Request submission. Comments from this division, if
any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Noticing. Notice has been properly issued in the manner outlined in the City and State
Codes.



STAFF RECOMMENDATION

Staff recommends that the Planning Commission review the request based on the findings
listed below and the criteria for approval, or denial as listed within the staff report. The
Planning Commission should also review the request, hear from the applicant, and receive
public comment prior to making a decision.

If the Planning Commission decides to approve the request, staff recommends they include
the following conditions of approval:

         1.      That all requirements of the Draper City Engineering, Public Works, Building,
                 Planning, and Fire Divisions are satisfied.
         2.      That a Draper City business license shall be obtained and maintained by the
                 business owner for as long as the business remains in operation.
         3.      That the applicant shall obtain a letter of approval from their respective HOA
                 representative prior to issuance of a business license.
         4.      That only one (1) customer at a time shall receive services at the subject
                 property.
         5.      That all customer appointments shall be scheduled in advance and that



Tamed Beauty, LLC.                                                     App. # 2025-0214-USE
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit Request   8
                 unscheduled walk-in customers shall not be permitted.
        6.       Appointments shall be scheduled so as to provide an adequate break or lead
                 time between customers.
        7.       That one (1) off-street parking stall shall be provided for the customers of the
                 business in the location shown on the approved site plan.
        8.       That the hours of operation be limited to between 8:00 am to 8:00 pm,
                 Monday through Saturday.



MODEL MOTIONS AND FINDINGS

Sample Motion for Approval – I move that we approve the Home Occupation Conditional
Use Permit, as requested by Marissa Lacanienta, representing Tamed Beauty, LLC.
application 2025-0214-USE, based on the following findings for approval and subject to the
conditions listed in the Staff Report dated December 1, 2025.

Findings for approval:

        1. The proposal complies with the standards for approval found in DCMC Section 9-
           5-080(E) and potential negative impacts are mitigated through the imposition of
           reasonable conditions.

I move that we approve the Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit, as requested by
Marissa Lacanienta, representing Tamed Beauty, LLC. application 2025-0214-USE, based on
the following findings for approval and subject to the conditions listed in the Staff Report
dated December 1, 2025 and as modified by the following additional findings or conditions:

        1. List any additional findings…
        2. List any additional conditions…

Sample Motion for Denial – I move that we deny the Home Occupation Conditional Use
Permit, as requested by Marissa Lacanienta, representing Tamed Beauty, LLC. application
2025-0214-USE, based on the following findings and the criteria for denial as listed in the
Staff Report dated December 1, 2025.

Findings for denial:

        1. The proposal does not comply with all standards for approval found in DCMC
           Section 9-5-080(E) and potential negative impacts are not able to be sufficiently
           mitigated through the imposition of reasonable conditions.




Tamed Beauty, LLC.                                                      App. # 2025-0214-USE
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit Request   9
                DEVELOPMENT REVIEW COMMITTEE ACKNOWLEDGEMENT


We, the undersigned, as duly appointed members of the Draper City Development Review
Committee, do acknowledge that the application which provides the subject for this staff
report has been reviewed by the Committee and has been found to be appropriate for
review by the Draper City Planning Commission and/or City Council.

                                                                                                      by Todb Draocr
                                                                                        ON; C*US.
                      Diottty Signed Dy Brien Max^ekJ
                                                                                        0*Drap«r Cfcy Convnunfy
                                                                    Todd Draper 01l«Ptaonir>g and Zormp
                      ON C-US.
                                                                                        Development Depanment.
   Brien Maxfield O-Ora^, OU’^w^oiVs                     '                              CNaTodd Oapc'
                      Engineering. CN°Bnen Maarieia                                     Date: 202S.12.08 OdaSiSd-oroo'
                      Dal*: 2025 12.04 13J3:01 0700'



Draper City Public Works Department                             Draper City Planning Division

                       Digitally signed by Don Buckley
                       DN: CaUS, Eadon buchleyi^araper.ut.us.

Don Buckley            OaOraper City Fire Department, OU*Fire
                       Marshal, CN-Don Buckley
                       Dale: 2025.12.04 14:52:30-0700'

Draper City Fire Department                                      raper City^tegal Co^se'

                     Oigrially srgned by Man Symes
                     ON: C-US.


Matt Symes           E«Man.symes@drapenitah gov, 0-Draoer
                     City Coipor.allon, CN>Matt Symes
                     Dale: 8025.12.05 08:43;06-07'00'



Draper City Building Division




                                                                              /
                                     EXHIBIT A
                                DEPARTMENT REVIEWS

REVIEWS ARE NOT MEANT TO BE AN ALL INCLUSIVE LIST OF POSSIBLE COMMENTS OR
CONDITIONS.



Planning Division Review.

       1.     No additional comments.

Engineering and Public Works Divisions Review.

       1.     No additional comments.

Building Division Review.

       1.     No additional Comments.

Fire Division Review.

       1.     No additional comments.
  EXHIBIT B
VICINITY MAP
 EXHIBIT C
AERIAL MAP
  EXHIBIT D
LAND USE MAP
 EXHIBIT E
ZONING MAP
EXHIBIT F
SITE PLAN
 EXHIBIT G
FLOOR PLAN
      EXHIBIT H
APPLICANT STATEMENTS
Please explain how you will meet the standards listed below. If it does not apply
explain why (N/A is not a valid response). If you do not meet the standard, identify
that and explain how you intend to mitigate the impact.
9-34-040: DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS; PERMITTED USE:
The development standards set forth in this section shall apply to any home occupation
allowed as a permitted use:
A. Ownership: The home occupation shall be owned and operated by a person who
resides in the dwelling where the home occupation is located. Such person shall be the
primary provider of the labor, work, or service provided in the home occupation.
   ● I, the owner of the business, reside in the home and will be operating there.
B. Business License: A business license for the home occupation shall be obtained
from and continually maintained with the city pursuant to title 6, chapter 11 of this code.
   ● I have already completed an application for a business license in Draper City and
     am waiting for approval.
C. Employees: Members of the family of the owner who reside in the dwelling may be
employed in the home occupation. Nonfamily or nonresident employees shall be limited
to one person.
   ● I will be operating as a solo esthetician and will not be hiring any additional
     employees.
D. Inspection: All facilities shall comply with fire, building, plumbing, electrical and all
other city, county, state and federal codes. Inspections during reasonable hours by city
officials may occur as necessary to assure compliance with regulations.
   ● Health and fire inspection have been completed.
E. Inventory: No stock in trade, inventory, or other merchandise to exceed two hundred
fifty (250) square feet shall be kept on the premises. No outside storage is allowed.
(Ord. 909, 7-21-2009)
   ● Inventory is kept in the same room where the home occupation is and will not
     exceed the space of a small closet.
F. Modification Of Structures Or Yards: There shall be no visible evidence from the
exterior of a dwelling that it is being used for any other purpose than that of a dwelling.
No activities shall be carried on outside the dwelling in the yard for the benefit of or
incidental to the home occupation. No front yard area shall be altered to provide parking
required for a home occupation. (Ord. 1132, 2-17-2015)
   ● There will be no modification or alteration of the front yard.
G. Nuisance: Tools, items, equipment, or activities conducted within the dwelling which
is offensive or noxious by reason of the emission of odor, smoke, gas, vibration,
magnetic interference, or noise shall be prohibited.
   ● With the business being a spa/salon, services are quiet and will not give off any
     odor, smoke, gas or noise.
H. Secondary Use: The home occupation shall be clearly incidental and secondary to
the primary use of the dwelling for residential purposes. The home occupation shall not
disrupt the normal residential character of the neighborhood in which the residence is
located. Not more than twenty five percent (25%) of the dwelling unit shall be used for
the home occupation.
   ● The home occupation operates in one small bedroom that is 120 square feet
     which includes the small inventory storage area. It will not disrupt the character of
     the neighborhood as it is run inside the home.
I. Signs: All signage in a residential area must comply with chapter 26, "Signs", of this
title.
   ● I will comply with any signage laws if I decide to have any. But as for now, I do
     not need any signs.
J. Traffic, Parking, And Access: No home occupation use shall generate pedestrian,
parking, or vehicular traffic in excess of that customarily associated with the zone in
which the use is located. All parking shall be provided and maintained on site with
adequate provision for drop off traffic.
   ● Business will only have one customer at a time with parking provided in the
     driveway while my car is parked in the garage. I anticipate 2-6 clients spread
     throughout the day, this will ensure no excess traffic or parking in the
     neighborhood.
K. Vehicles: Other than the business owner's personal transportation, there shall be no
vehicles or equipment on the property associated with the home occupation which
would not normally be found at a residence. No signage for the home occupation shall
be allowed on vehicles.
   ● I do not and will not have any additional business vehicles, only my own personal
     transportation.
L. Yards: Yards surrounding the dwelling and accessory buildings shall not be used for
any activities or storage of any materials associated with the home occupation.
   ● No storage or use of the yard will need to be used for the home occupation
M. Customers: No customers allowed. Children accessing a limited daycare or limited
preschool facility shall not be considered customers.
   ● There will be customers coming into the home occupation. I intend to mitigate the
     impact by only having one customer at a time to keep from impacting traffic,
     parking will be provided in the driveway so that no additional parking spots are
       taken in the neighborhood, and giving ample time between clients so there is no
       back up. Services offered to customers are quiet and will in no way disrupt the
       neighborhood. Appointments last between 20 and 60 minutes between 8 AM and
       PM. Monday through Saturday.
N. Utility Demand: The home occupation shall not cause a demand for public utilities in
excess of that necessarily and customarily provided for residential uses.
   ● Utilities will not exceed those of normal residential uses.
O. Main Structure: The home occupations shall be conducted, located, and contained
within the primary structure on the property. (Ord. 909, 7-21-2009)
   ● The home occupation is conducted inside the home
P. Single-Family And Multiple-Family Dwellings: Home occupations listed as permitted
or conditional within this title may be permitted in a single-family or a multiple-family
dwelling, subject to the standards found within this section and section 9-34-060 of this
chapter. Businesses within multiple-family dwellings shall provide an approval letter
from the respective homeowners' association, or management company in the case of
apartments, if the business proposes any employees, customers or business vehicles.
(Ord. 1132, 2-17-2015)
   ● If home occupation gets approved for licensing, I will get an approval letter from
     the HOA. If it is needed before then, I will reach out and get their approval.
Q. Licensure: Any home occupation involving childcare shall comply with all applicable
state and local laws and regulations regarding residential childcare, including, but not
limited to, provisions of the Utah child care licensing act, as set forth in Utah Code
Annotated section 26-39-101 et seq., as amended, and the residential certificate
childcare standards as set forth in the Utah administrative code section R430-50-1 et
seq., as amended. In addition, cottage food production operations are regulated and
inspected by the Utah department of agriculture. Any food related home occupation
under their jurisdiction must comply with these regulations. (Ord. 909, 7-21-2009)
   ● Childcare will not be provided with this home occupation.




Please answer the questions below. You must explain how your proposal will
meet the standards listed below. If it does not apply explain why (N/A is not a
valid response).
   Helpful resources and relevant information can be found in the following links
   ●   the general plan can be accessed by following this link:
       https://www.draperutah.gov/media/x1wekkss/draper-city-general-plan-v2024.pdf)

   ●   Title 9 (Land Use And Development Regulations) of The Draper City Code can be accessed
       by following this link:
       https://codelibrary.amlegal.com/codes/draperut/latest/draper_ut/0-0-0-29634
   ●   Draper City Zoning maps can be accessed by following this link:
       https://experience.arcgis.com/experience/601a6dd2a14c4739a90f4eac930a9528



PLEASE PROVIDE YOUR ANSWER(S) AT THE BULLET POINT LOCATED BELOW EACH SECTION

9-5-080(E:4) CONDITIONAL USE PERMITS
The following factors shall be reviewed and considered in determining whether a
conditional use permit application should be approved, approved with conditions, or
denied because reasonable conditions cannot be imposed to achieve compliance with
applicable standards:
a. The harmony and compliance of the proposed use with the objectives and
requirements of the city's general plan and this title;
   ● The business will comply with all city laws/plans and will not disrupt the harmony
     of the neighborhood/city.
b. The suitability of the specific property for the proposed use;
   ● The property is very suitable for the proposed use. Only one small room is
     needed inside the home.
c. Whether the proposed use or facility may be injurious to potential or existing
development in the vicinity;
   ● The home occupation will not be injurious to development of the vicinity as it is
     inside the home and no modifications need to be made.
d. The economic impact of the proposed facility or use on the surrounding area;
   ● The home occupation will provide a job and income for me and it will attract
     clients to the area. But that impact will not be major since I only anticipate 2-6
     clients per day.
e. The aesthetic impact of the proposed facility or use on the surrounding area;
   ● Only a positive aesthetic impact will be done on the interior of the home/room
     being used; interior design and home decor. No aesthetic impact on the
     surrounding area.
f. The safeguards proposed or provided to ensure adequate utilities, transportation
access, drainage, parking, loading space, lighting, screening, landscaping, open space,
fire protection, and pedestrian and vehicular circulation;
   ● Driveway access will remain open for customers. A fire inspection has been done
     and will continue to comply with all regulations and stay up to date. Pedestrian
     and vehicular circulation will be safeguarded by leaving ample time between
     clients so there is no backup. The remaining listed things do not apply to this
     home business.
g. The safeguards provided or proposed to prevent noxious or offensive emissions
such as noise, glare, dust, pollutants and odor from the proposed facility or use;
   ● The home business provides waxing, brow, and lash lift services. These types of
     services do not produce any noise, glare, dust, or odor. The most noise will be
     from conversation.
h. The impact of the proposed facility or use on the health, safety, and welfare of the
city, the area, and persons owning or leasing property in the area.
   ● There will be no impact regarding the health, safety, and welfare of the area. All
     that is done will remain in the home and the surrounding area will experience
     little to no impact.
                                    Overview of Proposed Use

​      The proposed home-based esthetics business will provide body waxing, brow services,
and lash lifts/tints in a dedicated spare bedroom of the residence. Services will be provided by
appointment only, with one client at a time, ensuring that the impact on the surrounding
neighborhood is minimal.

Hours of Operation: The business will operate approximately from 8:00 AM to 2:00 PM or 2:00
PM to 8:00 PM, depending on client scheduling.

Parking: Clients will park in the residential driveway, eliminating the need for on-street parking.
No additional parking improvements are required.

Employees: The business will be operated solely by the owner, with no additional employees.

Site Improvements: No exterior modifications or signage are proposed. All business activities
will be conducted indoors, maintaining the residential character of the property.

Anticipated Detrimental Effects and Mitigation:

    ●​ Traffic: Client visits will be staggered and limited to one at a time, preventing congestion.​

    ●​ Noise: All services are conducted indoors and are inherently low-noise.​

    ●​ Neighborhood Impact: The appearance of the home will remain residential, with no
       exterior signage or alterations.​


Overall, the proposed use is designed to maintain compatibility with the surrounding
neighborhood, minimize impacts, and comply with all Draper City codes and regulations.




​
                            Statement of Compliance with Standards

​       The proposed home-based esthetics business, offering waxing, brow, and lash services,
will operate within a designated spare bedroom of the residence and is designed to have
minimal impact on the surrounding neighborhood. Only one client will be seen at a time, with
appointments scheduled to avoid overlapping visits and excessive traffic.

Parking will be provided in the residential driveway, eliminating the need for on-street parking.
All services will be conducted indoors, ensuring that noise and activity levels remain consistent
with normal residential use. No exterior modifications or business signage are planned,
maintaining the residential appearance of the property.

Business hours will generally be limited to 8:00 AM – 2:00 PM or 2:00 PM – 8:00 PM,
depending on client scheduling. Estimated client volume is up to 2–5 maximum per day. The
use complies with all Draper City zoning, building, fire, and safety codes. Any conditions
required by the City will be followed to ensure compatibility with adjacent properties and to
preserve the character of the neighborhood.
