                                      Development Review Committee
                                          1020 East Pioneer Road
                                            Draper, UT 84020
                                                     March 3, 2025

To:                Draper City Planning Commission
                   Business Date: March 13, 2025

From:              Development Review Committee

Prepared By: Jennifer Jastremsky, AICP, Community Development Director / Zoning
             Administrator
             Planning Division
             Community Development Department
             801-576-6328, jennifer.jastremsky@draperutah.gov

Re:      City Initiated Deviations for Government Buildings – Text Amendment Request
         Application No.: 2025-0049-TA
         Applicant:          Draper City
         Project Location: City Wide
         Current Zoning: City Wide
         Acreage:            City Wide
         Request:            Request for approval of a Text Amendment creating a new code
                             section to exempt city owned or built buildings from architectural
                             design standards and allow buildings owned or operated by the
                             State of Utah or one of its political subdivisions, a county, a
                             municipality, or a school district to increase their building height
                             by 5-feet.



BACKGROUND AND SUMMARY

This application is a request for approval of a Text Amendment that will impact publicly
owned buildings within the City boundaries. The purpose is to remove architectural
standards for City owned or built buildings that can unnecessarily increase costs
disproportionately to the intended public service the building or structure is for, and to
allow limited additional height for other government owned or operated buildings.




City Initiated Deviations for Government Buildings                      App. # 2025-0049-TA
Text Amendment Request                                     1
ANALYSIS

Text Amendment. City government buildings are required to comply with the Zoning
Ordinance, including site and architectural design requirements. As the design of many City
buildings and structures is often utilitarian and aligned to support a specific municipal
function, architectural design requirements, including requirements for the use of specific
building materials, can create significant additional costs, or cause needed improvements
to become cost prohibitive for the City. For example, in 2023 when the City Public Works
Department wanted to add a modular accessory building at the Public Works operations
site, the Planning Commission had to review and approve deviations from the ordinance
for exterior colors, building materials, and building orientation. To modify a pre-fabricated
modular building to meet the architectural standards of ordinance would have added
significant cost to the project that was not necessary and would not serve the best public
interest. The same is true for the alternative of constructing a new building. Even so,
increased costs to the city were also incurred in processing and reviewing the deviation
requests presented to the Planning Commission and in delays related to installation of the
building. The proposed text amendment will exempt public buildings owned or built by
Draper City from building design standards (Exhibit B). This will allow the City to build
within reasonable budgetary restrictions more aligned with the use of the public funds
used to build them.

The proposed amendment will also address building height standards for other public
entities. Often the use of a building determines the massing and height needed. For
example, the Corner Canyon High School auditorium required additional height for the fly
gallery where the stage lighting and movable scenery mechanism are housed. The
proposed amendment would allow for buildings owned and operated by the State of Utah
or one of its political subdivisions, a county, a municipality, or a school district to deviate
from the current height standards in ordinance by up to 5-feet. The proposed code
changes do require an additional 20% setback from property line than would otherwise be
required in consideration for the additional height. The Zoning Administrator is the
proposed approval authority for this deviation.

Criteria For Approval.
A Text Amendments are a matter committed to the legislative discretion of the City Council
and is not controlled by any one standard. However, in making a recommendation to the
City Council, the Planning Commission should consider the following factors in Section 9-5-
060(E) of the DCMC:

         2. Text Amendments:
              a. Whether the proposed amendment is consistent with goals, objectives and
                 policies of the city's general plan;
              b. Whether a proposed amendment furthers the specific purpose statements of
                 the zoning ordinance;



City Initiated Deviations for Government Buildings                     App. # 2025-0049-TA
Text Amendment Request                               2
                c. Whether the proposed amendment is appropriate given the context of the
                   request and there is sufficient justification for a modification to the zoning
                   ordinance;
                d. The proposed amendment will not create a conflict with any other section or
                   part of this title or the general plan;
                e. Whether the potential effects of the proposed amendment have been
                   evaluated and determined not to be detrimental to public health, safety, or
                   welfare and represents an overall community benefit; and
                f. The extent to which a proposed text amendment implements best current,
                   professional practices of urban planning, design, and engineering practices


REVIEWS

Planning Division Review. The Draper City Planning Division has completed their review of
the Text Amendment submission. Comments from this division, if any, can be found in
Exhibit A.

Legal Division Review. The Draper City Attorney has completed his review of the Text
Amendment submission. Comments from this division, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Noticing. Notice has been properly issued in the manner outlined in the City and State
Codes.



STAFF RECOMMENDATION

Staff recommends that the Planning Commission forward a positive recommendation to
the City Council for the request based on the findings for approval and the criteria for
approval, as listed within the staff report. The Planning Commission should also review the
request, and receive public comment prior to making a decision.



MODEL MOTIONS AND FINDINGS

Sample Motion for Approval – I move that we forward a positive recommendation to the
City Council for the City Initiated Deviations for Government Buildings Text Amendment, as
requested by Draper City, application 2025-0049-TA, based on the following findings for
approval as listed in the Staff Report dated March 3, 2025.

Findings for approval:
       1.     The proposed text amendment meets the standards found in DCMC Section
              9-5-060(E)(2).



City Initiated Deviations for Government Buildings                       App. # 2025-0049-TA
Text Amendment Request                               3
Sample Motion for Modified Approval– I move that we forward a positive recommendation
to the City Council for the City Initiated Deviations for Government Buildings Text
Amendment, as requested by Draper City, application 2025-0049-TA, based on the findings
for approval as listed in the Staff Report dated March 3, 2025 and as modified by the
following findings:

Additional or modified findings:
       1.     List any additional findings or modification to findings…

Sample Motion for Denial – I move that we forward a negative recommendation to the City
Council for the City Initiated Deviations for Government Buildings Text Amendment, as
requested by Draper City, application 2025-0049-TA, based on the following findings for
denial as listed in the Staff Report dated March 3, 2025.

Findings for denial:
       1.     The proposed text amendment does not meet the standards found in DCMC
              Section 9-5-060(E)(2).




City Initiated Deviations for Government Buildings                   App. # 2025-0049-TA
Text Amendment Request                               4
                                    EXHIBIT A
                               DEPARTMENT REVIEWS

REVIEWS ARE NOT MEANT TO BE AN ALL INCLUSIVE LIST OF POSSIBLE COMMENTS OR
CONDITIONS.



Planning Division Review.

       No comments provided.

Legal Division Review.

       No comments provided.
                                       EXHIBIT B
                                   PROPOSED CHANGES


9-27-250: DEVIATIONS FOR GOVERNMENT BUILDINGS:
A: The purpose of this section is to enable governmental agencies to build public
buildings suitable to the purposes for which the buildings are built within reasonable
budgetary restrictions in order to provide the best value for taxpayer dollars.
B: In addition to any exceptions or exemptions to land use regulations or development
standards granted by state law to a county, municipality, school district, charter school,
special district, special service district, and political subdivision of the state, the following
exceptions and exemptions to land use regulations and development standards apply:
    1. Public buildings owned or built by Draper City are exempt from any building
       design standards; and
    2. A building owned or operated by the state of Utah or one of its political
       subdivisions, a county, a municipality, or a school district may deviate from height
       restrictions by up to five feet (5’) if:
           a. The building for the requested height deviation is setback an additional
               20% from the required setback in the zone; and
           b. The Zoning Administrator issues an administrative interpretation
               consistent with 9-5-170 that the additional height serves a functional
               purpose for which the building is being built.
