MINUTES OF THE DRAPER CITY COUNCIL MEETING HELD ON TUESDAY, NOVEMBER
18, 2025, IN THE DRAPER CITY COUNCIL CHAMBERS, 1020 EAST PIONEER ROAD,
DRAPER, UTAH

PRESENT:     Mayor Troy K. Walker, and Councilmembers Mike Green, Bryn Heather
             Johnson, Tasha Lowery, Fred Lowry, and Marsha Vawdrey
EXCUSED:
STAFF:       Mike Barker, City Manager; Kellie Challburg, Assistant City Manager;
             Spencer DuShane, Assistant City Attorney; Pat Evans, Captain; Jennifer
             Jastremsky, Community Development Director; Robert Markle, Deputy
             Public Works Director and Engineer; Rhett Ogden, Parks and Recreation
             Director; Derek Orth, Human Resource Director; Linda Peterson,
             Communications Director; Nicole Smedley, City Recorder; Clint Smith,
             Fire Chief; Jake Sorensen, Network Manager; Travis DeJong, Business
             License Official; and John Vuyk, Finance Director
______________________________________________________________________________________

Study Session

   Discussion: Comprehensive Emergency Management Plan
   Emergency Management Coordinator Nick Roble presented an update to the
   Draper City Comprehensive Emergency Management Plan (CEMP), and answered
   questions from the Council. Mr. Roble said he was working to rebuild the CERT
   program. City Manager Mike Barker said he would email the CEMP to the City
   Council for review, with adoption anticipated in January.

   Discussion: Boundary Line Adjustment with Bluffdale Regarding The Point
   Mr. Barker explained the proposal to adjust the common boundary between
   Draper and Bluffdale at a specific intersection in The Point so that the entirety of
   the road was within Bluffdale, for ease of jurisdiction and maintenance
   responsibility. The intersection was currently within the Draper boundary.

   Mr. Barker pointed out a portion of the Porter Rockwell Trail currently within the
   Bluffdale boundary, and said an adjustment may be proposed to put all of the
   trail in Draper for ease of maintenance responsibility. He said staff would work
   with Bluffdale and bring potential adjustments to a future meeting.




                                                                             1|Page
        Draper City Council DRAFT Meeting Minutes – November 18, 2025
   Closed Meeting
   Councilmember Green moved to recess to a closed meeting to discuss pending
   or reasonably imminent litigation, purchase, exchange, or lease of real property,
   and the character, professional competence, or physical or mental health of an
   individual with the intent to return to open meeting. Councilmember T. Lowery
   seconded the motion.

   A roll call vote was taken. The motion passed unanimously.
                                           Yes     No    Absent
   Councilmember Green                      X
   Councilmember Johnson                    X
   Councilmember T. Lowery                  X
   Councilmember F. Lowry                   X
   Councilmember Vawdrey                    X

   Report: Parks Capital Improvement Projects
   Parks and Recreation Director Rhett Ogden reported on completed parks capital
   improvement projects, and provided an update on current projects: Jenson Farms
   Park Phase 3, Carpe Diem Bike Trail, Porter Rockwell Trail, North Cranberry Hills
   Access, and Phebe Brown Trail Phase 2. The Council and staff discussed a
   particular portion of the Phoebe Brown trail, and a majority of the Council
   appeared to support an 8-foot paved trail along the entire corridor, with direction
   that residents encroaching on the trail should pay the City fair value for the
   encroachment.

   Mr. Ogden described trail projects recommended by the Parks, Trails, and
   Recreation Committee. He said all the projects would be eligible to apply for Trail
   Foundation funding.

   Council/Manager Reports
   Moved to the end of the Business Session

Business Session

1. Call to Order by Mayor Troy K. Walker

2. Pledge of Allegiance

3. Oaths of Office


                                                                            2|Page
  Chief Smith introduced recently promoted Engineer Boyd Hammond, and
  Firefighters Parker Hansen, Josh Myers, and Wes Rasch. Chief Smith supervised
  the badge pinning, and City Recorder Nicole Smedley administered the Oath of
  Office.

4. Public Comments
  Grant Howarth, Herriman City resident, spoke about difficulties experienced by
  the early colonies, and commented that January 16 was recognized as Freedom
  of Religion Day by the State of Utah. He asked the Council to consider establishing
  a Religious Freedom Day for the Draper community.

  Branson Brinton, Draper resident, commented that Draper City did not have an
  indoor tennis facility. He asked the Council to consider approving use of currently
  unutilized City land for a temporary indoor tennis facility, with the intent that over
  time a permanent facility would be built.

5. Consent Items
   5.a Approve the October 21, 2025 City Council Meeting Minutes
   5.b Approve Resolution #25-60 appointing Jason Wiggins as a member of the
      Draper City Parks, Trails and Recreation Committee
  5.c Approve Resolution #25-61 appointing Gentry White as a member of the
      Draper City Tree Committee
  5.d Approve Resolution #25-62 appointing Mayor Troy Walker as Draper City’s
      designated representative to the Board of Trustees of the Jordan Basin
      Improvement District
  5.e Approve Resolution #25-63 accepting a quit claim deed from Triple S
      Investment Co., LLC
  5.f Approve Resolution #25-64 adopting the official Draper City Brand and Style
      Guide

  Councilmember Vawdrey moved to approve                     the   Consent     Agenda.
  Councilmember Johnson seconded the motion.

  A roll call vote was taken. The motion passed unanimously.
                                         Yes No      Absent
  Councilmember Green                     X
  Councilmember Johnson                   X
  Councilmember T. Lowery                 X
  Councilmember F. Lowry                  X


                                                                              3|Page
   Councilmember Vawdrey                 X

6. Items for Council Consideration
   6.a Public Hearing: South Salt Lake Valley Mosquito Abatement District Proposed
       Tax Increase
       Brad Gilson, representing the South Salt Lake Valley Mosquito Abatement
       District (SSLVMAD), introduced District Manager Dan McBride. Mr. McBride
       reported the intent of the SSLVMAD to hold a Truth in Taxation hearing on
       December 8, 2025. He said the proposed property tax increase would equal
       $0.77 per year for a $600,000 residence, and $1.40 per year for a $600,000
       business. The proposed increase in revenue would provide cost stabilization
       of essential services, operational enhancements, and replenish capital
       budget reserves.

       Responding to a question from Councilmember T. Lowery, Mr. McBride said
       there had been an increase in the incidence of West Nile Virus nationwide
       and statewide.

       Mayor Walker opened a public hearing, and closed the public hearing seeing
       no one come forward.

       Mayor Walker thanked Mr. McBride for the presentation.

   6.b Public Hearing: Providing Local Consent for a Limited-Service Restaurant
       License for Little Thai Kitchen LLC
       Business License Official Travis DeJong presented a request for Local
       Consent for a Limited-Service Restaurant License for Little Thai Kitchen LLC.
       He said the application met all distance requirements, and explained there
       was no limit to the number of limited-service restaurant licenses the City
       could grant.

       Mayor Walker opened a public hearing, and closed the public hearing seeing
       no one come forward.

       Councilmember F. Lowry moved to approve Local Consent. Councilmember
       Green seconded the motion.

       A roll call vote was taken. The motion passed unanimously.
                                         Yes No      Absent

                                                                           4|Page
      Councilmember Green               X
      Councilmember Johnson             X
      Councilmember T. Lowery           X
      Councilmember F. Lowry            X
      Councilmember Vawdrey             X

6.c   Public Hearing: Resolution #25-66 amending the adopted budget of Draper
      City for Fiscal Year 2025-2026
      Finance Director John Vuyk presented a proposed amendment to the FY2026
      Budget. He reported grant funding received for the Fire Department, and
      explained the need to add another $30,000 to the budget amendment for
      fire engine equipment.

      Mayor Walker opened a public hearing, and closed the public hearing seeing
      no one come forward.

      Councilmember T. Lowrey moved to approve Resolution #25-66, with
      addition of another $30,000 from General Fund balance for Fire Engine
      Equipment. Councilmember Mike Green seconded the motion.

      A roll call vote was taken. The motion passed unanimously.
                                        Yes No      Absent
      Councilmember Green                 X
      Councilmember Johnson               X
      Councilmember T. Lowery             X
      Councilmember F. Lowry              X
      Councilmember Vawdrey               X

6.d Public Hearing: Ordinance #1683 amending the Official Zoning Map of
      Draper City for approximately 1.31 acres of property located at 1360 E. 13200
      S. and 0.97 acres of property located at 13239 S. 1300 E., known as the
      Plummer Zoning Map Amendment
      Nick Whittaker, MCMP, showed the subject properties on a vicinity map, and
      explained the request to amend the Zoning Map from RA1 (Residential
      Agricultural, 40,000 square foot minimum lot size) to RA2 (Single-Family
      Residential, 20,000 square foot minimum lot size). He said it was his
      understanding the property owner desired to subdivide the land into three
      lots. Mr. Whittaker stated RA1 and RA2 were compatible zones, and said the



                                                                          5|Page
      Planning Commission reviewed the request and forwarded a positive
      recommendation.

      Councilmember Johnson asked how the three proposed lots would be
      configured. Mr. Whittaker responded an application for subdivision had not
      yet been submitted.

      Burke Plummer, applicant, said he wanted to make three lots out of two, with
      two half-acre lots and one larger L-shaped lot. Councilmember Green asked
      why the current zoning would not work for the applicant. Mr. Plummer said
      he would not be able to build his home in the way he desired without
      combining the two properties in the RA2 Zone, and subdividing into three
      properties.

      Mayor Walker opened a public hearing, and closed the public hearing seeing
      no one come forward.

      Councilmember Vawdrey moved to approve                 Ordinance     #1683.
      Councilmember T. Lowrey seconded the motion.

      A roll call vote was taken. The motion passed unanimously.
                                        Yes No      Absent
      Councilmember Green                 X
      Councilmember Johnson               X
      Councilmember T. Lowery             X
      Councilmember F. Lowry              X
      Councilmember Vawdrey               X

6.e   Public Hearing: Ordinance #1684 and Ordinance #1685 amending the
      Official Land User Map and an Ordinance amending the Official Zoning Map
      of Draper City for approximately 0.89 acres of property located at 1394 E.
      12900 S., known as the Fetzer Land Use Map and Zoning Map Amendments
      Mr. Whittaker presented the request to amend the Land Use Map from Low-
      Medium Density to Medium Density designation for the subject property,
      and the request to change the Zoning Map from RA2 (Residential
      Agricultural, 20,000 square foot minimum lot size) to R3 (Single-Family
      Residential, 13,000 square foot minimum lot size). Mr. Whittaker said the R3
      Zone would allow for creation of one additional lot, and said the purpose of
      the request was to allow the applicant to age in place. He said the Planning

                                                                         6|Page
Commission reviewed         the   request    and    forwarded    a   positive
recommendation.

Councilmember F. Lowry asked if subdivision of the property into three lots
would be possible with the R3 Zone. Mr. Whittaker responded subdivision
into three lots would not be possible without the purchase of additional land
from neighboring properties.

Robert Fetzer, applicant, said he owned the subject property and home. He
said he and his wife loved their home and neighborhood, and wanted to
remain in their home as long as possible to age in place. He said he was
seeking the change in zone to allow himself the option to subdivide before
the maintenance of his home and property became too difficult for him.

Councilmember Green asked why the existing zoning was not proper. Mr.
Fetzer said his family had discussed the possibility of his daughter
purchasing the subdivided lot and providing needed property maintenance,
as well as looking after his personal needs.

Mayor Walker opened a public hearing.

Ryan Swapp, Draper resident, said he lived on a property adjacent to the
subject property. He expressed concern that the subject property was only a
couple hundred square feet short of being eligible for subdivision into three
lots, if zoned R3. Mr. Swapp said subdivision into three lots would change
and destroy the nature and character of the lane, and said the single-
direction lane was not capable of supporting more than the existing homes.
He said he viewed the requested rezone as spot zoning, inconsistent with the
General Plan.

Shawn Steinman, Draper resident, said he typically loved projects like the
one under consideration. However, he said the subject property was on a
private lane that currently serviced two homes. Mr. Steinman said
subdivision of the subject property into three lots would add constraints on
the existing private lane agreement. He said he believed density had its
place, and did not believe adding density to a private lane was the place. Mr.
Steinman expressed concern for safety, and spoke of a precedent that would
be set. He said he believed the applicant could accomplish what was desired
with the current ADU clause.

                                                                     7|Page
Mayor Walker closed the public hearing.

Councilmember F. Lowry asked if the applicant would be opposed to a
development agreement limiting the development possibility to two lots.
Councilmember T. Lowery explained that although the applicant did not
have quite enough land to request the R2 Zone for two lots, a similar result
could be achieved with a development agreement.

Mr. Fetzer said it had not ever been his intent to create more than a two-lot
situation. Mr. Whittaker expressed the opinion that rezoning to R3 would be
the most straightforward way of creating a two-lot subdivision based upon
zoning designations available. He said one of the two lots would be able to
access 12900 East, and would not need access to the private lane.

Community Development Director Jen Jastremsky said the Zoning Code did
not allow a private lane to count toward the lot size calculation, and stated
there would be no way to get three lots out of the subject property with the
R3 Zone. Responding to a question about the possibility of acquiring more
property, Ms. Jastremsky pointed out that homes on adjacent properties
were fairly close to the property lines, and the properties did not have much
land to give. Responding to a question from Councilmember T. Lowery, Ms.
Jastremsky confirmed there would be no possibility of the subject property
splitting into three lots if the Council approved the rezone to R3.

Councilmember Vawdrey said access to 12900 East for the potential second
lot resolved the concern expressed regarding the private lane.

Councilmember Green moved to approve Ordinances #1684 and #1685.
Councilmember Vawdrey seconded the motion.

A roll call vote was taken. The motion passed unanimously.
                                  Yes No      Absent
Councilmember Green                 X
Councilmember Johnson               X
Councilmember T. Lowery             X
Councilmember F. Lowry              X
Councilmember Vawdrey               X



                                                                    8|Page
7. Action Items
   7.a Resolution #25-66 accepting the City of Draper Audit and Annual
      Comprehensive Financial Report (ACFR) for Fiscal Year ending June 30, 2025
      Finance Director John Vuyk introduced Rob Wood, who presented the Audit
      and ACFR for FY2025. Mr. Wood reported Draper was found to be in
      compliance with generally accepted accounting principles and noticing
      requirements.

      Councilmember T. Lowery moved to approve                Resolution   #25-66.
      Councilmember Green seconded the motion.

      A roll call vote was taken. The motion passed unanimously.
                                        Yes No      Absent
      Councilmember Green                 X
      Councilmember Johnson               X
      Councilmember T. Lowery             X
      Councilmember F. Lowry              X
      Councilmember Vawdrey               X

  7.b Resolution #25-67 of the Draper City Council acting as the Municipal Board
      of Canvassers declaring the results of the November 4, 2025 General
      Municipal Election
      City Recorder Nicole Smedley presented a statement of votes cast in the
      2025 General Election, with Troy K. Walker receiving a majority of votes
      (72.35%) for Mayor, and Kathryn Dahlin receiving a majority of votes (55.61%)
      for the Draper City Council At-Large (2-year term) seat.

      Councilmember F. Lowry moved to approve                 Resolution   #25-67.
      Councilmember T. Lowrey seconded the motion.

      A roll call vote was taken. The motion passed unanimously.
                                        Yes No      Absent
      Councilmember Green                 X
      Councilmember Johnson               X
      Councilmember T. Lowery             X
      Councilmember F. Lowry              X
      Councilmember Vawdrey               X




                                                                           9|Page
   7.c   Ordinance #1682 amending Titles 7 and 10 of the Draper City Municipal Code
         regarding the requirement for fire sprinklers under the Draper City Fire and
         Construction Codes
         Assistant City Attorney Spencer DuShane said a member of staff had noticed
         that City Code was deficient regarding requirement for fire sprinklers. Mr.
         DuShane said State Code adopted the International Fire Code, but left some
         elements out, allowing individual jurisdictions to decide whether to add them
         back in. He said adoption of the proposed ordinance would adopt the
         International Fire Code requirement for fire sprinklers, and correct various
         grammatical errors.

         Councilmember Green moved to approve                    Ordinance      #1682.
         Councilmember Vawdrey seconded the motion.

         A roll call vote was taken. The motion passed unanimously.
                                           Yes No      Absent
         Councilmember Green                 X
         Councilmember Johnson               X
         Councilmember T. Lowery             X
         Councilmember F. Lowry              X
         Councilmember Vawdrey               X

Council/Manager Reports (continued from Study Session)
  • Councilmember F. Lowry reported that a specific road work sign was in a
     hazardous location on 13800 South. Robert Markle, Deputy Public Works
     Director stated he would look into it.
  • Chief Smith reported the City’s new fire engine would be put into service on
     November 20, 2025. He invited the Council and public to attend the scheduled
     push-in ceremony.

8. Adjournment
   Councilmember Green moved to adjourn the meeting. Councilmember F. Lowry
   seconded the motion, which passed by unanimous voice vote.

   The meeting adjourned at 8:24 p.m.




                                                                             10 | P a g e
