                                   Development Review Committee
                                       1020 East Pioneer Road
                                          Draper, UT 84020
                                              October 17, 2025

To:              Draper City Planning Commission
                 Business Date: November 13, 2025

From:            Development Review Committee

Prepared By: Todd Taylor, Planner III
             Planning Division
             Community Development Department
             801-576-6510, todd.taylor@draperutah.gov

Re:     Amendment to the Draper FrontRunner (Vista), Kimballs Lane, and Crescent View
        Station Area Plans – General Plan Amendment Request
        Application No.: 2025-0255-TA
        Applicant:         Draper City
        Project Location: City Wide – Transit Station Areas
        Request:           Request for adoption of an Amendment to the Draper
                           FrontRunner (Vista), Kimballs Lane, and Crescent View Station Area
                           Plans to change several figures.



BACKGROUND AND SUMMARY

This is a request for adoption of an amendment to the Draper FrontRunner (Vista), Kimballs
Lane, and Crescent View Station Area Plans (SAPs), which are a component of the Draper City
General Plan, to change several figures.

In 2022, House Bill (HB) 462 required municipalities to adopt SAPs for areas surrounding
existing fixed guideway public transit stations on or before December 31, 2025. On
September 2, 2025 the City Council adopted the Draper FrontRunner (Vista), Kimballs Lane,
and Crescent View SAPs.

Following adoption of the plans by the City, Utah Transit Authority (UTA) staff contacted the
City requesting updates to several of the existing figures in the SAPs to show a mixed-use
building near the Draper FrontRunner station (Exhibit B).




Amendment to the Draper FronRunner (Vista),
Kimballs Lane, Crescent View SAPs                    1              App. No: 2025-0255-TA
General Plan Amendment Request
ANALYSIS

Following adoption by the City, the SAPs were certified by the Wasatch Front Regional Council
(WFRC) and UTA. While the SAP indicates that figures showing proposed buildings in the
document are only concepts, City staff worked with the consultant to revise the figures in the
SAP at the request of UTA.

Changes are proposed to Figures 18, 19, 20, 22 and 24 (Exhibit C) to add a mixed-use building
near the FrontRunner station. The layout and massing of the mixed-use building are
consistent with that of a proposed building that was added to Vista Station as part of a
Master Area Plan (MAP) amendment that was approved on December 13, 2022. However, no
applications for the development of this building have been submitted to the City.

Criteria For Approval.
Amendments to the General Plan fall under DCMC Section 9-2-020(F). That section lists the
following criteria for a General Plan amendment as:

        Plan Amendment: All plan amendments shall be in accordance with Utah Code
        Annotated 10-9a-404, as amended and, unless requested by the city's legislative
        body, shall follow the procedures as outlined in Draper City Municipal Code 9-5-
        060(D).” That section is noted as follows:

        D.       Procedure: Zoning text and map amendments shall be considered and
                 processed as provided in this subsection:
                 1.    A complete application shall be submitted to the office of the zoning
                       administrator in a form established by the administrator along with
                       any fee established by the city’s schedule of fees. The application shall
                       include at least the following information:
                       a.     The name, address and telephone number of the applicant
                              and the applicant’s agent, if any.
                       b.     The name and address of every person or company the
                              applicant represents.
                       c.     The requested amendment and reasons supporting the
                              request.
                       d.     If the proposed amendment requires a change in the zoning
                              map, the application shall include:
                              (1)     An accurate property map showing present and
                                      proposed zoning classifications;
                              (2)     All abutting properties showing present zoning
                                      classifications; and
                              (3)     An accurate legal description and an approximate
                                      common address of the area proposed to be rezoned.



Amendment to the Draper FronRunner (Vista),
Kimballs Lane, Crescent View SAPs               2                      App. No: 2025-0255-TA
General Plan Amendment Request
                          e.      If the proposed amendment requires a change in the text of
                                  this title, the application shall include chapter and section
                                  references and a draft of the proposed text.
                 2.       After the application is determined to be complete, the zoning
                          administrator shall prepare a staff report evaluating the application.
                 3.       The planning commission shall schedule and hold a public hearing on
                          the application as provided in sections 9-5-040 and 9-5-045 of this
                          chapter. Following the public meeting, the planning commission shall
                          recommend approval, approval with modifications, or denial of the
                          proposed amendment and shall submit its recommendation to the
                          city council for review and decision.
                 4.       The city council shall schedule and hold a public hearing on the
                          application as provided in sections 9-5-040 and 9-5-045 of this
                          chapter. Following the public hearing, the city council may approve,
                          approve with modifications, or deny the proposed amendment.

Adoption of a station area plan also falls under USC Section 10-21-203(7). That section lists
the following requirements for a station area plan as:

        (8)      A station area plan shall include the following components:
                 (a)     a station area vision that:
                         (i)     is consistent with Subsection (6); and
                         (ii)    describes the following:
                                 (A)    opportunities for the development of land within the
                                        station area under existing conditions;
                                 (B)    constraints on the development of land within the
                                        station area under existing conditions;
                                 (C)    the municipality's objectives for the transportation
                                        system within the station area and the future
                                        transportation system that meets those objectives;
                                 (D)    the municipality's objectives for land uses within the
                                        station area and the future land uses that meet those
                                        objectives;
                                 (E)    the municipality's objectives for public and open spaces
                                        within the station area and the future public and open
                                        spaces that meet those objectives; and
                                 (F)    the municipality's objectives for the development of
                                        land within the station area and the future development
                                        standards that meet those objectives;
                 (b)     a map that depicts:
                         (i)     the station area;
                         (ii)    the area within the station area to which the station area plan
                                 applies, provided that the station area plan may apply to areas


Amendment to the Draper FronRunner (Vista),
Kimballs Lane, Crescent View SAPs                 3                     App. No: 2025-0255-TA
General Plan Amendment Request
                                  outside the station area, and the station area plan is not
                                  required to apply to the entire station area; and
                          (iii)   the area where each action is needed to implement the station
                                  area plan;
                 (c)      an implementation plan that identifies and describes each action
                          needed within the next five years to implement the station area plan,
                          and the party responsible for taking each action, including any actions
                          to:
                          (i)     modify land use regulations;
                          (ii)    make infrastructure improvements;
                          (iii)   modify deeds or other relevant legal documents;
                          (iv)    secure funding or develop funding strategies;
                          (v)     establish design standards for development within the station
                                  area; or
                          (vi)    provide environmental remediation;
                 (d)      a statement that explains how the station area plan promotes the
                          objectives described in Subsection (6)(a); and
                 (e)      as an alternative or supplement to the requirements of Subsection (6)
                          or this Subsection (7), and for purposes of Subsection (1)(b)(ii), a
                          statement that describes any conditions that would make the
                          following impracticable:
                          (i)     promoting the objectives described in Subsection (6)(a); or
                          (ii)    satisfying the requirements of this Subsection (7).


REVIEWS

Planning Division Review. The Draper City Planning Division has completed their review of
the SAPs. Comments from this division, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Noticing. Notice has been properly issued in the manner outlined in the City and State
Codes.



STAFF RECOMMENDATION

Staff recommends that the Planning Commission review the request, receive public
comment, and make a recommendation to the City Council regarding approval, approval
with modifications, or denial of the General Plan Amendment based on the findings and
criteria for adoption, or rejection, as listed within the staff report.




Amendment to the Draper FronRunner (Vista),
Kimballs Lane, Crescent View SAPs                 4                     App. No: 2025-0255-TA
General Plan Amendment Request
MODEL MOTIONS

Sample Motion for a Positive Recommendation – I move that we forward a positive
recommendation to the City Council for the General Plan Amendment, as requested by
Draper City, Application No. 2025-0255-TA, based on the following findings for approval and
the criteria for adoption as listed in the Staff Report dated October 17, 2025.

Findings for approval:

    1. A Public Hearing before the Planning Commission was held in accordance with Utah
       State Code Section 10-20-405.
    2. The General Plan Amendment is consistent with the requirements of Utah State
       Code and is appropriate.

Sample Motion for a Positive Recommendation with Modifications – I move that we forward
a positive recommendation to the City Council for the General Plan Amendment, as
requested by Draper City, Application No. 2025-0255-TA, based on the findings for approval
and the criteria for adoption as listed in the Staff Report dated October 17, 2025, inclusive of
the following additional recommended modifications or findings:

    1. (List any recommended modifications…)
    2. (List any additional findings for approval…)

Sample Motion for a Negative Recommendation – I move that we forward a negative
recommendation to the City Council for the General Plan Amendment, as requested by
Draper City, Application No. 2025-0255-TA, based on the following finding for denial and the
criteria for rejection as listed in the Staff Report dated October 17, 2025.

Finding for denial:

    1. The General Plan Amendment is not consistent with the requirements of Utah State
       Code and is not appropriate.




Amendment to the Draper FronRunner (Vista),
Kimballs Lane, Crescent View SAPs              5                      App. No: 2025-0255-TA
General Plan Amendment Request
                                     EXHIBIT A
                                DEPARTMENT REVIEWS

REVIEWS ARE NOT MEANT TO BE AN ALL INCLUSIVE LIST OF POSSIBLE COMMENTS OR
CONDITIONS.



Planning Division Review.

   1. No additional comments.
    EXHIBIT B
EXISTING FIGURES
    EXHIBIT C
PROPOSED FIGURES
