MEMO
To: City Council
From: Nick Whittaker
Date: 2025-02-04
Re: Public Hearing: Ordinance #1633


Comments:


This application is a request for approval of a Zoning Map Amendment from RA1
(Residential Agricultural, 40,000 ft² min. lot size) to RA2 (Residential Agricultural, 20,000 ft²
min. lot size) for approximately 2.43 acres located on the south side of 13800 S. at
approximately 516 East 13800 South. The applicant is requesting that a Zoning Map
Amendment be approved so that the applicant can develop the property for as many as
four (4) residential lots for single-family homes.


The Planning Commission forwarded a positive recommendation for approval of the
Zoning Map Amendment at their January 9, 2025 meeting on a unanimous 5-0 vote.



Findings for Approval:

  1. The proposed zoning map amendment is consistent with goals, objectives, and
     policies of the city's general plan.
  2. The proposed zoning map amendment is compatible with the subject properties
     existing Land Use Designation and harmonious with the overall character of existing
     development in the vicinity of the subject property.
  3. The proposed zoning map amendment will not adversely affect adjacent property.
  4. There are adequate facilities and services intended to serve the subject property,
     including, but not limited to, roadways, parks and recreation facilities, police and fire
     protection, schools, stormwater drainage systems, water supplies, and wastewater
     and refuse collection.

Findings for Denial:

  1. The proposed zoning map amendment is not consistent with goals, objectives, and
     policies of the city's general plan.
  2. The proposed zoning map amendment is not compatible with the subject properties
     existing Land Use Designation and is not harmonious with the overall character of
     existing development in the vicinity of the subject property.
  3. The proposed zoning map amendment will adversely affect adjacent property.
  4. There are not adequate facilities and services intended to serve the subject
     property, including, but not limited to, roadways, parks and recreation facilities,
     police and fire protection, schools, stormwater drainage systems, water supplies,
     and wastewater and refuse collection.


ATTACHMENTS:

public comment RE South Willow.pdf
ATTACHMENTS:

South Willow staff Report 2024-0340-MA.pdf
ATTACHMENTS:

O-1633.pdf
