MEMO
To: Planning Commission
From: Todd A. Draper, AICP
Date: 2025-12-11
Re: Public Hearing: Granite Construction Yard Site Plan and Deviation Requests
(Administrative Items)


Comments:

This application is a request for approval of a Site Plan and associated deviation requests
for approximately 0.85 acres located on the north side of 13800 S. and south of Bangerter
Highway, at approximately 13488 S. 200 W.). The property is currently zoned M1 (Light
Industrial). The applicant is requesting that a Site Plan and deviation requests from strict
compliance with requirements for building design and vehicular cross access be
approved to allow for the development of the currently vacant site as a construction sales
and service materials yard.

Building Orientation Deviation
Findings for Approval
  1. The requested deviation is consistent with the purpose and intent of the
     development standards of the applicable zoning district or land use category.
  2. The proposed development satisfies at least three (3) of the criteria listed in 9-22-
     030(B).

Findings for Denial
  1. The requested deviation is not consistent with the purpose and intent of the
     development standards of the applicable zoning district or land use category.
  2. The proposed development does not satisfy at least three (3) of the criteria listed in
     9-22-030(B).

Cross Access Deviation
Findings for Approval
  1. Requiring cross access would create a health hazard by linking uses that are
     incompatible with each other.
  2. The abutting development has not been designed or required to provide reciprocal
     cross access to the subject property.
Findings for Denial
  1. Requiring cross access would not result in the slope of the cross access drive
     exceeding twelve percent (12%).
  2. Requiring cross access would not result in a violation or nonconformity with other
     requirements of this title.
  3. Requiring cross access would not create a health hazard by linking incompatible
     uses with each other.
  4. There are not site improvements that physically impede the ability to create a cross
     access drive between both properties.

Site Plan
Findings for Approval
  1. The proposal represents development of the entire site at one time.
  2. A site plan together with the imposed conditions and approved deviations will
      conform to applicable standards set forth in this title, including but not limited to,
      building heights, setbacks, access points, parking, landscaping, and building
      materials.
  3. The proposed development plans meet the intent, goals, and objectives of the
      general plan and the purpose of the zone district in which the site is located.
  4. The public facilities and services in the area are adequate to support the subject
      development, as required by engineering standards and specifications.
  5. The proposed development plans will comply with the engineering standards found
      in Titles 7, 8, 11, 12, 16, and 18 of this code, including traffic, storm water drainage,
      and utilities concerns.

Findings for Denial
  1. A site plan as proposed does not conform to applicable standards set forth in this
     title, including but not limited to, building heights, setbacks, access points, parking,
     landscaping, and building materials.
  2. The proposed development plans do not meet the intent, goals, and objectives of
     the general plan or the purpose of the zone district in which the site is located.
  3. The public facilities and services in the area are not adequate to support the subject
     development, as required by engineering standards and specifications.
  4. The proposed development plans do not comply with one or more of the
     engineering standards found in Titles 7, 8, 11, 12, 16, and 18 of this code, including
     traffic, storm water drainage, and utilities concerns.


ATTACHMENTS:

Granite Construction Staff Report -Final.pdf
