                                  Development Review Committee
                                      1020 East Pioneer Road
                                        Draper, UT 84020
                                          March 25, 2025

To:              Draper City Planning Commission
                 Business Date: April 10, 2025

From:            Development Review Committee

Prepared By: Nick Whittaker, MCMP, Planner II
             Planning Division
             Community Development Department
             801-576-6522, Nick.Whittaker@draperutah.gov

Re:     H&B Supply LLC. – Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit Request
        Application No.: 2025-0023-USE
        Applicant:        Nicholas Roble representing H&B Supply, LLC.
        Project Location: 2166 E. Eagle Chase Dr.
        Current Zoning: RM (Multiple Dwelling Unit Residential), Suncrest Development
                          Agreement
        Acreage:          0.18 Acres (Approximately 7,841 ft2)
        Request:          Request for approval of a Home Occupation Conditional Use
                          Permit in the RM zone regarding a home office that provides
                          firearm transfer services.



BACKGROUND AND SUMMARY

This application is a request for approval of a Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit for
approximately 0.18 acres located on the south side of Eagle Chase Dr. At approximately
2166 E. Eagle Chase Dr. (Exhibits B & C). The property is currently zoned RM, and is subject
to the Suncrest Development Agreement. The applicant is requesting that a Home
Occupation Conditional Use Permit be approved to allow for a home office which provides
firearm transfer services.

The subject property is lot number 216 of the Eagle Crest No. 1 at Suncrest subdivision. The
property was built in 2007. The proposed home occupation will operate from an office
located in a sitting room on the first floor of the residential dwelling.




H&B Supply, LLC.                                                  App. # 2025-0023-USE
Home Occupation Conditional Use Request         1
ANALYSIS

General Plan and Zoning.

 Table 1                   General Plan and Zoning Designations                  Exhibit
 Existing Land Use         Low Medium Density                                    Exhibit D
 Current Zoning            RM                                                    Exhibit E
 Adjacent Zoning
    East                   RM
    West                   RM
    North                  RM
    South                  RM



The Low/Medium Density land use designation is characterized as follows:




H&B Supply, LLC.                                                  App. # 2025-0023-USE
Home Occupation Conditional Use Request         2
According to the 1999 Draper City Municipal Code (DCMC) Section 9-8-020 the purpose of
the RM zone is to “provide areas for low-to-medium residential density with the
opportunity for varied housing styles and character, providing for a maximum density of up
to twelve (12) units per acre for medium to high density residential unit projects subject to
conditional-use permit procedures and conditions for this type of use and based on
minimum development guidelines adopted by the City.”

Home Occupation. The 1999 DCMC, Subsections 9-4-140(a) and (b) outline development
standards applicable to home occupations in this area. Those criteria, along with
information specific to the subject request, are as follows:

Section 9-4-140 Home Occupations.

    (a) Notwithstanding other sections of this Title, a home occupation shall be considered
        a permitted use in any residential, multiple family and agriculture zone if the
        proposed use meets all of the following conditions:

             (1)       The home occupation is a home office, beauty salon, pre-school or day
                       care business, as regulated by the State of Utah.

                   •   A Federal Firearms Dealer is not one of the specific business types listed
                       as permitted, but can be allowed through the issuance of a conditional
                       use permit per the 1999 DCMC Subsection 9-4-140(b).

             (2)       The business is owned and operated by the resident of the home.

                   •   The applicant is a resident of the home and is the sole operator of the
                       home occupation (Exhibit H).

             (3)       No employees, other than residents of the home, utilize the facility.

                   •   The applicant is the only one employed in the proposed home occupation
                       (Exhibit H).

             (4)       For beauty salon, pre-school or day care business, the hours of operation
                       do not begin before 7 a.m. or extend beyond 8 p.m.

                   •   The business type is not one of these listed businesses.

             (5)       A business license is obtained from, and continually maintained with the
                       City.




H&B Supply, LLC.                                                        App. # 2025-0023-USE
Home Occupation Conditional Use Request            3
                   •   The applicant has agreed to obtain and maintain a business license with
                       Draper City (Exhibit H).

             (6)       All facilities are inspected by the Fire Department prior to initial use and
                       meet Fire Department standards at all times.

                   •   The applicant has acknowledged that the business will need to comply
                       with inspection requirements for the business license and the Fire Code
                       (Exhibit H).

             (7)       All drop-off or customer parking is accommodated on paved portions of
                       the property.

                   •   Customers visiting the home have access to an off-street parking stall
                       located on the existing paved driveway (Exhibits F & H).

    (b) Any home occupation which does not meet the provisions outlined above shall be
        processed as a Conditional Use in accordance with Section 9-2-104 of this Title.

                   •   This application is for the required Conditional Use Permit.

Criteria For Approval.
The criteria for review and potential approval of a conditional use permit request under the
1999 DCMC are found in Subsections 9-2-104(e) and (f). These sections depict the standard
of review for such requests as:

1999 DCMC 9-2-104
   (e) Requirements. The Planning Commission may permit it a conditional use to be
       located within any district in which the particular conditional use is allowed by the
       use regulations of this Title, and may impose such requirements and conditions as
       are necessary or desirable for the protection of adjacent properties and the public
       welfare. The Planning Commission shall not authorize a conditional use permit
       unless the evidence presented is such to establish that:
          (1)    The proposed use will not, under the circumstances of the particular
                 case, be detrimental to the health, safety, or general welfare of persons
                 residing or working in the vicinity, or injurious to property or
                 improvements in the vicinity;
          (2)    The proposed use of the particular location is necessary or desirable to
                 provide a service or facility which will contribute to the general well-being
                 of the neighborhood and the community; and
          (3)    The proposed use will comply with regulations and conditions specified in
                 this Title for such use and to the intent of the City General Plan.




H&B Supply, LLC.                                                          App. # 2025-0023-USE
Home Occupation Conditional Use Request             4
    (f)   Factors. The following factors shall be reviewed and considered by the Planning
          Commission in determining whether a conditional use permit application should be
          approved, denied, or approved with conditions.
            (1)     The harmony and compliance of the proposed use with the objectives
                    and requirements of the City General Plan and Zoning Ordinances.
            (2)     The suitability of the specific property for the proposed use.
            (3)     The development or lack of development adjacent to the proposed site
                    and the harmony of the proposed use with the existing uses in the
                    neighborhood.
            (4)     Whether or not the proposed use or facility may be injurious to potential
                    or existing development within the vicinity.
            (5)     The economic impact of the proposed facility or use on the surrounding
                    area.
            (6)     The aesthetic impact of the proposed facility or use on the surrounding
                    area.
            (7)     Whether or not the proposed use or facility is necessary or desirable to
                    the City.
            (8)     The number of other similar conditional uses in the area and the public
                    need for the proposed conditional use.
            (9)     The present and future requirements for transportation, traffic, water,
                    sewer, and other utilities, for the proposed site and surrounding area.
            (10) The safeguards proposed or provided to insure adequate utilities,
                    transportation access, drainage, parking, loading space, lighting,
                    screening, landscaping, open space, fire protection, and pedestrian and
                    vehicular circulation.
            (11) The safeguards provided or proposed to prevent noxious or offensive
                    omissions such as noise, glare, dust, pollutants and odor from the
                    proposed facility or use.
            (12) The safeguards provided or proposed to minimize other adverse effects
                    from the proposed facility or use on persons or property in the area.
            (13) The impact of the proposed facility or use on the health, safety, and
                    welfare of the City, the area, and persons owning or leasing property in
                    the area.
            (14) The appropriateness and compatibility of the proposed use with the use
                    tables set forth in this Title for the zone in which the property is located.


Staff has reviewed the applicants request and documentation regarding the home
occupation. The applicant has indicated that the home occupation provides firearms
transfer service from the subject property. The applicant will facilitate the sale of firearms
between private online sellers and local buyers at their home office. When an online seller
of a firearm sells to a local buyer, the seller ships the firearm to the business owner who is
a federal firearms dealer. The firearm is logged and stored as required by federal law and



H&B Supply, LLC.                                                      App. # 2025-0023-USE
Home Occupation Conditional Use Request         5
then the business owner arranges an appointment time for the customer to come to the
office and complete required paperwork, which includes a background check through the
Utah Bureau of Criminal Identification (BCI). Once the paperwork is complete and the
background check is approved, the customer is given the firearm. The applicant indicates
that the typical length of an appointment does not exceed 30 minutes and that he expects
only one (1) to two (2) customers per week. The applicant is not selling the firearm, but
provides a service which facilitates the sale and transfer of a firearm between two parties
when a firearm is sold online. The applicant also indicates that it might be possible for
some ammunition sales to occur in a similar manner, although that does not appear to be
the intended focus of the business.

Staff notes that the proposed home occupation has the potential to negatively impact
neighborhood traffic due to customers coming to the home and parking their vehicles at
the subject property which could increase the number of vehicles parked on the street or
negatively impact neighborhood traffic.

However, staff notes that the potential for such negative impacts would be very minimal as
the anticipated number of customers coming to the home in a single week is two (2).
Additionally, all customers coming to the home are by appointment only which is
scheduled in advance for one customer at a time and the appointments last no longer than
30 minutes (Exhibit H). In addition, the applicant will provide the customer with an off-
street parking stall located on the existing driveway for the duration of the appointment as
indicated in exhibits F and H.

Staff believes that the applicant’s proposed mitigations are sufficient to mitigate the
potential negative impacts and has incorporated some of them into the suggested
conditions for approval.



REVIEWS

Planning Division Review. The Draper City Planning Division has completed their review of
the Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit submission. Comments from this division, if
any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Engineering and Public Works Divisions Review. The Draper City Engineering and Public
Works Divisions have completed their reviews of the Home Occupation Conditional Use
Permit submission. Comments from these divisions, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Building Division Review. The Draper City Building Division has completed their review of
the Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit submission. Comments from this division, if
any, can be found in Exhibit A.




H&B Supply, LLC.                                                    App. # 2025-0023-USE
Home Occupation Conditional Use Request        6
Fire Division Review. The Draper City Fire Marshal has completed his review of the Home
Occupation Conditional Use Permit submission. Comments from this division, if any, can
be found in Exhibit A.

Noticing. Notice has been properly issued in the manner outlined in the City and State
Codes.



STAFF RECOMMENDATION

Staff recommends that the Planning Commission review the request based on the findings
and criteria for approval, or denial as listed within the staff report. The Planning
Commission should also review the request, hear from the applicant, and receive public
comment prior to making a decision.

If the Planning Commission decides to approve the request, staff recommends they include
the following conditions of approval:

         1.      That all requirements of the Draper City Engineering, Public Works, Building,
                 Planning, and Fire Divisions are satisfied.
         2.      That a Draper City business license shall be obtained and maintained by the
                 business owner for as long as the business remains in operation.
         3.      That all customers coming to the home shall be by appointment only
                 between the hours of 9:00 am and 6:00 pm.
         4.      That only one (1) customer shall be at the property at a time.
         5.      That all customers coming to the home shall park in the off-street parking
                 stall on the driveway as shown on the approved site plan.
         6.      That any ammunition sold by the business shall not be stored at the subject
                 property



MODEL MOTIONS AND FINDINGS

Sample Motion for Approval – I move that we approve the Home Occupation Conditional
Use Permit, as requested by Nicholas Roble representing H&B Supply, LLC. application
2025-0023-USE, based on the following findings for approval, the criteria for approval, and
subject to the conditions listed in the Staff Report dated March 25, 2025.

Findings for approval:

         1. The proposed use will not be detrimental to the health, safety or general warfare
            of persons residing or working in the vicinity, or will be injurious to property or
            improvements in the vicinity.



H&B Supply, LLC.                                                     App. # 2025-0023-USE
Home Occupation Conditional Use Request         7
        2. The propose use is necessary or desirable to provide a service or facility which
           will contribute to the general well-being of the neighborhood and the
           community.
        3. The proposed use complies with the regulations and conditions specified in
           Section 9-4-104 of the 1999 DCMC for home occupations.
        4. The proposal complies with the standards for approval found in the 1999 DCMC,
           Subsection 9-2-104(e) including the regulations in Section 9-4-104 of and
           potential negative impacts to adjacent properties and the public welfare are
           mitigated through the imposition of reasonable conditions necessary or
           desirable for the protection of the same.

I move that we approve the Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit, as requested by
Nicholas Roble representing H&B Supply, LLC. application 2025-0023-USE, based on the
findings for approval and subject to the conditions listed in the Staff Report dated March
25, 2025 and as modified by the following additional findings or conditions:

        1. (List any additional findings…)
        2. (List any additional conditions…)

Sample Motion for Denial – I move that we deny the Home Occupation Conditional Use
Permit, as requested by Nicholas Roble representing H&B Supply, LLC. application 2025-
0023-USE, based on the following findings and the criteria for denial as listed in the Staff
Report dated March 25, 2025.

Findings for denial:

    1. The proposed use will be detrimental to the health, safety or general warfare of
       persons residing or working in the vicinity, or will be injurious to property or
       improvements in the vicinity.
    2. The propose use is not necessary or desirable to provide a service or facility which
       will contribute to the general well-being of the neighborhood and the community.
    3. The proposed use does not comply with one or more of the regulations or
       conditions specified in Section 9-4-104 of the 1999 DCMC for home occupations.
    4. The proposal does not comply with the standards for approval found in the 1999
       DCMC, Subsection 9-2-104(e) including the regulations in Section 9-4-104 of and
       potential negative impacts to adjacent properties and the public welfare are
       mitigated through the imposition of reasonable conditions necessary or desirable
       for the protection of the same.




H&B Supply, LLC.                                                     App. # 2025-0023-USE
Home Occupation Conditional Use Request        8
                       DEVELOPMENT REVIEW COMMITTEE ACKNOWLEDGEMENT


We, the undersigned, as duly appointed members of the Draper City Development Review
Committee, do acknowledge that the application which provides the subject for this staff
report has been reviewed by the Committee and has been found to be appropriate for
review by the Draper City Planning Commission and/or City Council.


                               DIgilally siflnM By Rood Reimscnussel                                  Oigrlairy sgnoO Dy Todd A
                               DN:C-US,                                                               Draper
                                      roimscnussel@draperutah.gov,
Reed Reimschussel OaOtepcr Cily, OUiDraper City Public Works                    Todd A Draoer
                                                                                                      DN C-US.

                               OopOiftmertt, CN-Recd Rcimschusael                         ^   0«Drapor Cit/ Planning,
                               Date; 2025.04.04 05:27.SO-06’00'                                       CN«To<Jd A. Draper
                                                                                                      B5t5T?02r!TTO5T?*I7BTO
Draper City Public Works Department                                         Draper City h       iai   II   III
                                                                                                                 ig UIVISIQT) y
  <●

                                                                                                   , i
   V



D ra p e flCity?ir^^ ^                           ent
                                                                       A.
                                                                            ^rfDer City Legal Counsel
                             DigdaAy signed by Matthew Symes
                             0\ C»US.

Matthew Symes City
              E>m«ii symes@draperul3h gov. O-Oraper
                   Corp , CN>Mpithew Symes
                             Date; 2025 04.01 09:49:1S-06W




Draper City Building Division
                                     EXHIBIT A
                                DEPARTMENT REVIEWS

REVIEWS ARE NOT MEANT TO BE AN ALL INCLUSIVE LIST OF POSSIBLE COMMENTS OR
CONDITIONS.



Planning Division Review.

      1.     No additional comments

Engineering and Public Works Divisions Review.

      1.     The present and future requirements for transportation, traffic, water, sewer,
             and other utilities for the subject site do not appear to be detrimentally
             impacted as described. Given the location and proposed use, the use is not
             anticipated to generate a significant impact to water, sewer, or other
             potential utilities.

      2.     The number of trips generated by the home owner as the applicant and no
             employees with only an occasional customer(s) visiting the residence will not
             have a detrimental impact to traffic in the area. The applicant indicated that
             the customers will be infrequent and consist of facilitating transfer of fire
             arms per federal firearms license requirements. The potential for issues with
             traffic would be if the applicant decided to have multiple vehicles parked
             along eagle chase drive impacting the ability of traffic to pass. The capacity of
             the fronting public street is design for typical neighborhood traffic and based
             limited customers, does not represent a significant impact to the street
             capacity. Based on the description of the traffic generated by the business,
             the number of trips generated by the associated occupation is limited. Based
             on the statements of the applicant about limited customers, no significant
             impact to traffic is anticipated with the proposed use.

      3.     The applicant indicated that all needed parking is available in the existing
             driveway. The subject home is located on a public street where currently on-
             street parking is permitted. All proposed parking should be within the garage
             or driveway. The potential for issues with parking would be if the applicant
             decided to have multiple potential customer(s) come to the subject residence
             at the same time resulting in significant vehicles parked on the fronting
             street. Based on the information from the applicant, no significant impact to
             parking is anticipated with the proposed use.
       4.     The proposed use does not appear detrimental to the health, safety, or
              general welfare of the persons residing or working in the vicinity, or injurious
              to the property or improvements in the vicinity.

Building Division Review.

       1.     No additional comments

Fire Division Review.

       1.     No additional comments
  EXHIBIT B
VICINITY MAP
 EXHIBIT C
AERIEL MAP
  EXHIBIT D
LAND USE MAP
 EXHIBIT E
ZONING MAP
EXHIBIT F
SITE PLAN
 EXHIBIT G
FLOOR PLAN
              Front Door




1st Floor
            North
      EXHIBIT H
APPLICANT STATEMENTS
                                    Home Occupation Questionnaire
Overview of Proposed Use

    ●​ Please provide a description of your proposed business and use including parking, hours of operation, expected
       patrons and or employees, and proposed site improvements if necessary. Include details of reasonably
       anticipated detrimental effects to adjacent properties and the neighborhood (such as traffic or noise) and any
       mitigation measures that can alleviate those effects.

My proposed business is H & B Supply LLC. H & B Supply LLC will operate as a Federal Firearms Licensee (FFL) with a
specific focus on law enforcement programs and internet transfers for the local community. The business will not have
regular hours of operations due to the infrequency of in-person transactions being required. I am a retired Special Agent
with Union Pacific Railroad Police and will be the sole owner/employee of the business. I expect 1-2 people a week will
come by the house to facilitate a firearms transfer with no impact on adjacent properties or the neighborhood.



Compliance With Standards

    ●​ Describe how the proposed use is in compliance and harmony with the objectives and requirements of the city’s
       general plan.
       The home-based FFL business is in compliance and harmony with the objectives and requirements of the city’s
       general plan due to appropriate land use and economic development. The home-based FFL does not impede
       adjacent property owners while helping to foster a robust local economy.

    ●​ Explain the suitability of the specific property for the proposed use:
       The property is suitable for the home-based FFL due to a small office inside the residence that will be used by
       the business with no impact on the surrounding properties.

    ●​ Whether or not the proposed use may be injurious to potential or existing development in the vicinity?
       The proposed use of a home-based FFL at the residence will not be injurious to potential or existing
       development in the vicinity.

    ●​ Describe the economic impact of the proposed facility or use on the surrounding area:
       There will be no economic impact on the surrounding area with the proposed use of the home-based FFL
       business.

    ●​ Describe the aesthetic impact of the proposed facility or use on the surrounding area:
       There will be no aesthetic impact on the surrounding area with the proposed use of the home-based FFL
       business.

    ●​ What Safeguards are proposed or provided to ensure adequate utilities, transportation access, drainage,
       parking, loading space, lighting, screening, landscape, open space, fire protection, and pedestrian and vehicular
       circulation?
       Owner will maintain residence in accordance with neighborhood standards while informing visitors of the rules
       and regulations.

    ●​ What safeguards will be provided or proposed to prevent noxious or offensive emission such as noise, glare,
       dust, pollutants and odor from the proposed facility or use?
       There will be no noxious or offensive emissions from the residence due to the nature of the business. A
       computer, printer, and telephone will be the only items used, all items commonly found in all residences.
   ●​ Describe the impact of the proposed facility or use on the health, safety, and welfare of the city, the area, and
      persons owning or leasing property in the area.

       There will be no impact on people in the area.



Analysis of Home Occupation Standards Deviation

Please provide an explanation how you meet the following standards or how your proposed business requires a
deviation from one or more of these standards. If it doesn’t apply mark N.A.

   ●​ Ownership: The home occupation shall be owned and operated by a person who resides in the dwelling where
      the home occupation is located. Such person shall be the primary provider of the labor, work, or service provided
      in the home occupation.
      H & B Supply LLC is owned and operated by a resident of the dwelling.

   ●​ Business License: A business license for the home occupation shall be obtained from and continually maintained
      with the city pursuant to title 6, chapter 11 of this code.
      A City of Draper business license will be obtained when approved to do so.

   ●​ Employees: Members of the family of the owner who reside in the dwelling may be employed in the home
      occupation. Nonfamily or nonresident employees shall be limited to one person.
      I will be the sole responsible person/owner of H & B Supply LLC.

   ●​ Inspection: All facilities shall comply with fire, building, plumbing, electrical and all other city, county, state and
      federal codes. Inspections during reasonable hours by city officials may occur as necessary to assure compliance
      with regulations.
      The residence will comply with all applicable codes.

   ●​ Inventory: No stock in trade, inventory, or other merchandise to exceed two hundred fifty (250) square feet shall
      be kept on the premises. No outside storage is allowed. (Ord. 909, 7-21-2009)
      No inventory will exceed two hundred and fifty (250) square feet with no items being stored outside the
      dwelling.

   ●​ Modification Of Structures Or Yards: There shall be no visible evidence from the exterior of a dwelling that it is
      being used for any other purpose than that of a dwelling. No activities shall be carried on outside the dwelling in
      the yard for the benefit of or incidental to the home occupation. No front yard area shall be altered to provide
      parking required for a home occupation. (Ord. 1132, 2-17-2015)
      No modifications are requested or required for the home-based FFL.

   ●​ Nuisance: Tools, items, equipment, or activities conducted within the dwelling which are offensive or noxious by
      reason of the emission of odor, smoke, gas, vibration, magnetic interference, or noise shall be prohibited.
      No activities will be conducted that will result in offensive odor, smoke, gas, vibration, noise, etc.

   ●​ Secondary Use: The home occupation shall be clearly incidental and secondary to the primary use of the
      dwelling for residential purposes. The home occupation shall not disrupt the normal residential character of the
      neighborhood in which the residence is located. Not more than twenty five percent (25%) of the dwelling unit
      shall be used for the home occupation.
      The home-based FFL business will be clearly incidental and secondary to the primary use of the dwelling for
      residential purposes.
●​ Signs: All signage in a residential area must comply with chapter 26, "Signs", of this title.
   No signs will be posted or displayed.

●​ Traffic, Parking, And Access: No home occupation use shall generate pedestrian, parking, or vehicular traffic in
   excess of that customarily associated with the zone in which the use is located. All parking shall be provided and
   maintained on site with adequate provision for drop off traffic.
   The home-based FFL will not generate pedestrian, parking, or vehicular traffic in excess of that customarily
   associated with the residential zone.

●​ Vehicles: Other than the business owner's personal transportation, there shall be no vehicles or equipment on
   the property associated with the home occupation which would not normally be found at a residence. No
   signage for the home occupation shall be allowed on vehicles.
   Only my personal transportation will be present at the property with no signage displayed.

●​ Yards: Yards surrounding the dwelling and accessory buildings shall not be used for any activities or storage of
   any materials associated with the home occupation.
   The yard will not be used for any activities or storage associated with the home-based FFL business.

●​ Customers: No customers allowed. Children accessing a limited daycare or limited preschool facility shall not be
   considered customers.
   1-2 customers a week are expected at the residence for approximately 30 minutes at a time to complete
   necessary paperwork for the firearms transfer.

●​ Utility Demand: The home occupation shall not cause a demand for public utilities in excess of that necessarily
   and customarily provided for residential uses.
   No additional utility demand.

●​ Main Structure: The home occupations shall be conducted, located, and contained within the primary structure
   on the property. (Ord. 909, 7-21-2009)
   Home-based FFL business will be conducted and located within the primary structure.

●​ Single-Family And Multiple-Family Dwellings: Home occupations listed as permitted or conditional within this
   title may be permitted in a single-family or a multiple-family dwelling, subject to the standards found within this
   section and section 9-34-060 of this chapter. Businesses within multiple-family dwellings shall provide an
   approval letter from the respective homeowners' association, or management company in the case of
   apartments, if the business proposes any employees, customers or business vehicles. (Ord. 1132, 2-17-2015)

●​ Licensure: Any home occupation involving childcare shall comply with all applicable state and local laws and
   regulations regarding residential childcare, including, but not limited to, provisions of the Utah child care
   licensing act, as set forth in Utah Code Annotated section 26-39-101 et seq., as amended, and the residential
   certificate childcare standards as set forth in the Utah administrative code section R430-50-1 et seq., as
   amended. In addition, cottage food production operations are regulated and inspected by the Utah department
   of agriculture. Any food related home occupation under their jurisdiction must comply with these regulations.
   (Ord. 909, 7-21-2009)
A complete description of the business being conducted.

The business will consist of on-line firearms transfers to the local community. A
customer will order a firearm from another dealer, many times located in another state,
and have it shipped to me, as required by federal law. I will receive the shipment, no
different than an Amazon delivery with the exception of it being an adult signature
required. I will log the firearm into my book, as required by federal law, and inform the
customer that their firearm is ready for pickup. The customer will come over to the
house and complete the required federal paperwork and submit to an instant
background check through Utah BCI. Once cleared, the firearm will be given to the
customer and they leave.

What does a business interaction with a customer involve from the time they arrive to
the time they leave?

The customer will arrive and provide the necessary documentation for the firearms
transfer. I will conduct an instant background check with Utah BCI. If approved, the
customer will sign for the firearm and leave.

Are firearms being assembled at the property?

No.

Is ammunition also sold?

Ammunition could be sold if ordered by the customer. No ammunition for sale will be
stored on the premises.

Do you store your products/inventory in the location listed on your site plan?

Yes, firearms that are being transferred to a customer are stored in a locked gun cabinet
in the 1st floor office.

How are appointments scheduled?

Appointments will be scheduled telephonically with myself.

Is there a limit regarding how many customers come to the property during a single
scheduled appointment?

One customer per scheduled appointment.
Will allowing a customer to park on your driveway prohibit you or any others who reside
in the dwelling from accessing/leaving the garage? If so, how will you mitigate this?

If a customer parks in the driveway when access is needed, I will tell them to move their vehicle
to the other side of the driveway to provide the access, if needed.
