MEMO
To: Planning Commission
From: Maryann Pickering, AICP
Date: 2025-05-08
Re: Public Hearing: Jackson Office Building Site Plan Request (Administrative Action)


Comments:


This application is a request for approval of a site plan for approximately 2.38 acres
located on the east side of 700 East, at approximately 11757 S. 700 East. The property is
currently zoned CN (Neighborhood Commercial). The applicant is requesting that a site
plan be approved to allow for the development of the currently vacant site with an office
building.




Findings for approval:


  1. The site plan reflects the full development of the property.
  2. The site plan conforms to applicable standards set forth in ordinance, including but
     not limited to, building heights, setbacks, access points, parking, landscaping, and
     building materials.
  3. When in compliance with the included conditions, the proposed development plans
     meet the intent, goals, and objectives of the general plan and the purpose of the CR
     zoning district in which the site is located.
  4. The public facilities and services in the area are adequate to support the subject
     development, as required by engineering standards and specifications.
  5. The proposed development plans will comply with the engineering standards found
     in Titles 7, 8, 11, 12, 16, and 18 of the DCMC, including traffic, storm water drainage,
     and utilities concerns.




Findings for denial:


  1. The proposed site plan does not conform to applicable standards set forth in
     ordinance, including but not limited to, building heights, setbacks, access points,
     parking, landscaping, and building materials.
  2. The proposed development plans do not meet the intent, goals, and objectives of
     the general plan or the purpose of the CN zoning district in which the site is located.
  3. The proposed development plans do not comply with one or more of the
     engineering standards found in Titles 7, 8, 11, 12, 16, and 18 of the DCMC.


ATTACHMENTS:

05-08-2025 PC Report (Jackson).pdf
