MEMO
To: City Council
From: Travis DeJong.
Date: 2025-07-01
Re: Public Hearing: Providing Local Consent for a Full-Service Restaurant License for Basta
Pasteria 1 LLC dba Basta Pasteria


Comments:

Basta Pasteria 1 LLC dba Basta Pasteria located at 278 E 12300 S Suite 106 is seeking Local
Consent for a Full-Service Restaurant license. They have provided the following:

- Liquor liability insurance.
- Bond payable to the Department of Alcoholic Beverage Services.
- Floor map showing where alcohol is to be served, stored, and consumed.
- Sales tax license.
- A background check conducted by the Bureau of Criminal Identification.
- Proof of being lawfully present in the United States.

Basta Pasteria 1 LLC dba Basta Pasteria has applied for a commercial business license
numbered CBL-4248-2025. It is set to expire on 6-30-2026.



The findings for Local Consent approval are as follows:

DCMC 6-4-040 requires that a full-service restaurant be at least three hundred feet (300')
away from any community location (schools, churches, public libraries, public
playgrounds, and public parks) measured by the shortest pedestrian route taken from
the nearest patron entrance of the restaurant to the property boundary of the
community location.

Basta Pasteria 1 LLC dba Basta Pasteria has met this requirement.

DCMC 6-4-040 requires that a full-service restaurant be at least two hundred feet (200')
away from any community location (schools, churches, public libraries, public
playgrounds, and public parks) measured in a straight line from the nearest patron
entrance of the restaurant to the property boundary of the community location.

Basta Pasteria 1 LLC dba Basta Pasteria has met this requirement.
DCMC 6-4-050 places no restrictions on the number of full-service restaurant licenses
that can be granted by the City.


ATTACHMENTS:

Liquor Liability Form.pdf
ATTACHMENTS:

Floor Plan.pdf
ATTACHMENTS:

Bond.pdf
ATTACHMENTS:

Utah Sales Tax License.pdf
ATTACHMENTS:

Local Consent PowerPoint.pdf
