MINUTES OF THE DRAPER CITY COUNCIL MEETING HELD ON TUESDAY, OCTOBER 21,
2025, IN THE DRAPER CITY COUNCIL CHAMBERS, 1020 EAST PIONEER ROAD, DRAPER,
UTAH

PRESENT:     Mayor Troy K. Walker, and Councilmembers Mike Green, Bryn Heather
             Johnson, Tasha Lowery, Fred Lowry, and Marsha Vawdrey (excused at
             7pm)
EXCUSED:
STAFF:       Mike Barker, City Manager; Kellie Challburg, Assistant City Manager;
             Scott Cooley, City Engineer and Public Works Director; Spencer
             DuShane, Assistant City Attorney; Rich Ferguson, Chief of Police; Todd
             Draper, Planning Manager; Rhett Ogden, Parks and Recreation Director;
             Linda Peterson, Communications Director; Nicole Smedley, City
             Recorder; Steve Pearson, Deputy Fire Chief; Derek Orth, Human
             Resource Director; Jake Sorensen, Network Manager; Todd Taylor,
             Planner; and John Vuyk, Finance Director
______________________________________________________________________

Study Session

Discussion: Salt Lake County Convention and Tourism Assessment Area
Tyson Lippert, Chief Sales Officer with Visit Salt Lake, introduced Chief Financial
Officer Bart Blaisdell, Chief Sports Officer Clay Partain, and local hoteliers in
attendance. Mr. Lippert provided an update on the Salt Lake County Convention and
Tourism Assessment Area, and reported revenue growth for hotels in the South
Valley area.

Discussion: Traverse Ridge Special Service District (TRSSD) Lighting
Robert Markle said the TRSSD Board made a formal request that Draper City Public
Works take over maintenance, repair, and replacement of the approximately 160
street lights in the TRSSD. Mr. Markle said financial details were not yet worked out,
but the Board wanted to know if the request was something the Council would
entertain. He said street lighting was currently included in the special service tax, but
commented that tracking costs and requesting reimbursement was not easy.

Councilmember T. Lowery said her concern was that TRSSD lighting was different
than standard City lighting, and significantly more expensive and difficult to maintain.
She asked if the City would replace the lighting with less expensive City standard
lighting. Mr. Markle responded the request was to maintain and replace existing
                                                                               1|Page
        Draper City Council DRAFT Meeting Minutes – October 21, 2025
TRSSD lighting with the same product. Councilmember Green said he believed if the
City agreed to take over TRSSD lighting, standard City lighting would need to be used
when replacement was needed. Mr. Markle said the Board had not been in favor of
switching to standard lighting in the past, but said the situation may have changed
with new members of the Board. Councilmember T. Lowery said she did not think
the City should be in the business of maintaining different lighting systems for every
neighborhood. A majority of the Council indicated support for taking over TRSSD
street lighting and replacing the TRSSD lights with City standard lighting.

Discussion: General Plan Water Use and Preservation Element
Todd Taylor, Planner, said the State required adoption of a General Plan Water Use
and Preservation Element by December 31, 2025. He presented a draft, highlighting
implementation measures, and answered questions from the Council.

Discussion: 800 E 12200 S Neighborhood Area Study
Planning Manager Todd Draper showed an aerial map and Future Land Use Map
(FLUM) of the 800 East 12200 South neighborhood area. The Council and staff
discussed current zoning in the area, and the push by the State for the “missing
middle” with small, stand-alone residential lots. Mr. Draper spoke of incongruence in
the area with uses that did not conform with current zones, and showed a map of
current uses. Staff presented the following options for the Council to consider: leave
the FLUM as it was, or direct staff to look into amending the FLUM, possibly followed
by City-initiated rezoning. Mr. Draper stated that City-initiated zoning changes might
create more nonconformities, but would set the area up for the direction the Council
wanted.

The Council and staff discussed buffering. Councilmember Green said he did not
want to change the FLUM, considering everything already happening around
Kimballs Lane. Councilmember T. Lowery said she would not be comfortable with
broad rezoning at that time. Councilmember Johnson said she supported the current
lower-density zone. The Council discussed development agreements and the control
they provided the City. A majority of the Council indicated a desire to not amend the
FLUM for the 800 East 12200 South neighborhood area.

Council/Manager Reports
• Councilmember T. Lowery said residents in Suncrest were grateful for the wood
  chipping service, and thanked Rhett Ogden for volunteering a wood chipper for
  the project.



                                                                            2|Page
•    City Manager Mike Barker said as far as he was aware, Councilmember Johnson
     was the only member of the Council who received an email from Utah Transit
     Authority (UTA) with the UTA Tentative Budget. He said the email included a form
     to sign indicating receipt of the Tentative Budget, and said he was not sure if
     signing and returning the form was required. Mayor Walker said the Tentative
     Budget was available on the UTA website, and said signing and returning the form
     was not required.
•    Parks and Recreation Director Rhett Ogden reported that an arborist had been
     hired and would begin with the City the following Monday.
•    Public Works Director/Engineer Scott Cooley reported 13800 South would be
     open for traffic the next Thursday, with continued shoulder work.
•    Linda Peterson reported suggested names for a plastic “mountain lion” found on
     a City trail had been submitted by the public, and asked the Council to review the
     list prior to adoption as a City mascot. The Council agreed to narrow the list of
     suggested names to three, with the three names then placed on social media for
     public vote. Ms. Peterson confirmed the Police Department had not received a
     lost object report for the plastic mountain lion.
•    Mr. Barker reported the need to appoint a Draper representative to the Jordan
     Basin Improvement District. The representative could be the Mayor or a member
     of the Council, or a selection process was in place to appoint someone else. Mayor
     Walker expressed willingness to serve as the representative, and a majority of the
     Council indicated support.
•    Councilmember T. Lowery said she received an email with a request for the City
     to partner with an organization for a holiday light display fundraiser night.
     Members of the Council expressed interest, and requested more information.

Business Session

1.    Call to Order by Mayor Troy K. Walker

2.    Pledge of Allegiance led by Parks and Recreation Director Rhett Ogden

3.    Oaths of Office - Fire Department Promotion
      Continued to a future meeting

4.    Proclamation
      Mayor Walker read into the record a proclamation declaring November 1, 2025
      to be Extra Mile Day in Draper City, and encouraged residents to go the extra
      mile in their own lives. Mayor Walker recognized long-time Draper resident Jean


                                                                              3|Page
     Hendricksen as an Extra Mile Hero, and presented a certificate to the children
     of Ms. Hendricksen in attendance. The Council took the opportunity for a
     photograph.

5.   Proclamation
     Mayor Walker read into the record a proclamation recognizing November 8-15,
     2025 as Kindness Week Worldwide.

6.   Public Comments
     Sarah Brinkerhoff, Draper Library Branch Manager, spoke of a Tiny Art Show
     scheduled to begin November 10, 2025. She invited the City Council and City
     staff to participate in judging the event.

7.   Consent Items
     7.a October 7, 2025 City Council Meeting Minutes
     7.b Resolution #25-56 authorizing the Mayor to grant a public utility easement
         on real property owned by Draper City for the Jenson Farm Park
     7.c Resolution #25-57 conveying real property while retaining access
         easements to enable development according to the terms of the Warhorse
         Ranch Development Agreement
     7.d Resolution #25-58 appointing Tasha Lowery as a member of the Draper
         City Audit Committee

     Councilmember T. Lowery moved to approve the Consent Agenda.
     Councilmember Green seconded the motion.

     A roll call vote was taken. The motion passed unanimously.
                                          Yes No      Absent
     Councilmember Green                    X
     Councilmember Johnson                  X
     Councilmember T. Lowery                X
     Councilmember F. Lowry                 X
     Councilmember Vawdrey                              X

8.   Items for Council Consideration
     8.a Public Hearing: Ordinances #1678 and #1679 amending the Zoning Map
         for approximately 0.83 acres from RA2 (Residential Agricultural) to RM2
         (Multi-family Residential) and an ordinance amending the Land Use Map
         for the same property from Residential Low/Medium Density to Residential

                                                                          4|Page
         High-Density located at 625 East 11900 South, known as the Kimball’s
         Junction Addition Zoning Map and Land Use Map Amendments
         Planning Manager Todd Draper presented proposed amendments to the
         Zoning Map and Land Use Map for the Kimball’s Junction Addition. He said
         the Planning Commission reviewed the proposed amendments and
         forwarded a positive recommendation with a unanimous vote.

         Mayor Walker opened a public hearing.

         Brandon Watson with Edge Homes said Edge Homes wanted to annex the
         subject property into the development agreement for their current
         development project. He said the subject property would be incorporated
         into the concept plan if the proposed amendments were approved. Mr.
         Watson said the subject property would help with the discussed path along
         the canal, and would allow access for the development to 11900 South.

         Mayor Walker closed the public hearing.

         Councilmember F. Lowry moved to approve Ordinances #1678 and #1679.
         Councilmember T. Lowery seconded the motion.

         A roll call vote was taken. The motion passed unanimously.
                                             Yes No      Absent
         Councilmember Green                  X
         Councilmember Johnson                X
         Councilmember T. Lowery              X
         Councilmember F. Lowry               X
         Councilmember Vawdrey                             X

9.   Recess to a Draper City Community Reinvestment Agency Meeting
     Councilmember T. Lowery moved to recess to a Community Reinvestment
     Agency meeting, with intention to return to regular Council meeting.
     Councilmember Green seconded the motion.

     A roll call vote was taken. The motion passed unanimously.
                                        Yes No      Absent
     Councilmember Green                 X
     Councilmember Johnson               X
     Councilmember T. Lowery             X

                                                                         5|Page
      Councilmember F. Lowry            X
      Councilmember Vawdrey                           X

      The Council returned to regular meeting at 7:35 pm.

10.   Action Items
      10.a Ordinance #1681 dissolving the Draper Gateway Community Development
           Project Area adopted by the City Council of Draper City, Utah
           Councilmember T. Lowery moved to approve Ordinance #1681.
           Councilmember Green seconded the motion.

          A roll call vote was taken. The motion passed unanimously.
                                               Yes No      Absent
          Councilmember Green                   X
          Councilmember Johnson                 X
          Councilmember T. Lowery               X
          Councilmember F. Lowry                X
          Councilmember Vawdrey                              X

      10.b Resolution #25-53 approving a reimbursement agreement with Lloyd’s TLC
          Limited for the consideration of public improvements in the area of
          Bangerter Parkway and 13800 South and 150 East in Draper
          City Manager Mike Barker explained a proposed reimbursement
          agreement for public improvements in the area of Bangerter Parkway at
          13800 South and 150 East. Mr. Cooley explained Bangerter Parkway and
          13800 South both needed to be widened, with a dedicated right turn at
          13800 South onto Bangerter Parkway, and improvements were needed at
          150 East from Bangerter Parkway. Mr. Cooley said the project site was
          challenged by traffic movements, and proposed improvements were
          expected to alleviate existing problems and accommodate development.
          He answered questions from the Council about specific planned right and
          left turn lanes.

          Councilmember F. Lowry motioned to approve Resolution #25-53.
          Councilmember Johnson seconded the motion.

          A roll call vote was taken. The motion passed unanimously.
                                              Yes No      Absent
          Councilmember Green                  X

                                                                        6|Page
          Councilmember Johnson              X
          Councilmember T. Lowery            X
          Councilmember F. Lowry             X
          Councilmember Vawdrey                            X

      10.c Resolution #25-55 updating the Draper City Tree Guide to reflect tree
          species, Firewise planting practices, and other best practices
          Mr. Ogden said the Tree Committee had put a lot of time into updating the
          Draper City Tree Guide. He highlighted proposed updates, and answered
          questions from the Council.

          Councilmember T. Lowery moved to approve Resolution #25-55.
          Councilmember Johnson seconded the motion.

          A roll call vote was taken. The motion passed unanimously.
                                              Yes No     Absent
          Councilmember Green                  X
          Councilmember Johnson                X
          Councilmember T. Lowery              X
          Councilmember F. Lowry               X
          Councilmember Vawdrey                             X

11.   Adjournment
      Councilmember Johnson moved to adjourn the meeting. Councilmember T.
      Lowery seconded the motion, which passed by unanimous voice vote.

      The meeting adjourned at 7:47 pm.




                                                                          7|Page
