MINUTES OF THE DRAPER CITY PLANNING COMMISSION MEETING HELD ON
THURSDAY, MARCH 13, 2025, IN THE DRAPER CITY COUNCIL CHAMBERS

PARTICIPATING: Andrew Adams, Chair
               Lisa Fowler, Vice-Chair
               Commission Member Susan Nixon
               Commission Member Gary Ogden
               Alternate Commission Member Laura Fidler
               Alternate Commission Member Christine Green

NOT SITTING:           Alternate Commission Member Shivam Shah


EXCUSED:               Commission Member Mary Squire
                       Commission Member Kendra Shirey

STAFF:                 Jennifer Jastremsky, Community Development Director
                       Amie Salazar, Office Manager
                       Traci Gundersen, City Attorney
                       Spencer DuShane, Assistant City Attorney
                       Todd Draper, Planning Manager
                       Maryann Pickering, City Planner
                       Brien Maxfield, Senior Engineering Manager

6:30 PM Business Meeting

Chair Andrew Adams called the meeting to order at 6:33 PM and welcomed those present.

1.     Items for Commission Consideration.

       A.      Public Hearing: Parr Fence Conditional Use Permit Request
               (Administrative Action)
               On the Request of Shaun Sudbury, Representing the ASP Trust, a Request for
               Approval of a Conditional Use Permit for a fence taller than six Feet on approximately
               2.31 acres located at approximately 12885 South Boulter Street and known as
               Application 2024-0426-USE. Staff Contact: Maryann Pickering, (801) 576-6391, or
               maryann.pickering@draperutah.gov.

City Planner, Maryann Pickering, presented the Staff Report and stated that the request is for a
Conditional Use Permit for the construction of a fence taller than six feet on approximately 2.31 acres
located at 12885 South Boulter Street backing up to Porter Rockwell Trail. The Land Use Designation
for the property is Residential Low/Medium Density with split zoning of RA1 and RA2. The site
plan and vicinity maps were displayed. The proposed fence is to be located at the rear property line,
adjacent to the trail. Ms. Pickering reported that there are similar fences along the trail of varying
materials and heights. One letter of opposition was received and forwarded to the Commission. There
was discussion regarding the heights of nearby fences and previous applications.
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
March 13, 2025
Page 2

Shaun Sudbury, Clay Parr, and Brad Packer were present on behalf of the applicant. Mr. Sudbury
stated that the fence will align with the neighboring fence. Chair Adams asked for clarification on
the height of the neighboring fence. Mr. Sudbury stated that the height of the neighboring fence also
exceeds six feet. Due to the height of the trail, an eight-foot fence will appear from the trail to be a
fence of approximately six feet. He noted that there had been incidents of break-ins and/or trespassing
on the property in July, August, October, and November, leading to safety concerns.

Chair Adams asked if the fence will match the height and material of the neighboring fence.
Mr. Sudbury confirmed that it would.

Chair Adams opened the public hearing.

David Hendrickson, a neighbor, asked if there will be a gate on the east side of the property and if the
elevation on the east side will be matched around the property. He asked if the entire parcel will be
fenced.

There were no further public comments. Chair Adams closed the public hearing.

Brad Packer stated that the fence will be of the same material as the fence to the south and both fences
will have a gate. He reported that a matching three-rail farm fence was proposed between the two
houses on the parcel but that had not yet been fully decided. He noted that the objective is to get
privacy from the trail rather than between neighbors.

Vice-Chair Fowler asked for clarification on the height of the fence to the south of the property.
Mr. Sudbury explained that the adjacent fence sits on top of a two-foot-tall footing and the trail sits
an average of an additional two feet above the footing. There was discussion regarding the height of
the fence and the footing being combined. The average height above the footing is two feet.
Ms. Pickering clarified that the maximum height can be eight feet including the footings. This request
complies with that requirement.

Motion: Commissioner Ogden moved to APPROVE the Conditional Use Permit, as requested
by Shaun Sudbury, Application 2024-0426-USE, based on the following:

Findings for Approval:

       1.      Reasonable mitigation measures are placed on the conditional use to alleviate
               anticipated detrimental effects.

Conditions of Approval:

       1.      That all requirements of the Draper City Engineering, Building, and Planning
               Divisions are satisfied throughout the construction of the fence, including
               permitting.

       2.      That the new replacement fencing shall not exceed eight feet in height and shall
               be constructed only in the locations indicated on the approved plan.
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
March 13, 2025
Page 3


Second: Commissioner Fowler seconded the motion.

Vote on Motion: 5-to-0 in favor.

          Commissioner Yes           No     Abstained      Not Participating       Absent
          Fowler            X
          Squire                                                                        X
          Ogden             X
          Nixon             X
          Shirey                                                                        X
          Fidler, Alternate X
          Shah, Alternate                                            X
          Green, Alternate X

       B.      Public Hearing: Packer Fence Conditional Use Permit Request.
               (Administrative Item)
               On the Request of Shawn Sudbury, representing the Malama and Polihale Trusts, a
               Request for Approval of a Conditional Use Permit for a fence taller than six Feet on
               approximately 2.43 acres located at approximately 12939 South Boulter Street, Known
               as Application 2024-0428-USE. Staff Contact: Maryann Pickering, (801) 576-6391
               or maryann.pickering@draperutah.gov.

Ms. Pickering presented the Staff Report and stated that the property is directly to the south of the
property in Item A and is currently under construction with a residence and accessory buildings. The
Land Use Designation for the property is Residential Low/Medium Density with split zoning of RA1
and RA2. The site plan and vicinity maps were displayed. The proposed fence is to be located at the
rear property line adjacent to the trail. Due to the difference in grade, the proposed fence is to be
eight feet tall in addition to the footings. Ms. Pickering reiterated previous comments regarding the
variety of heights and fencing materials that exist along the trail. One letter in opposition was received
via email and was forwarded to the Commission.

Shaun Sudbury and Brad Packer were present on behalf of the applicant. Mr. Sudbury stated that
there has been backfilling on the fencing and the homeowner proposed additional backfill on the
opposite end to maintain a continuous height. He noted that the fence had been in place for
approximately nine months before he learned that a Conditional Use Permit (“CUP”) was required.
In response to Commission comments, Mr. Sudbury acknowledged that the new section of the fence
will not be as tall as the adjacent fence.

Chair Adams opened the public hearing.

Dianne Driggs, a neighbor, asked if the approval was just for the fence along the trail or if it would
apply to the full property.

There were no further public comments. Chair Adams closed the public hearing.
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
March 13, 2025
Page 4


Ms. Pickering identified on the map the section of the fence that the CUP was applicable to. There
was discussion regarding the concerns expressed in the letter of opposition that views would be
blocked by allowing fences to be taller than allowed under the Code. It was felt that this was
addressed by the dip in the backyard and not an issue for this property. Chair Adams noted that the
view being blocked was from the trail onto private property.

Motion: Commissioner Nixon moved to APPROVE the Conditional Use Permit, as requested
by Shaun Sudbury, Application 2024-0428-USE, subject to the following:

Findings for Approval:

       1.       Reasonable mitigation measures are placed on the conditional use to alleviate
                anticipated detrimental effects.

Conditions of Approval:

       1.       That all requirements of the Draper City Engineering, Building, and Planning
                Divisions are satisfied throughout the construction of the fence, including
                permitting.

       2.       That the new replacement fencing shall not exceed ten feet in height and shall be
                constructed only in the locations indicated on the approved plan.

Second: Commissioner Ogden seconded the motion.

Vote on Motion: 5-to-0 in favor.

            Commissioner Yes       No     Abstained    Not Participating     Absent
            Fowler            X
            Squire                                                                X
            Ogden             X
            Nixon             X
            Shirey                                                                X
            Fidler, Alternate X
            Shah, Alternate                                     X
            Green, Alternate X

       C.       Public Hearing: Ty Wadsworth Land Use and Zoning Map Amendment
                Request.
                (Legislative Action)
                On the request of Ty Wadsworth, Amendments to the General Plan Land Use Map
                Designation from Residential Hillside Low Density to Residential Low/Medium
                Density and to the Zoning Map from A5 to RA2 on approximately 2020 East Pioneer
                Road. Known as Applications 2025-0011-MA and 2025-0009-MA. Staff Contact:
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
March 13, 2025
Page 5

               Maryann Pickering, (801) 576-6391, or maryann.pickering@draperutah.gov.

Ms. Pickering presented the Staff Report and stated that the request is for a Land Use Map
Amendment and Zoning Map Amendment for approximately 0.86 acres located at the southwest
corner of Pioneer Road and Highland Drive at approximately 2020 East Pioneer Road. The property
is vacant and was previously used by the City of Riverton for water storage. The vicinity, aerial, land
use, and zoning maps were displayed. Ms. Pickering noted that the land use is currently Residential
Hillside Low-Density and it is proposed to change to Residential Low/Medium Density. The property
is currently zoned A5 and would be rezoned to RA2. There are no proposed projects at this time but
the development of a single-family home in the future is anticipated. Zoning compliance for setbacks,
height, access, and any other items will be done as part of the building permit review process. No
public comments were received.

In response to a request for clarification on the ownership of the lot, Ms. Pickering stated that the
property was previously owned by the City of Riverton but is now owned by the applicant. The
Commissioners asked if there were examples of other properties where zoning had been changed to
match what was on the other side of the street rather than the adjacent properties. Community
Development Director, Jennifer Jastremsky stated that the boundaries are in the center of the road, so
the property is adjacent to RA2.

In response to a question raised by Chair Adams, Ms. Pickering confirmed that there is space for only
one single-family home on the property. It was noted that the property is non-conforming to size as
to the A5 zone but will be conforming as to the RA2 zone.

The applicant’s representative, Brandon Coleman, commented that there was no point in maintaining
the zoning as A5.

Chair Adams opened the public hearing. There were no public comments. The public hearing was
closed.

Commissioner Nixon considered the request to be reasonable and will bring the property more in line
with the proposed zoning.

Motion: Commissioner Nixon moved to forward a POSITIVE recommendation to the City
Council for the Land Use Map Amendment as requested by Ty Wadsworth for the Ty
Wadsworth Land Use Map Amendment, Application 2025-0011-MA, based on the following:

Findings for Approval:

       1.      The proposed land use map amendment is consistent with the goals, objectives,
               and policies of the City’s General Plan.

       2.      The proposed Land Use Map Amendment is harmonious with the overall
               character of existing development in the vicinity of the subject property.
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
March 13, 2025
Page 6

      3.       The proposed land use map amendment will not adversely affect adjacent
               property.

      4.       There are adequate facilities and services intended to serve the subject property,
               including, but not limited to, roadways, parks and recreation facilities, police and
               fire protection, schools, stormwater drainage systems, water supplies, and
               wastewater and refuse collection.

      5.       The proposed land use map amendment complies with DCMC Section 9-2-
               020(F).

      6.       The legislative body may adopt any amendment to the general plan land use map
               that the legislative body considers appropriate.

Second: Commissioner Fowler seconded the motion.

Vote on Motion: 5-to-0 in favor.

           Commissioner Yes        No    Abstained      Not Participating    Absent
           Fowler            X
           Squire                                                                 X
           Ogden             X
           Nixon             X
           Shirey                                                                 X
           Fidler, Alternate X
           Shah, Alternate                                      X
           Green, Alternate X

Motion: Commissioner Fowler moved to forward a POSITIVE recommendation to the City
Council for the Zoning Map Amendment, as requested by Ty Wadsworth for the Ty
Wadsworth Zoning Map Amendment, Application 2025-0009-MA, subject to the following:

Findings for Approval:

      1.       The proposed zoning map amendment is consistent with the goals, objectives, and
               policies of the City’s General Plan.

      2.       The proposed zoning map amendment is harmonious with the overall character
               of existing development in the vicinity of the subject property.

      3.       The proposed zoning map amendment is consistent with the standards of any
               applicable overlay zone.

      4.       The proposed zoning map amendment will not adversely affect adjacent
               property.
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
March 13, 2025
Page 7


       5.       There are adequate facilities and services intended to serve the subject property,
                including, but not limited to, roadways, parks and recreation facilities, police and
                fire protection, schools, stormwater drainage systems, water supplies, and
                wastewater and refuse collection.

Second: Commissioner Nixon seconded the motion.

Vote on Motion: 5-to-0 in favor.

            Commissioner Yes        No    Abstained      Not Participating    Absent
            Fowler            X
            Squire                                                                 X
            Ogden             X
            Nixon             X
            Shirey                                                                 X
            Fidler, Alternate X
            Shah, Alternate                                      X
            Green, Alternate X

       D.       Public Hearing:      Farmer Residence Development Agreement Request.
                (Legislative Item)
                On Behalf of Vincent Rampton, Representing Kelsie and Orrin Farmer, a
                Development Agreement for approximately 0.32 Acres, located at approximately 902
                East 12650 South, Known as Application 2024-0348-DA. Staff Contact: Todd A.
                Draper, (801) 576-6335 or todd.draper@draperutah.gov.

Planning Manager, Todd Draper, presented the Staff Report and stated that the request was for a
Development Agreement for approximately 0.32 acres located at approximately 902 East 12650
South. The vicinity, aerial, land use, and zoning maps were displayed. The property is zoned RA1.
The land use is Neighborhood Commercial. The applicant is requesting that a Development
Agreement be approved to allow for a side (west) yard setback reduction for the corner lot to
accommodate the development of the site with a single-family home. Mr. Draper reviewed the
proposed home briefly, noting that access will be from 900 East. There will be a detached garage on
the rear of the property. Setback requirements are met on the front and rear of the property and a
reduced setback is requested on the west side. The Development Agreement will allow for alignment
of the driveway toward 900 East, reduction of the west setback as discussed, and the ability to
construct the desired home plan while providing the City with indemnification. An additional private
road widening was requested to 24 feet with a limit on the dwelling units to one. It was noted that
the intent was to preserve on-street parking near the park. Photos of the property and surrounding
area were displayed. One public comment was received in favor of the project.

Commissioner Nixon’s understanding was that the Development Agreement limits the property to
one dwelling and asked if it would preclude any potential Accessory Dwelling Units (“ADU”). Mr.
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
March 13, 2025
Page 8

Draper reported that it would remove any ADUs from consideration. The concern was that an ADU
on the property would potentially lead to the City losing on-street parking.

In response to questions regarding the driveway, Mr. Draper reviewed the drawings and stated that it
is greater than 20 feet in length. It does, however, cross the property lines that were shown in blue.
Ownership issues were discussed. Mr. Draper referred to the County Map which indicates that it is
part of the right-of-way. The City’s Transportation Master Plan showed it as a private street. There
was discussion regarding concerns with approving development on property with undetermined
ownership. Ms. Jastremsky reported that both the City and the property owner’s representative
conducted title searches and were unable to confirm ownership of the section of the road in question.
Indemnification of the City was included in the Development Agreement.

Chair Adams asked for clarification on the reason for requiring a Development Agreement.
Ms. Jastremsky confirmed that the reduced setbacks were the primary reason for the agreement. The
road is currently approximately 21 feet and will be widened to 24 feet with the approval of the Fire
Marshal.

Commissioner Nixon asked if single-family homes are allowed on a property with a land use of
Neighborhood Commercial. Mr. Draper explained that the land use will not be changed. The zoning
specifies what can be done. This zoning is RA1 and this is a historic piece of property. He noted that
the property is zoned residential and previously had a home on it that had burned down.

Vincent Rampton was present on behalf of the applicant. He acknowledged the issue of ownership
of the private roadway and adjacent land and stated that the Development Agreement indemnifies the
City. The applicant believes the line of trees marks the property line. He noted that the road has been
deemed private and if it is ever claimed as a public road, it will be divided up. They believe what is
proposed will benefit the City as the property has been an eyesore for some time. He noted that the
home will have a detached garage that will not be an ADU. He noted that it will be a taxable parcel.

Chair Adams opened the public hearing.

Jeneen Sylvester Nelsen reported that her father once owned the property where the road was as well
as at least two acres on the west side of the lane. The road is more in line with 900 East. She noted
that the trees are where the red line is shown. She expressed concern with the ability to see oncoming
traffic near the top of the lane as well as navigating the corner. She had seen documentation showing
that her father gave the land to the County to avoid paying taxes on something he could not use.

Rob Longacre, a neighboring property owner, stated that there was a home on the property for many
years that had burned down. The property has been vacant for some time. There was a problem with
the location of the previous garage and he contacted the City regarding property ownership. He noted
that the other owners on the lane would like to see the proposed home built.

There were no further public comments. Chair Adams closed the public hearing.

Chair Adams referenced the site plan and stated that it appeared that the location of the front of the
home will be further back than the footing of the former garage. There was discussion regarding
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
March 13, 2025
Page 9

whether the private lane could be gated in the future. Senior Engineering Manager, Brien Maxfield,
stated that the other owners of the lane also have rights to it so it must remain open.

Motion: Commissioner Fowler moved to forward a POSITIVE recommendation to the City
Council for the Farmers Residence Development Agreement, as requested by Vincent
Rampton, representing Kelsie and Orrin Farmer, Application 2024-0348-DA based on the
following:

Finding for Approval:

       1.       The proposed Development Agreement complies with DCMC Subsections 9-5-
                200(C) and (D).

Second: Commissioner Ogden seconded the motion.

Vote on Motion: 5-to-0 in favor.

            Commissioner Yes        No     Abstained      Not Participating     Absent
            Fowler            X
            Squire                                                                    X
            Ogden             X
            Nixon             X
            Shirey                                                                    X
            Fidler, Alternate X
            Shah, Alternate                                        X
            Green, Alternate X

       E.       Public Hearing: City Initiated Deviations for Government Buildings Text
                Amendment Request. (Legislative Item)
                On the request of Draper City a Text Amendment to enact a new Draper City
                Municipal Code Section 9-27-250 in order to exempt city-owned or constructed
                buildings from architectural design standards and to allow for increased building
                heights for buildings owned or operated by other governmental entities. Known as
                Application 2025-0049-TA. Staff Contact: Jennifer Jastremsky, (801) 576-6328.
                jennifer.jastremsky@draperutah.gov.

Ms. Jastremsky presented the Staff Report and stated that the proposal is to create an exemption and
deviation within the Code. The first part will exempt public buildings owned and built by Draper
City from architectural design standards. The second part would add up to five feet in height deviation
with additional setbacks for buildings owned and operated by public entities such as the State, School
District, or municipality. There was discussion regarding the inclusion of exceptions and impacts on
neighboring properties. Ms. Jastremsky reviewed examples, including the restroom facilities at
trailheads and wash bay additions to park buildings, She noted that there is no reason for them to meet
the architectural standards. Chair Adams asked if the Community Center in the Town Center Plan
would be exempt under this amendment. Ms. Jastremsky confirmed that it could be.
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
March 13, 2025
Page 10


It was suggested that a building size be set that would be exempt. It was acknowledged that a Public
Works Building or Community Center would be significant to the community and should match with
standards. Chair Adams noted that City Hall would have been exempt but exceeds the design
guidelines. He agreed that there should be an amendment regarding size. It was suggested that the
matter be continued to allow staff time to come up with a building size that would no longer be
exempt.

Commissioner Nixon supported the government in setting the standard and complying with its own
regulations. Howver, she felt more comfortable given the proposed language in the amendment that
takes taxpayer cost savings into account.

Chair Adams asked if there was any reason not to continue the item. Ms. Jastremsky stated that the
text amendment was noticed for the next City Council Meeting but it could be continued if so desired
by the Commission. Chair Adams asked for clarification on the process for continuance and
amending the language. Staff noted that the Commission could forward a recommendation that the
City Council consider an amendment.

Assistant City Attorney, Spencer DuShane explained that he had investigated the issue of municipal
buildings meeting architectural standards and stated that the current City building is attractive but
does not meet the stringent architectural standards. In preparing the proposed text amendment, he
contacted different cities that have recently built new Public Works Buildings. For example, West
Jordan’s new building meets their architectural standards. They did not exempt themselves but when
they remodeled their City Hall they had to use a different building as a home base. The new Public
Works Building for West Jordan was built to the City's standards because it is public-facing and where
the public comes to do business with the city. Mr. DuShane stated that that was also the case with
their City’s new Parks and Rec Building.

Chair Adams asked how the City Hall building deviates from the current standards. Ms. Jastremsky
stated that it predates the Town Center zoning, which currently requires 80% brick on all sides. The
building does not have that. When the police wing addition was made, a deviation was requested to
match the existing building. It was clarified that City buildings would still be subject to landscape,
parking, and other standards, but the amendment would exempt building design standards only. This
would include things like primary materials, variations in the façade, rooflines, and similar.

Chair Adams asked about the impetus for the text amendment. Ms. Jastremsky stated that a New
Public Works Building is being proposed and the Fire Department plans to do some work in the future
on the existing Logistics Building. Mr. Maxfield stated that currently, the Public Works Building is
in the budgetary planning phase. They are trying to make it work within the budget.

Commissioner Fowler stressed the need to spend money wisely and stated that the public has a vested
interest in that property values are tied to how the City looks. She was concerned about giving away
the ability to review significant buildings. She felt that the citizens would support a review.

Chair Adams asked what cities had a similar exemption. Mr. DuShane stated that Murray and Sandy
cities have exemptions in the Code. He noted that the City’s architectural standards tend to be strict.
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
March 13, 2025
Page 11

As a result, it is easier for cities that recently built new Public Works Buildings to come in under their
current architectural standards and be under budget.

Commissioner Fowler suggested continuing the matter to allow staff time to consider an addition of
a size restriction. Commissioner Ogden asked what size would be appropriate. Commissioner Fowler
encouraged staff to look at Public Works Buildings in other cities as well as Recreation Centers and
other buildings and make a recommendation.

Chair Adams understood the need to budget and preferred to have a functional building that works
for the city and saves money. He asserted that city buildings are being paid for with public dollars
and are not-for-profit. He suggested that they add a size restriction.

Chair Adams opened the public hearing. There were no public comments. The public hearing was
closed.

Motion: Commissioner Fowler moved to CONTINUE Draper City Application 2025-0049-TA
to a future Planning Commission Meeting asking staff to consider including a size limit for
buildings that are exempt from the Building Design Standards.

Second: The motion died for lack of a second.

Chair Adams suggested that the item be moved forward with the strong recommendation that size be
evaluated and considered by the City Council.

Motion: Commissioner Fowler moved to forward a POSITIVE recommendation to the City
Council for the City Initiated Deviations for Government Buildings Text Amendment, as
requested by Draper City, Application 2025-0049-TA, based on the following findings with a
request that the City Council consider size restrictions for buildings that would be exempt from
this section of the Code.

Finding for approval:

       1.      The proposed development agreement complies with DCMC Subsection 9-5-
               060(E)(2).

Second: The motion died for lack of a second.

Commissioner Fowler suggested that another Commissioner may need to make a motion.

Motion: Commissioner Nixon moved to forward a POSITIVE recommendation to the City
Council for the City Initiated Deviations for Government Buildings Text Amendment, as
requested by Draper City, Application 2025-0049-TA, based on the following:

Findings for approval:
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
March 13, 2025
Page 12

         1.       The proposed Text Amendment meets the standards found in DCMC Section 9-
                  5-060(E)(2).

Second: Commissioner Ogden seconded the motion.

Vote on Motion: The motion passed 4-to-1.

              Commissioner Yes       No     Abstained    Not Participating    Absent
              Fowler                 X
              Squire                                                               X
              Ogden             X
              Nixon             X
              Shirey                                                               X
              Fidler, Alternate X
              Shah, Alternate                                     X
              Green, Alternate X

         F.       Public Hearing: Veranda West Master Area Plan Amendment and Zoning Text
                  Amendment. (Legislative Item)
                  On the Request of Keith Hansen of AE Urbia, Representing City Centre Draper
                  Holdings, LLC, Request for Approval of a Master Area Plan Amendment and Zoning
                  Text Amendment for approximately 31.27 acres located at approximately 13708 South
                  600 West. Known as Application No. 2024-0336-MAP and 2024-0456-TA. Staff
                  Contact: Todd Taylor, (801) 576-6510 or todd.taylor@draperutah.gov.

The above item was continued to the March 27, 2025 meeting.

2.       Staff Business.

Ms. Jastremsky reported on the following:

        She reminded the Commissioners to send her headshots for their security badges.

        The Commission was updated on the Town Center Station Area Plan that was approved by
         the City Council the previous week. Modifications were made to reduce the height of the
         buildings directly next to the Parkstone development to three stories. The renderings were
         also updated. Language was added to require fencing to be updated or maintained along the
         Parkstone development.

        Mr. Draper reported that the agenda for March 27 will include the Annual Required Planning
         and Duties Training. Mr. DuShane reported that it would be entertaining.

3.       Adjournment.

Motion: Commissioner Nixon moved to ADJOURN and the Chair adjourned the meeting
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
March 13, 2025
Page 13


The meeting adjourned at 7:57 PM.
