                           Development Review Committee
                                1020 East Pioneer Road
                                  Draper, UT 84020
                                       July 17, 2025

To:            Draper City Planning Commission
               Business Date: July 31, 2025

From:          Development Review Committee

Prepared By: Paul J. Geilman, Planning Coordinator
             Planning Division
             Community Development Department
             801-576-6551, paul.geilman@draperutah.gov

Re:     Indigo Tech Center- Zoning Map Amendment Request
        Application No.: 2025-0131-MA
        Applicant:        Jeremy Pixton, representing Mashies Golf Lounge, LLC
        Project Location: 14198 S Minuteman Dr.
        Current Zoning: CO2 (Professional Office Zone)
        Acreage:          2.84 Acres (Approximately 123,710 ft2)
        Request:          Request for approval of a Zoning Map Amendment from the CO2
                          zone to CR zone (Regional Commercial) for the purpose of
                          allowing future businesses to operate under the Recreation and
                          Entertainment Indoor use classification.



BACKGROUND AND SUMMARY
This application is a request for approval of a Zoning Map Amendment for approximately
2.84 acres located on the east side of Minuteman Dr. at approximately 14193 S Minuteman
Dr. (Exhibit C & D). The property is currently zoned CO2. The applicant is requesting that a
Zoning Map Amendment be approved to allow for a future Recreation and Entertainment,
Indoor business. Golf Simulator Business to operate under the Use Classification of
“Recreation and Entertainment, Indoor.”



ANALYSIS
General Plan and Zoning.

 Table 1               General Plan and Zoning Designations                      Exhibit



Indigo Tech Center                                                 App. # «JS_File_Number»
Zoning Map Amendment                         1
 Existing Land Use     Regional Commercial                                           Exhibit E
 Current Zoning        CO2                                                           Exhibit F
 Proposed Use          Recreation and Entertainment, Indoor
 Adjacent Zoning
     East              CR
     West              M1 (Light Manufacturing)
     North             CR
     South             CR

The Regional Commercial land use designation is characterized as follows:




According to Draper City Municipal Code (DCMC) Section 9-8-020, the purpose of the CR
zone is “to provide areas where a combination of destination oriented business, retail
commercial, entertainment, and related uses may be established, maintained and protected to
serve both residents and nonresidents of the city. Typical uses in this zone include large scale,
master planned commercial centers with outlying commercial pads, big box stores, and offices.”

The primary differences between the CR and CO2 zones, is that in the CR zone typically
allows for a greater variety of uses than the CO2 zone which has a narrower focus on office
and laboratory uses.

The following uses are not permitted in the CO2 zone but are conditional uses in the
CR zone:
Auto truck RV and equipment storage,




Indigo Tech Center                                                     App. # «JS_File_Number»
Zoning Map Amendment                            2
Car wash,
Commercial vehicle and equipment repair,
Construction sales and services,
Recreation and entertainment outdoor,
Vehicle repair limited

The following are not permitted in the CO2 zone but are permitted uses in the CR
zone:
Commercial vehicle and equipment rental or sale,
Gas and fuel storage and sales,
Gasoline service station,
Grooming service,
Laundry service,
Nursery,
Parking commercial,
Precious metals and gems dealer,
Recreation and entertainment indoor,
Recycling collection station,
Repair service,
Restaurant,
Retail general,
Secondhand or thrift store,
Tattoo establishment,
Vehicle rental,
Vehicle sale,
Veterinary service,

Medical or dental laboratory is the only use that is permitted in the CO2 zone and not
permitted in the CR zone. The applicant has not indicated any intent to operate any other
use besides recreation and entertainment indoor at this time.

Criteria For Approval.
A Map Amendment is a matter committed to the legislative discretion of the City Council
and is not controlled by any one standard. However, in making a recommendation to the
City Council, the Planning Commission should consider the following factors in Section 9-5-
060(E) of the DCMC:

        1. Map Amendments:
            a. Whether the proposed amendment is consistent with goals, objectives and policies
               of the city's general plan;
            b. Whether the proposed amendment is harmonious with the overall character of
               existing development in the vicinity of the subject property;




Indigo Tech Center                                                   App. # «JS_File_Number»
Zoning Map Amendment                           3
            c. Whether the proposed amendment is consistent with the standards of any
               applicable overlay zone;
            d. The extent to which the proposed amendment may adversely affect adjacent
               property; and
            e. The adequacy of facilities and services intended to serve the subject property,
               including, but not limited to, roadways, parks and recreation facilities, police and
               fire protection, schools, stormwater drainage systems, water supplies, and
               wastewater and refuse collection.



REVIEWS

Planning Division Review. The Draper City Planning Division has completed their review of
the Zoning Map Amendment submission. Comments from this division, if any, can be
found in Exhibit A.

Engineering and Public Works Divisions Review. The Draper City Engineering and Public
Works Divisions have completed their reviews of the Zoning Map Amendment submission.
Comments from these divisions, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Building Division Review. The Draper City Building Division has completed their review of the
Zoning Map Amendment submission. Comments from this division, if any, can be found in
Exhibit A.

Fire Division Review. The Draper City Fire Marshal has completed his review of the Zoning
Map Amendment submission. Comments from this division, if any, can be found in Exhibit
A.

Legal Division Review. The Draper City Attorney has completed their review of the Zoning
Map Amendment submission. Comments from this division, if any, can be found in Exhibit
A.

Noticing. Notice has been properly issued in the manner outlined in the City and State
Codes.



STAFF RECOMMENDATION
Staff recommends that the Planning Commission review the request, receive public
comment, and makes decisions based on the findings listed below and the criteria for
approval, or denial, as listed within the staff report.



MODEL MOTIONS



Indigo Tech Center                                                      App. # «JS_File_Number»
Zoning Map Amendment                             4
Sample Motion for Approval – I move that we forward a positive recommendation to the
City Council for the Zoning Map Amendment, as requested by Jeremy Pixton representing
Mashes Golf Lounge, LLC, application 2025-0131-MA, based on the following findings and
the criteria for approval listed in the Staff Report dated July 17, 2025.

Findings for Approval:
1.     The proposed zoning map amendment is consistent with goals, objectives, and
       policies of the city's general plan.
2.     The proposed zoning map amendment is harmonious with the overall character of
       existing development in the vicinity of the subject property.
3.     The proposed zoning map amendment is consistent with the standards of any
       applicable overlay zone.
4.     The proposed zoning map amendment will not adversely affect adjacent property.
5.     There are adequate facilities and services intended to serve the subject property,
       including, but not limited to, roadways, parks and recreation facilities, police and fire
       protection, schools, stormwater drainage systems, water supplies, and wastewater
       and refuse collection.

Sample Motion for Modified Approval– I move that we forward a positive recommendation
to the City Council for the Zoning Map Amendment, as requested by Jeremy Pixton
representing Mashes Golf Lounge, LLC, application 2025-0131-MA, based on the findings
and criteria for approval listed in the Staff Report dated July 17, 2025 and as modified by
the following additional findings:

       1. (List any additional findings …)



Sample Motion for Denial – I move that we forward a negative recommendation to the City
Council for the Zoning Map Amendment, as requested by Jeremy Pixton Representing
Mashes Golf Lounge, LLC, application 2025-0131-MA, based on the findings and criteria for
denial listed in the Staff Report dated July 17, 2025.

Findings for Denial:
1.     The proposed zoning map amendment is not consistent with goals, objectives, and
       policies of the city's general plan.
2.     The proposed zoning map amendment is not harmonious with the overall character
       of existing development in the vicinity of the subject property.
3.     The proposed zoning map amendment will adversely affect adjacent property.
4.     There are not adequate facilities and services intended to serve the subject
       property, including, but not limited to, roadways, parks and recreation facilities,
       police and fire protection, schools, stormwater drainage systems, water supplies,
       and wastewater and refuse collection.



Indigo Tech Center                                                    App. # «JS_File_Number»
Zoning Map Amendment                           5
                                      EXHIBIT A
                                 DEPARTMENT REVIEWS

REVIEWS ARE NOT MEANT TO BE AN ALL INCLUSIVE LIST OF POSSIBLE COMMENTS OR
CONDITIONS.



Planning Division Review.

       1.     No additional comments.

Engineering and Public Works Divisions Review.

       1.     The adequacy of facilities and services intended to serve the subject
              property, including but not limited to roadways, parks and recreation
              facilities, police and fire protection, schools, storm water drainage systems,
              water supplies, and waste water and refuse collection; Other than noted
              below, we are not aware of any inadequacies of the facilities intended to
              serve this property.
              a.       The change in zone from Commercial Office (CO2) to Regional
                       Commercial (CR) is proposing to change from one commercial zone to
                       another commercial zone. This change in zoning does not necessarily
                       represent a change in demand on the streets and utilities. The
                       proposed zone has a wide range of permitted and conditional uses.
                       The site has access to Minuteman Drive, a minor commercial collector
                       street. Based on the capacity of the fronting public street, the change
                       in zone modifies to the potential uses within the existing site. Any
                       change in use would still be subject to review, but it is not anticipated
                       to represent a significant increase in traffic to the level where
                       mitigation measures would be anticipated. Typically, a use where 100
                       peak hour trips are generated triggers the need to have a traffic
                       impact study (TIS) completed to analyze mitigation requirements. The
                       size of the subject parcel and the potential number of trips generated
                       from a parcel of this size does not automatically trigger a TIS. There
                       are public frontage improvements on the fronting public streets.

              b.      Connectivity with the subject parcel to public right-of-way is to
                      Minuteman Drive, a minor commercial collector. Access onto the
                      fronting street is existing with the site, as it is currently developed.
                      Accesses are required to meet Draper City standards as outlined in
                      our Master Transportation Plan and city code. Any change in the
                      development will need to be evaluated for access location to comply
                         with the required spacing based on the city’s access spacing
                         requirements. Access is evaluated at the time of a site plan or
                         subdivision application.

               c.        There are existing storm drainage facilities fronting the subject parcel.
                         It is not anticipated that any change in storm drainage would be
                         needed with the change in zoning. Any future change in site drainage
                         will be required to be addressed with any subdivision or site plan
                         application and shall comply with the provisions of the development
                         requirements within the Draper City Municipal Code.

               d.        Sanitary sewer facilities will be provided by Jordan Basin Improvement
                         District. Any subdivision or site plan application will require a
                         commitment to serve from the sewer district that facilities are
                         adequate to provide service for the proposed uses.

               e.        Drinking water is provided by WaterPro to the subject parcel. Any
                         subdivision or site plan application will require a commitment to serve
                         from WaterPro that facilities are adequate to provide service for the
                         proposed uses.

Building Division Review.

       1.      No additional comments

Fire Division Review.

       1.       No additional comments

Legal Division Review.

       1.      No additional comments
                                      EXHIBIT B
                                  LEGAL DESCRIPTION

    Beginning at point that is North 207.00' and East 230.71' from the Southwest Corner of
Section 6, Township 4 South Range 1 East, Said Point being on the East Right of Way line
of the 1-15 East Frontage Road, known as Minuteman Drive, said point also being the true
point of beginning North 206.95' and East 50.70' from the County Witness Corner
Monument located on Section Line and in the Centerline of Said Minuteman drive; thence
   South 89 degrees 51 minutes 21 seconds East (S 89"51'21" E), a distance of
429.29 feet; thence
   South 00 degrees 00 minutes 00 seconds West (S 00·00•00" W), a distance of 152.45
   feet;
thence
   South 60 degrees 45 minutes 04 seconds West (S 60'45'04" W), a distance of 234.37
feet; thence
   Along a curve to the Left having a radius of 1060.00 feet, arc length of 62.74 feet, delta
angle of 03 degrees 23 minutes 28 seconds ( 03"23'28"), a chord bearing of South 59
degrees 03
minutes 20 seconds West (S 59"03'20" W), and a chord length of 62.73 feet; thence
    South 57 degrees 21 minutes 36 seconds West (S 57"21'36" W), a distance of 189.54
feet; thence
    Along a curve to the Right having a radius of 124.00 feet, arc length of 51.53 feet, delta
angle of 23 degrees 48 minutes 32 seconds ( 23'48'32"), a chord bearing of South 69
degrees 15
minutes 52 seconds West (S 69'15'52" W), and a chord length of 51.16 feet; thence
    Along a curve to the Left having a radius of 2904.79 feet, arc length of 422.59 feet,
delta angle of 08 degrees 20 minutes 07 seconds ( 08'20'07"), a chord bearing of North 04
degrees 57
minutes 09 seconds East (N 04"57'09" E), and a chord length of 422.22 feet to the true
point of beginning;
                Containing 2.85 Acres, or 124182 square feet.
  EXHIBIT C
VICINITY MAP
 EXHIBIT D
AERIAL MAP
  EXHIBIT E
LAND USE MAP
 EXHIBIT F
ZONING MAP
       EXHIBIT G
APPLICANT QUESTIONAIRE
                          Exhibit G Applicant Questionnaire

Zoning Map Amendment Request

  1. I am requesting a zoning change from CO2 to CR
  2. The reason for the request is to allow for a golf simulator business to be in one of
     the office spaces. It will be used by mostly tenants of the three office buildings in
     the complex but would also like to allow other businesses and individuals to sign up
     for memberships. The business will also have a conference room but because of
     the golf simulators being considered recreational usage the zoning would need to
     be changed from CO2 to CR to accommodate this type of business.
  3. The current zoning is CO2 but is surrounded by CR land. The original land usage
     was set for CR use based on the current land use map. My understanding is that
     the building was built originally to be complaint with all CR requirements. There is
     plenty of parking and it will not interfere with any business surrounding the area it
     was built to be complaint with CR usage and has sufficient parking 5 per 1000
     square feet of useable office space vs 4 per 1000 office space for CO2. The complex
     has two entrances that come from Minuteman Dr. This means there will be no
     problems with any of the surrounding neighborhoods and traffic to the office
     complex will not change based on this usage change.
  4. Roadways and Utilities will not change under the proposed zoning as the buildings
     were built to be complaint to CR usage.
  5. The proposed Zoning designation is consistent with the goals objectives and policies
     of the city’s general plan as the land was originally set for CR zoning, and the
     surrounding properties are all zoned CR. The golf simulator business will also
     mainly be for meetings and as an amenity to the tenants of these 3 office buildings.
