MEMO
To: Planning Commission
From: Todd Taylor
Date: 2025-04-24
Re: Public Hearing: Academy Plaza Zoning Text Amendment (Legislative Item)


Comments:

This application is a request for approval of a Zoning Text Amendment to the CSD-DPMU
zone to add two new districts, an office/warehouse/limited manufacturing district and a
vertical mixed use district, and development standards related to the new districts. The
CSD-DPMU zone includes the Academy Plaza site, which is approximately 7.7 acres in
size, and is located at approximately 383 W 13490 S. The Academy Plaza site would be
designated to allow the uses identified in the new districts.



Findings for Approval:

  1. The proposed amendment is consistent with goals, objectives and policies of the
     City's General Plan;
  2. The proposed amendment furthers the specific purpose statements of the zoning
     ordinance;
  3. The proposed amendment is appropriate given the context of the request and there
     is sufficient justification for a modification to the zoning ordinance;
  4. The proposed amendment will not create a conflict with any other section or part of
     the zoning ordinance or the General Plan;
  5. The potential effects of the proposed amendment have been evaluated and are
     determined not to be detrimental to public health, safety, or welfare and represents
     an overall community benefit; and
  6. The proposed text amendment implements best current, professional practices of
     urban planning, design, and engineering practices.



Findings for Denial:

  1. The proposed amendment is not consistent with goals, objectives and policies of
     the City's General Plan;
  2. The proposed amendment does not further the specific purpose statement of the
     Draper Pointe Mixed Use Commercial Special District;
  3. The proposed amendment is not appropriate given the context of the request and
     there is not sufficient justification for a modification to the zoning ordinance;
  4. The proposed amendment could create a conflict with another section or part of the
     zoning ordinance or the General Plan;
  5. The potential effects of the proposed amendment have been determined to be
     detrimental to public health, safety, or welfare or do not represent an overall
     community benefit; and
  6. The proposed text amendment is not consistent with best current, professional
     practices of urban planning, design, and engineering practices.


ATTACHMENTS:

Academy Plaza TA Staff Report_Finalized.pdf
