                                  Development Review Committee
                                      1020 East Pioneer Road
                                        Draper, UT 84020
                                                 April 11, 2025

To:              Draper City Planning Commission
                 Business Date: April 24, 2025

From:            Development Review Committee

Prepared By: Nick Whittaker, MCMP, Planner II
             Planning Division
             Community Development Department
             801-576-6522, Nick.Whittaker@draperutah.gov

Re:     Janisch Electric – Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit Request
        Application No.: 2024-0373-USE
        Applicant:          James Janisch
        Project Location: 584 W. Sunset Crest Way
        Current Zoning: R3 (Single-Family Residential, 13,000 ft2 minimum lot size) Zone
        Acreage:            0.30 Acres (Approximately 13,068 ft2)
        Request:            Request for approval of an Home Occupation Conditional Use
                            Permit in the R3 zone to operate a Home Office for an electrical
                            contractor including the use and storage of a business vehicle at
                            the property.



BACKGROUND AND SUMMARY

This application is a request for approval of a Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit for
approximately 0.30 acres located on the North side of Sunset Crest Way, at approximately
584 W. Sunset Crest Way (Exhibit C & D). The property is currently zoned R3. The applicant
is requesting that a Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit be approved to allow for a
home office for an electrical contracting business that includes the use of a business
vehicle that is stored at the property.

The property is Lot 108 of the Sunset at Draper Ridge Subdivision, Phase 1. A detached
single-family dwelling was built on the property in 2006. The Home Occupation utilizes an
office located on the main floor of the dwelling and the business vehicle is stored on a
concrete pad on the west side of the driveway when not in use (Exhibits F, G & H).



Janisch Electric                                                  App. # 2024-0373-USE
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit Request         1
ANALYSIS

General Plan and Zoning.

 Table 1                   General Plan and Zoning Designations                          Exhibit
 Existing Land Use         Residential Medium Density                                    Exhibit D
 Current Zoning            R3                                                            Exhibit E
 Adjacent Zoning
    East                   R3
    West                   R3
    North                  R4 (Residential Single-Family)
    South                  R3

The Residential Medium Density land use designation is characterized as follows:




Janisch Electric                                                  App. # 2024-0373-USE
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit Request    2
According to Draper City Municipal Code (DCMC) Section 9-8-020 the purpose of the R3
zone is to, “permit medium density residential development without special mitigation
requirements. This zone is intended to provide incentives to foster residential development
with little impact on its surroundings and on municipal services, and to generally preserve
the semirural character called for in the density element of the general plan.”

Home Occupation. The DCMC Section 9-34-040 outlines development standards applicable
to all home occupations. Those criteria, along with information specific to the subject
request, are as follows:

        A. Ownership: The home occupation shall be owned and operated by a person who
             resides in the dwelling where the home occupation is located. Such person shall
             be the primary provider of the labor, work, or service provided in the home
             occupation.

                 •    The applicant owns the business and resides in the dwelling where the
                      home occupation is located.

        B. Business License: A business license for the home occupation shall be obtained
             from and continually maintained with the city pursuant to title 6, chapter 11 of
             this code.

                 •    The applicant was in the process of renewing his business license with
                      Draper City in July of 2024 when it was discovered that the business was
                      not operating in compliance with the permitted use standards and that a
                      Conditional Use Permit was required. The applicant initially submitted for
                      the Conditional Use Permit in November 2024. Staff has been working
                      with the applicant since that time to have the necessary changes,
                      corrections, and additions to the submitted documentation that has been
                      requested by staff. Contrary to the written applicant’s statements in
                      Exhibit H, they have not had a current business license since August 1st of
                      2024 as approval of the license is pending approval of this Conditional
                      Use Permit.

        C. Employees: Members of the family of the owner who reside in the dwelling may
             be employed in the home occupation. Nonfamily or nonresident employees
             shall be limited to one person.

                 •    The applicant is an electrical contractor and the only employee of the
                      business (Exhibit H).

        D. Inspection: All facilities shall comply with fire, building, plumbing, electrical and
             all other city, county, state and federal codes. Inspections during reasonable



Janisch Electric                                                 App. # 2024-0373-USE
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit Request    3
             hours by city officials may occur as necessary to assure compliance with
             regulations.

                 •    In response to this standard, the applicant indicated that they agree
                      (Exhibit H).

        E. Inventory: No stock in trade, inventory, or other merchandise to exceed two
             hundred fifty (250) square feet shall be kept on the premises. No outside storage
             is allowed.

                 •    The applicant stated they do not exceed 250 ft2 of inventory or
                      merchandise storage at the subject property (Exhibit H). The applicant
                      provided no details as to where this storage is located or the exact square
                      footage, other than to indicate that it isn’t outside.

        F. Modification Of Structures Or Yards: There shall be no visible evidence from the
             exterior of a dwelling that it is being used for any other purpose than that of a
             dwelling. No activities shall be carried on outside the dwelling in the yard for the
             benefit of or incidental to the home occupation. No front yard area shall be
             altered to provide parking required for a home occupation.

                 •    The applicant parks a business vehicle on a concrete pad on the west side
                      of the driveway (Exhibits G & H)

        G. Nuisance: Tools, items, equipment, or activities conducted within the dwelling
             which is offensive or noxious by reason of the emission of odor, smoke, gas,
             vibration, magnetic interference, or noise shall be prohibited.

                 •    In response to this standard, the applicant indicated that tools are loaded
                      in the business vehicle as needed (Exhibit H). No indication was provided
                      that the business will or will not comply with this criterion. Staff
                      recommends that if approved, that compliance with this standard be
                      included as a condition of approval.

        H. Secondary Use: The home occupation shall be clearly incidental and secondary
             to the primary use of the dwelling for residential purposes. The home
             occupation shall not disrupt the normal residential character of the
             neighborhood in which the residence is located. Not more than twenty five
             percent (25%) of the dwelling unit shall be used for the home occupation.

                 •    The home occupation occupies an area of approximately 394 ft2 or about
                      9.4 % of the dwelling units total square footage (Exhibits G & H). The




Janisch Electric                                                 App. # 2024-0373-USE
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit Request    4
                      applicant indicated that there will be no disruption to residential
                      character.

        I.   Signs: All signage in a residential area must comply with chapter 26, "Signs", of
             this title.

                 •    According to the applicant there are no signs associated with the
                      business at the home (Exhibit H).

        J.   Traffic, Parking, And Access: No home occupation use shall generate pedestrian,
             parking, or vehicular traffic in excess of that customarily associated with the
             zone in which the use is located. All parking shall be provided and maintained on
             site with adequate provision for drop off traffic.

                 •    The applicant did not directly respond to this initial question but did
                      indicate elsewhere in their submitted statements found in Exhibit H that
                      no customers come to the home.

        K. Vehicles: Other than the business owner's personal transportation, there shall
             be no vehicles or equipment on the property associated with the home
             occupation which would not normally be found at a residence. No signage for
             the home occupation shall be allowed on vehicles.

                 •    The applicant did not address this question directly in their response,
                      however, the site plan found in Exhibit F the applicant indicates that they
                      park a business vehicle on a concrete pad on the west side of the
                      driveway.

        L. Yards: Yards surrounding the dwelling and accessory buildings shall not be used
             for any activities or storage of any materials associated with the home
             occupation.

                 •    The applicant parks a business vehicle on a concrete pad locate on the
                      west side of the driveway (Exhibits F & H).

        M. Customers: No customers allowed. Children accessing a limited daycare or
           limited preschool facility shall not be considered customers.

                 •    No customers come to the home (Exhibit H).

        N. Utility Demand: The home occupation shall not cause a demand for public
             utilities in excess of that necessarily and customarily provided for residential
             uses.



Janisch Electric                                                  App. # 2024-0373-USE
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit Request    5
                 •    The applicant indicates that they won’t cause a demand for public
                      utilities. (Exhibit H).

        O. Main Structure: The home occupations shall be conducted, located, and
           contained within the primary structure on the property.

                 •    The applicant indicates that they conduct business in an office located on
                      the first floor of the dwelling unit that is approximately 144 ft2 (Exhibits G
                      & H).

        P. Single-Family And Multiple-Family Dwellings: Home occupations listed as
             permitted or conditional within this title may be permitted in a single-family or a
             multiple-family dwelling, subject to the standards found within this section and
             section 9-34-060 of this chapter. Businesses within multiple-family dwellings
             shall provide an approval letter from the respective homeowners' association, or
             management company in the case of apartments, if the business proposes any
             employees, customers or business vehicles.

                 •    The applicant’s property is a single-family dwelling and an approval letter
                      from an HOA or management company is not required.

        Q. Licensure: Any home occupation involving childcare shall comply with all
             applicable state and local laws and regulations regarding residential childcare,
             including, but not limited to, provisions of the Utah child care licensing act, as set
             forth in Utah Code Annotated section 26-39-101 et seq., as amended, and the
             residential certificate childcare standards as set forth in the Utah administrative
             code section R430-50-1 et seq., as amended. In addition, cottage food
             production operations are regulated and inspected by the Utah department of
             agriculture. Any food related home occupation under their jurisdiction must
             comply with these regulations.

                 •    The home occupation does not involve child care or food production.

Criteria For Approval.

The criteria for review and potential approval of a conditional use permit request is found
in Section 9-5-080(E) of the DCMC. This section depicts the standard of review for such
requests as:

        E. Approval Standards: The standards of this subsection shall apply to the issuance
            of a conditional use permit:




Janisch Electric                                                   App. # 2024-0373-USE
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit Request     6
          1. A conditional use permit may be issued for a use to be located within a zone
             where the particular conditional use is allowed by the use regulations of the
             zone.
          2. Reasonable conditions may be imposed as necessary to substantially mitigate
             reasonably anticipated detrimental effects of the proposed use. These
             conditions may include conditions concerning use, construction, character,
             location, landscaping, screening, parking, hours of operation, and other matters
             relating to the purposes and objectives of this section. Such conditions shall be
             expressly set forth in the motion authorizing the conditional use permit.
          3. If the reasonably anticipated detrimental effects of a proposed conditional use
             cannot be substantially mitigated by the imposition of reasonable conditions to
             achieve compliance with applicable standards, the conditional use may be
             denied.
          4. The following factors shall be reviewed and considered in determining whether a
             conditional use permit application should be approved, approved with
             conditions, or denied because reasonable conditions cannot be imposed to
             achieve compliance with applicable standards:
               a. The harmony and compliance of the proposed use with the objectives and
                  requirements of the city's general plan and this title;
               b. The suitability of the specific property for the proposed use;
               c. Whether the proposed use or facility may be injurious to potential or existing
                  development in the vicinity;
               d. The economic impact of the proposed facility or use on the surrounding
                  area;
               e. The aesthetic impact of the proposed facility or use on the surrounding area;
               f. The safeguards proposed or provided to ensure adequate utilities,
                  transportation access, drainage, parking, loading space, lighting, screening,
                  landscaping, open space, fire protection, and pedestrian and vehicular
                  circulation;
               g. The safeguards provided or proposed to prevent noxious or offensive
                  emissions such as noise, glare, dust, pollutants and odor from the proposed
                  facility or use; and
               h. The impact of the proposed facility or use on the health, safety, and welfare
                  of the city, the area, and persons owning or leasing property in the area.
          5. The planning commission may request additional information as may be
             reasonably needed to determine whether the requirements of this subsection E
             can be met.

Staff has reviewed the application and the submitted documentation from the applicant.
The proposed Home Occupation is a home office which is located on the first floor of the
applicant’s residence. As a business vehicle is also part of the business and is stored at the
property when not in use, a Conditional Use Permit is required for operation of the Home
Occupation.



Janisch Electric                                                App. # 2024-0373-USE
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit Request   7
Staff notes that the business vehicle has no signage, and is stored on a concrete surface
located on the property and not in the street which should sufficiently mitigate any
detrimental impacts caused by having a business vehicle at the property.



REVIEWS

Planning Division Review. The Draper City Planning Division has completed their review of
the Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit submission. Comments from this division, if
any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Engineering and Public Works Divisions Review. The Draper City Engineering and Public
Works Divisions have completed their reviews of the Home Occupation Conditional Use
Permit submission. Comments from these divisions, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Building Division Review. The Draper City Building Division has completed their review of
the Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit submission. Comments from this division, if
any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Fire Division Review. The Draper City Fire Marshal has completed his review of the Home
Occupation Conditional Use Permit submission. Comments from this division, if any, can be
found in Exhibit A.

Noticing. Notice has been properly issued in the manner outlined in the City and State
Codes.



STAFF RECOMMENDATION

Staff recommends that the Planning Commission review the request based on the findings
and criteria for approval, or denial as listed within the staff report. The Planning
Commission should also review the request, hear from the applicant, and receive public
comment prior to making a decision.

If the Planning Commission decides to approve the request, staff recommends they include
the following conditions of approval:

    1. That all requirements of the Draper City Engineering, Public Works, Building,
       Planning, and Fire Divisions are satisfied.
    2. That a Draper City business license shall be obtained and maintained by the
       business owner for as long as the business remains in operation.
    3. That only one (1) business vehicle shall be allowed as part of the business and that



Janisch Electric                                             App. # 2024-0373-USE
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit Request   8
         is must be parked on the property in the location shown on the approved site plan
         when at the subject property.
    4.   No customers are permitted to come to the home.
    5.   That employees shall be limited to those residing in the home on the property.
    6.   That all storage of inventory, supplies or merchandise shall be limited to an area of
         less than two-hundred and fifty square feet (250 ft2) and shall be located inside of
         the dwelling unit and not in the garage or other detached structures on the
         property.
    7.   That the business or business operations shall not create any of the nuisances listed
         in DCMC Section 9-34-040(G).



MODEL MOTIONS AND FINDINGS

Sample Motion for Approval – I move that we approve the Home Occupation Conditional
Use Permit, as requested by James Janisch, Application 2024-0373-USE, based on the
following findings for approval and subject to the conditions listed in the Staff Report dated
April 11, 2025.

Findings for approval:

         1. The proposal complies with the standards for approval found in DCMC Section 9-
            5-080(E) and potential negative impacts are mitigated through the imposition of
            reasonable conditions.

I move that we approve the Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit, as requested by
James Janisch, Application 2024-0373-USE, based on the findings for approval and subject
to the conditions listed in the Staff Report dated April 11, 2025 and as modified by the
following additional findings or conditions:

         1. (List any additional findings…)
         2. (List any additional conditions…)

Sample Motion for Denial – I move that we deny the Home Occupation Conditional Use
Permit, as requested by James Janisch, Application 2024-0373-USE, based on the following
findings for denial listed in the Staff Report dated April 11, 2025.

Findings for denial:

         1. The proposal does not comply with all standards for approval found in DCMC
            Section 9-5-080(E).
         2. Potential negative impacts are not able to be sufficiently mitigated through the
            imposition of reasonable conditions.



Janisch Electric                                               App. # 2024-0373-USE
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit Request   9
        3. The limited information provided by the applicant regarding business operations
           leaves open the potential for unidentified additional negative impacts that have
           not been able to be addressed or mitigated.




Janisch Electric                                            App. # 2024-0373-USE
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit Request   10
                     DEVELOPMENT REVIEW COMMITTEE ACKNOWLEDGEMENT

We, the undersigned, as duly appointed members of the Draper City Development Review
Committee, do acknowledge that the application which provides the subject for this staff
report has been reviewed by the Committee and has been found to be appropriate for
review by the Draper City Planning Commission and/or City Council.

                                                                                            Digitally signed by Todd A.
                         Oigitaily signed by Srien Maxtlold                                 Draper
                         DN: C=US,                                                          DN: C=US,
                                                                                            E=todd.draper@draper.ut.us,
                E=bnen.niaxtieid@afaperuiah.gov,
 Brien Maxfield O-Dfapor, OU=Public Works -
                                                                           Todd A. Draper   O=Draper City Planning,
                                                                                            CN=Todd A. Draper
                                                                                            Date: 2025.04.18
                         Engineenng. CN=Brien MaxtielO                                      12:57:58-06'00'
                         Oate-20g5.04.T7 18 47:20-06 Q0’


Draper City Public Works Department                                 Draper City Planning Division

                           Digitally signed by Don Buckley
                           DN; C=US. E-dor.buckley@draocr.uI.us,

Don Buckley                0«0raper City Fire Department, OU-Fire
                           Marshal, CN^Don Buckley
                           Dale-2025 04.17 t5:18:14-06’a0'


Draper City Fire Department

                          Digitally signed By Mattrew Symos

 Matthew Symes O-Oraper City Corp., CN.Mallhew Symes
                          DN: C=US, E=matl.symes@araperulah.gov,
                          Date: 2025.04.17 15;46:23-06’00'




Draper City Building Division
                                      EXHIBIT A
                                 DEPARTMENT REVIEWS

REVIEWS ARE NOT MEANT TO BE AN ALL-INCLUSIVE LIST OF POSSIBLE COMMENTS OR
CONDITIONS.



Planning Division Review.

      1.     Some details in the applicant’s statements and responses lacked clarity,
             appear out of sequence and in some instances provided no useful details
             regarding the home occupation.

      2.     Staff was able to ascertain enough details to determine that the Conditional
             Use Permit requests made in this report are needed, however, if additional
             uses not evaluated or covered in this report should become present or
             otherwise evident in the operation of the applicants Home Occupation, the
             applicant may need to amend their Home Occupation Conditional Use
             Permit at that time.

Engineering and Public Works Divisions Review.

      1.     The present and future requirements for transportation, traffic, water, sewer,
             and other utilities for the subject site do not appear to be detrimentally
             impacted as described. Given the location and proposed use, the use is not
             anticipated to generate a significant impact to water, sewer, or other
             potential utilities.

      2.     The number of trips generated by the home owner as the applicant and no
             employees at the residence will not have a detrimental impact to traffic in
             the area. The applicant indicated no customers will visit the site, where the
             request is to park a work vehicle and have minimal materials on-hand. All
             work is at an offsite work site. The capacity of the fronting public street is a
             local residential street that is designed for regular, low volume traffic. It has
             limited capacity to accommodate the traffic generation. Based on the
             description of the traffic generated by the business, the number of trips
             generated by the applicant is limited. Based on the statements of the
             applicant, no significant impact to traffic is anticipated with the proposed
             use.

      3.     The applicant indicated that all needed parking is available in the existing
             driveway and garage. The subject home is located on a local residential street
              where on-street parking is currently permitted. All proposed parking should
              be within the garage or driveway. Applicant indicated that the vehicle is used
              for employees to get to the job site. Any employee parking is required to in
              the driveway or garage. Based on the information from the applicant, no
              significant impact to parking is anticipated with the proposed use.

       4.     The proposed use does not appear detrimental to the health, safety, or
              general welfare of the persons residing or working in the vicinity, or injurious
              to the property or improvements in the vicinity.

Building Division Review.

       1.     No Additional Comments

Fire Division Review.

       1.     No Additional Comments
  EXHIBIT B
VICINITY MAP
 EXHIBIT C
AERIAL MAP
  EXHIBIT D
LAND USE MAP
 EXHIBIT E
ZONING MAP
EXHIBIT F
SITE PLAN
 EXHIBIT G
FLOOR PLAN
      EXHIBIT H
APPLICANT STATEMENTS
Overview of Proposed Use

   •   Please provide a description of your proposed business and use including parking, hours of
       operation, expected patrons and or employees, and proposed site improvements if necessary.
       Include details of reasonably anticipated detrimental effects to adjacent properties and the
       neighborhood (such as traffic or noise) and any mitigation measures that can alleviate those
       effects.

          o   The company van for Janisch Electric is parked at the owner’s house during non-business
              hours (i.e. evenings/weekends). There will be no adverse effects from the van parked in
              the driveway. It appears just like a normal van. This van has routine maintenance to
              ensure it runs properly and doesn’t impact the neighborhood.
Analysis of Home Occupation Standards Deviation

Please provide explanation how you meet the following standards or how your proposed business
requires a deviation from one or more of these standards. If it doesn’t apply mark N.A.



Home office is used for administrative duties only and is less than 25% of the home structure. There is
one office room. The measurements are 12X12 (144 square feet).



    •    Ownership: The home occupation shall be owned and operated by a person who resides in the
        dwelling where the home occupation is located. Such person shall be the primary provider of the
        labor, work, or service provided in the home occupation.

            o   The owner of the business, van, and house are the same person James Janisch



    •   Business License: A business license for the home occupation shall be obtained from and
        continually maintained with the city pursuant to title 6, chapter 11 of this code.

            o   Owner has an active business license.



    •   Employees: Members of the family of the owner who reside in the dwelling may be employed in
        the home occupation. Nonfamily or nonresident employees shall be limited to one person.

            o   Only owner.



    •   Inspection: All facilities shall comply with fire, building, plumbing, electrical and all other city,
        county, state and federal codes. Inspections during reasonable hours by city officials may occur
        as necessary to assure compliance with regulations.

            o   Agreed



    •    Inventory: No stock in trade, inventory, or other merchandise to exceed two hundred fifty (250)
        square feet shall be kept on the premises. No outside storage is allowed. (Ord. 909, 7-21-2009)

            o   Inventory or merchandise doesn’t exceed two hundred fifty square feet. No outside
                storage either



    •   Modification Of Structures Or Yards: There shall be no visible evidence from the exterior of a
        dwelling that it is being used for any other purpose than that of a dwelling. No activities shall be
        carried on outside the dwelling in the yard for the benefit of or incidental to the home
    occupation. No front yard area shall be altered to provide parking required for a home
    occupation. (Ord. 1132, 2-17-2015)

        o   No modifications have been done for the van to park in the driveway.



•   Nuisance: Tools, items, equipment, or activities conducted within the dwelling which is offensive
    or noxious by reason of the emission of odor, smoke, gas, vibration, magnetic interference, or
    noise shall be prohibited.

        o   Tools are loaded in the van as needed



•   Secondary Use: The home occupation shall be clearly incidental and secondary to the primary
    use of the dwelling for residential purposes. The home occupation shall not disrupt the normal
    residential character of the neighborhood in which the residence is located. Not more than
    twenty five percent (25%) of the dwelling unit shall be used for the home occupation.

        o   Agreed. There will be no disruption of the residential character. Less than 25% of the
            dwelling is used in the house.



•   Signs: All signage in a residential area must comply with chapter 26, "Signs", of this title.

        o   No signage up at the home address



•   Traffic, Parking, And Access: No home occupation use shall generate pedestrian, parking, or
    vehicular traffic in excess of that customarily associated with the zone in which the use is
    located. All parking shall be provided and maintained on site with adequate provision for drop
    off traffic.

        o   Van parked in driveway doesn’t block traffic, pedestrians, etc.



•   Vehicles: Other than the business owner's personal transportation, there shall be no vehicles or
    equipment on the property associated with the home occupation which would not normally be
    found at a residence. No signage for the home occupation shall be allowed on vehicles.

        o   No signage on other vehicles and only homeowners vehicles are here consistently.



•   Yards: Yards surrounding the dwelling and accessory buildings shall not be used for any activities
    or storage of any materials associated with the home occupation.

•   Nothing is put in yard
•   Customers: No customers allowed. Children accessing a limited daycare or limited preschool
    facility shall not be considered customers.



•   No customers are coming to the house. Office is for administrative duties only.



•   Utility Demand: The home occupation shall not cause a demand for public utilities in excess of
    that necessarily and customarily provided for residential uses.



        o   It wont. Just computer use from time to time.



•   Main Structure: The home occupations shall be conducted, located, and contained within the
    primary structure on the property. (Ord. 909, 7-21-2009)



•   Single-Family And Multiple-Family Dwellings: Home occupations listed as permitted or
    conditional within this title may be permitted in a single-family or a multiple-family dwelling,
    subject to the standards found within this section and section 9-34-060 of this chapter.
    Businesses within multiple-family dwellings shall provide an approval letter from the respective
    homeowners' association, or management company in the case of apartments, if the business
    proposes any employees, customers or business vehicles. (Ord. 1132, 2-17-2015)



•   Licensure: Any home occupation involving childcare shall comply with all applicable state and
    local laws and regulations regarding residential childcare, including, but not limited to, provisions
    of the Utah child care licensing act, as set forth in Utah Code Annotated section 26-39-101 et
    seq., as amended, and the residential certificate childcare standards as set forth in the Utah
    administrative code section R430-50-1 et seq., as amended. In addition, cottage food production
    operations are regulated and inspected by the Utah department of agriculture. Any food related
    home occupation under their jurisdiction must comply with these regulations. (Ord. 909, 7-21-
    2009)
