                                    Development Review Committee
                                        1020 East Pioneer Road
                                          Draper, UT 84020
                                                   March 13, 2025

To:               Draper City Planning Commission
                  Business Date: March 27, 2025

From:             Development Review Committee

Prepared By: Todd Taylor, Planner III
             Planning Division
             Community Development Department
             801-576-6510, todd.taylor@draperutah.gov

Re:      City Initiated Tree Maintenance Ordinance Update - Text Amendment Request
         Application No.: 2025-0054-TA
         Applicant:          Draper City
         Project Location: City Wide
         Current Zoning: City Wide
         Acreage:            City Wide
         Request:            Request for approval of Text Amendments to Titles 7 and 9 of the
                             Draper City Municipal Code (DCMC) in order to modify the
                             standards related to the maintenance of trees on private property
                             and within park strips.



BACKGROUND AND SUMMARY

This application is a request for approval of Text Amendments for the purpose of amending
portions of DCMC Titles 7 and 9 modify the standards related to the maintenance of trees
on private property and within park strips.

City staff was recently made aware that the current text of the DCMC needs additional
standards in two areas to ensure that trees are maintained in a safe manner. First, there is
no clear standard in the DCMC for Code Enforcement to cite to ensure the removal of trees
that pose a hazard to property or persons. Second, there is no method outlined for the City
to be able to remove street trees that restrict visibility within the public right of way. The
ordinance changes proposed by this application will rectify these two issues.



City Initiated Tree Maintenance Ordinance Update                     App. No. 2025-0054-TA
Text Amendment Request                                   1
ANALYSIS

This portion of the report will review the modifications being proposed to the DCMC by
section. The legislative copy of the changes can be found in Exhibit B of this report. Additions
to the text are indicated in blue, deletions in red, and unchanged text in black.

Text Amendments.

DCMC Section 7-13-030: Real Property To Be Kept Clean and Secured: This section is related
to the cleaning of real property and the control of weeds. The text has been modified to
reference Section 9-27-080(D) which describes the pruning of trees located within fifteen feet
(15’) of the curb. New text has been added to this section to require a property owner to
remove dead, decayed, diseased or hazardous trees from the property or abutting park strip.

DCMC Section 9-27-080: Fences and Visual Obstructions: This section is related to trees which
may be a visual obstruction. The text has been modified to increase the height of pruning
tree branches from seven feet (7’) to (9’) for trees located within fifteen feet (15’) of the curb.
New text has been added to this section to allow the City Engineer to determine whether
these trees create unsafe conditions. If deemed unsafe, the tree may be removed by the
property owner or the City without requiring a replacement tree.



REVIEWS

Planning Division Review. The Draper City Planning Division has completed their review of
the Text Amendment submission. Comments from this division, if any, can be found in
Exhibit A.

Engineering and Public Works Divisions Review. The Draper City Engineering and Public
Works Divisions have completed their reviews of the Text Amendment submission.
Comments from these divisions, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Fire Division Review. The Draper City Fire Marshal has completed his review of the Text
Amendment submission. Comments from this division, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Legal Division Review. The Draper City Attorney has completed his review of the Text
Amendment submission. Comments from this division, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Noticing. Notice has been properly issued in the manner outlined in the City and State Codes.




City Initiated Tree Maintenance Ordinance Update                        App. No. 2025-0054-TA
Text Amendment Request                             2
STAFF RECOMMENDATION

Staff recommends that the Planning Commission review the request, receive public
comment, and make a recommendation to the City Council based on the findings listed
below and the criteria for approval, or denial, as listed within the staff report.



MODEL MOTIONS

Sample Motion for Positive Recommendation – I move that we forward a positive
recommendation to the City Council for the City Initiated Tree Maintenance Ordinance
Update Text Amendment, as requested by Draper City, Application No. 2025-0054-TA, based
on the following findings and the criteria for approval as listed in the Staff Report dated
March 13, 2025.

Findings for Approval:

    1. The proposed amendment is consistent with goals, objectives and policies of the
       City's General Plan;
    2. The proposed amendment is appropriate given the context of the request and there
       is sufficient justification for a modification to the development codes;
    3. The proposed amendment will not create a conflict with any other section or part of
       the development codes or the General Plan;
    4. The potential effects of the proposed amendment have been evaluated and are
       determined not to be detrimental to public health, safety, or welfare and represents
       an overall community benefit; and
    5. The proposed text amendment implements best current, professional practices of
       urban planning, design, and engineering practices.

Sample Motion for Modified Positive Recommendation – I move that we forward a positive
recommendation to the City Council for the City Initiated Tree Maintenance Ordinance
Update Text Amendment, as requested by Draper City, Application No. 2025-0054-TA, based
on the findings and criteria for approval listed in the Staff Report dated March 13, 2025, and
as modified by the following additional recommended modifications or findings:

    1. (List any additional findings or modifications…)

Sample Motion for Negative Recommendation – I move that we forward a negative
recommendation to the City Council for the City Initiated Tree Maintenance Ordinance
Update Text Amendment, as requested by Draper City, Application No. 2025-0054-TA, based
on the following findings and the criteria for denial as listed in the Staff Report dated March
13, 2025.




City Initiated Tree Maintenance Ordinance Update                     App. No. 2025-0054-TA
Text Amendment Request                             3
Findings for Denial:

    1. The proposed amendment is not consistent with goals, objectives and policies of the
       City's General Plan;
    2. The proposed amendment is not appropriate given the context of the request and
       there is not sufficient justification for a modification to the development codes;
    3. The proposed amendment could create a conflict with another section or part of the
       development codes or the General Plan; and
    4. The potential effects of the proposed amendment have been determined to be
       detrimental to public health, safety, or welfare or do not represent an overall
       community benefit.
    5. The proposed text amendment is not consistent with best current, professional
       practices of urban planning, design, and engineering practices.




City Initiated Tree Maintenance Ordinance Update                  App. No. 2025-0054-TA
Text Amendment Request                             4
                                     EXHIBIT A
                                DEPARTMENT REVIEWS

REVIEWS ARE NOT MEANT TO BE AN ALL INCLUSIVE LIST OF POSSIBLE COMMENTS OR
CONDITIONS.



Planning Division Review.

   1. No additional comments received.

Engineering and Public Works Divisions Review.

   1. No additional comments received.

Fire Division Review.

   1. No additional comments received.

Legal Division Review.

   1. No additional comments received.
                                           EXHIBIT B
                                       LEGISLATIVE DRAFT

7-13-030: REAL PROPERTY TO BE KEPT CLEAN AND SECURED:

It is unlawful for any person, corporation, partnership or other legal entity owning or occupying
real property in the city:

   …

   C. To fail to maintain all park strip landscaping abutting such property including but not
      limited to keeping trees trimmed as provided in section 9-27-080(D);

   …

   H. To place or deposit snow, ice, or any other material upon any city street that in such a
      manner as to interferes with the proper use of the street, to obstructs travel, or to
      endangers property or persons; or

   I. To fail to maintain a minimum clear space of three feet foot (3') clear space around the
       circumference of fire hydrants, including the removal of trees, shrubs, trash or snow; or

   J.   To fail to remove any dead, decayed, diseased or hazardous trees from the property, or
        park strip abutting such property, that pose a hazard to property or persons.

   …

9-27-080: FENCES AND VISUAL OBSTRUCTIONS:

All fences, walls, and similar structures or landscaping that obstruct visibility must Any fence, wall
and other similar structure or landscaping which is a visual obstruction shall meet all of the
following requirements:

   …

   D. Trees: All mature trees located within fifteen feet (15') from a street curb, or the edge of
      the street pavement where there is no curb, shall be pruned to remove all branches to a
      height of at least seven nine feet (79') above the elevation of the curb or street pavement.
      For streets that have no curb, this provision shall apply to trees within fifteen feet (15')
      from the edge of street pavement. New trees planted within fifteen feet (15') of the curb
      or edge of street pavement shall be of a type that which allows for the required pruning
      when maturity is reached. In no case shall any tree restrict visibility within the public right
      of way such that conditions deemed unsafe by the city engineer are created for the
      traveling public.
1. Visibility within the public right of way must not be restricted in a manner that creates
   unsafe conditions as determined by the city engineer.

2. If a tree is deemed unsafe by the city engineer, it may be removed by either the
   property owner or the city without the requirement for a replacement tree to be
   planted.

…
