                                     Development Review Committee
                                         1020 East Pioneer Road
                                           Draper, UT 84020
                                             May 29, 2025

To:               Draper City Planning Commission
                  Business Date: June 12, 2025

From:             Development Review Committee

Prepared By: Nick Whittaker, MCMP, Planner II
             Planning Division
             Community Development Department
             801-576-6522, Nick.Whittaker@draperutah.gov

Re:      Bird Drywall, Inc. Home Occupation –Conditional Use Permit Request
         Application No.: 2024-0354-USE
         Applicant:          Jessica Larson, representing Kevin Bird and Bird Drywall, Inc.
         Project Location: 1197 E. Summerharvest Dr.
         Current Zoning: RA2 (Residential Agricultural, 20,000 ft2 min. lot size) Zone
         Acreage:            0.46 Acres (Approximately 20,038 ft2)
         Request:            Request for approval of an Home Occupation Conditional Use
                             Permit in the RA2 zone regarding the operation of a Home Office
                             which provides drywall services.



BACKGROUND AND SUMMARY

This application is a request for approval of a Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit for
approximately 0.46 acres located on the north side of Summerharvest Dr. at approximately
1197 E. Summerharvest Dr. (Exhibit B & C). The property is currently zoned RA2. The
applicant is requesting that a Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit be approved to
allow for a Home Office which provides drywall services.

The subject property is Lot number 25 of the Fox Crossing of Draper, Phase 2 Subdivision.
The property was built in 2004. The proposed home occupation will operate from an office
located in the den on the first floor of the residential dwelling.



ANALYSIS



Bird Drywall, Inc. Home Occupation                                  App. # 2024-0345-USE
Conditional Use Request                           1
General Plan and Zoning.

 Table 1                     General Plan and Zoning Designations                 Exhibit
 Existing Land Use           Residential Low/Medium Density                       Exhibit D
 Current Zoning              RA2                                                  Exhibit E
 Adjacent Zoning
    East                     RA2
    West                     RA2
    North                    RA2
    South                    RA2

The Residential Low/Medium Density land use designation is characterized as follows:




Bird Drywall, Inc. Home Occupation                                  App. # 2024-0345-USE
Conditional Use Request                           2
According to Draper City Municipal Code (DCMC) Section 9-8-020 the purpose of the RA2
zone is to “foster low density development with little impact on its surroundings and
municipal services; to generally preserve the character of the City’s semi-rural areas; and to
promote and preserve conditions favorable to large-lot family life, including the keeping of
limited numbers of animals and fowl. The predominant use in these zones is intended to
be detached single-family dwellings, protected from encroachment by commercial and
industrial uses.”

Home Occupation. The DCMC Section 9-34-040 outlines development standards applicable
to all home occupations. Those criteria, along with information specific to the subject
request, are as follows:

         A. Ownership: The home occupation shall be owned and operated by a person who
             resides in the dwelling where the home occupation is located. Such person shall
             be the primary provider of the labor, work, or service provided in the home
             occupation.

                  •    The applicant owns the business and owns and resides at the dwelling.

         B. Business License: A business license for the home occupation shall be obtained
             from and continually maintained with the city pursuant to title 6, chapter 11 of
             this code.

                  •    The applicant has submitted a business license application to the city.

         C. Employees: Members of the family of the owner who reside in the dwelling may
             be employed in the home occupation. Nonfamily or nonresident employees
             shall be limited to one person.

                  •    The applicant is seeking a deviation from this standard. The business
                       owner is the only employee who resides in the dwelling. In addition, there
                       are nine (9) additional non-resident employees. The employees come to
                       the subject property to pick up and return supplies, materials, and
                       equipment (Exhibit H).

         D. Inspection: All facilities shall comply with fire, building, plumbing, electrical and
             all other city, county, state and federal codes. Inspections during reasonable
             hours by city officials may occur as necessary to assure compliance with
             regulations.

                  •    The applicant claims that the facilities comply with state and federal
                       codes (Exhibit H).




Bird Drywall, Inc. Home Occupation                                       App. # 2024-0345-USE
Conditional Use Request                            3
         E. Inventory: No stock in trade, inventory, or other merchandise to exceed two
              hundred fifty (250) square feet shall be kept on the premises. No outside storage
              is allowed.

                  •    The applicant is seeking a deviation to this standard to allow for up to
                       three-hundred fifty square feet (350 ft2) of storage inside the detached
                       garage (Exhibits F & H).

         F. Modification Of Structures Or Yards: There shall be no visible evidence from the
              exterior of a dwelling that it is being used for any other purpose than that of a
              dwelling. No activities shall be carried on outside the dwelling in the yard for the
              benefit of or incidental to the home occupation. No front yard area shall be
              altered to provide parking required for a home occupation.

                  •    The applicant indicates that limited outside activity for the benefit of the
                       home occupation is conducted at the subject property. The applicant has
                       explained that all outside related activities are conducted from within and
                       in front of the detached garage located in the rear yard. This is where
                       employees collect and load their supplies and equipment. The applicant
                       further indicates that the rear yard area used for the home occupation is
                       screened from the front yard area by a fence. (Exhibits F & H).

         G. Nuisance: Tools, items, equipment, or activities conducted within the dwelling
              which is offensive or noxious by reason of the emission of odor, smoke, gas,
              vibration, magnetic interference, or noise shall be prohibited.

                  •    According to the applicant the home occupation does not use tools or
                       items that would create any of these listed nuisances (Exhibit H).

         H. Secondary Use: The home occupation shall be clearly incidental and secondary
              to the primary use of the dwelling for residential purposes. The home
              occupation shall not disrupt the normal residential character of the
              neighborhood in which the residence is located. Not more than twenty five
              percent (25%) of the dwelling unit shall be used for the home occupation.

                  •    The home occupation utilizes approximately one-hundred forty-four
                       square feet (144 ft2) of the dwelling for a home office which is
                       approximately three percent (3%) of the gross square footage of the
                       dwelling unit (Exhibits G & H).

         I.   Signs: All signage in a residential area must comply with chapter 26, "Signs", of
              this title.




Bird Drywall, Inc. Home Occupation                                       App. # 2024-0345-USE
Conditional Use Request                            4
                  •    The applicant claims that all signage is in compliance with chapter 9-26.
                       However, the applicant did not indicate to staff if they have a sign located
                       on the subject property or not. (Exhibit H). Compliance with chapter 9-26
                       of the DCMC is required.

         J.   Traffic, Parking, And Access: No home occupation use shall generate pedestrian,
              parking, or vehicular traffic in excess of that customarily associated with the
              zone in which the use is located. All parking shall be provided and maintained on
              site with adequate provision for drop off traffic.

                  •    The applicant indicates that customers do not come to the home.
                       However, the applicant did indicate that occasionally employees do bring
                       their vehicles to the home to collect or drop off materials, or equipment.
                       The applicant indicates that on the occasions when an employee comes
                       to the home, only one (1) employee comes at a time between 8:00 am
                       and 5:00 pm, Monday through Friday. The applicant further indicates that
                       the employee parks their work vehicle in front of the detached garage
                       located in the rear yard to load and unload materials. (Exhibits G & H).

         K. Vehicles: Other than the business owner's personal transportation, there shall
              be no vehicles or equipment on the property associated with the home
              occupation which would not normally be found at a residence. No signage for
              the home occupation shall be allowed on vehicles.

                  •    The applicant indicates that employees occasionally bring their work
                       vehicle to the subject property to load or drop off materials or equipment
                       only. No employee vehicles are stored at the property only the owners
                       personal work vehicle is stored at the property overnight. The employee
                       work vehicles are Ford F-150 flatbed trucks. Large commercial vehicles or
                       trailers do not come to the property. (Exhibit H).

         L. Yards: Yards surrounding the dwelling and accessory buildings shall not be used
              for any activities or storage of any materials associated with the home
              occupation.

                  •    The applicant has explained that all outdoor activities within the yard
                       areas are conducted from within and in front of the detached garage
                       located in the rear yard. The detached garage is partially used to store
                       materials associated with the home occupation and is where employees
                       collect and load equipment and supplies. The applicant indicates that the
                       supplies are drywall screws, tape, containers of drywall mud, cornerbead
                       and some small pieces of scrap drywall which are used for patching up
                       walls at job sites. Full sheets of drywall are not stored, delivered to or



Bird Drywall, Inc. Home Occupation                                        App. # 2024-0345-USE
Conditional Use Request                            5
                       distributed from the detached garage (Exhibits F & H).

         M. Customers: No customers allowed. Children accessing a limited daycare or
            limited preschool facility shall not be considered customers.

                  •    No customers come to the home. (Exhibit H).

         N. Utility Demand: The home occupation shall not cause a demand for public
             utilities in excess of that necessarily and customarily provided for residential
             uses.

                  •    The applicant indicates that the home occupation does not use public
                       utilities in excess of typical residential use. (Exhibit H).

         O. Main Structure: The home occupations shall be conducted, located, and
            contained within the primary structure on the property.

                  •    The applicant is requesting a deviation from this standard. A portion of
                       the home occupation is conducted from within the residential dwelling;
                       however, the applicant also uses approximately three-hundred fifty (350)
                       ft² inside of a detached garage in conjunction with the home occupation
                       for the purpose of storing equipment and materials (Exhibits F, G & H).
                       The overall size of the detached garage is approximately eight-hundred
                       thirty-two square (832 ft²) feet in size.

         P. Single-Family And Multiple-Family Dwellings: Home occupations listed as
             permitted or conditional within this title may be permitted in a single-family or a
             multiple-family dwelling, subject to the standards found within this section and
             section 9-34-060 of this chapter. Businesses within multiple-family dwellings
             shall provide an approval letter from the respective homeowners' association, or
             management company in the case of apartments, if the business proposes any
             employees, customers or business vehicles.

                  •    The business is conducted from a single-family dwelling and a detached
                       garage located on the same property (Exhibit H).

         Q. Licensure: Any home occupation involving childcare shall comply with all
             applicable state and local laws and regulations regarding residential childcare,
             including, but not limited to, provisions of the Utah child care licensing act, as set
             forth in Utah Code Annotated section 26-39-101 et seq., as amended, and the
             residential certificate childcare standards as set forth in the Utah administrative
             code section R430-50-1 et seq., as amended. In addition, cottage food
             production operations are regulated and inspected by the Utah department of



Bird Drywall, Inc. Home Occupation                                      App. # 2024-0345-USE
Conditional Use Request                           6
             agriculture. Any food related home occupation under their jurisdiction must
             comply with these regulations.

                  •    The home occupation does not involve child care or food production.



Criteria For Approval.
The criteria for review and potential approval of a conditional use permit request is found
in Section 9-5-080(E) of the DCMC. This section depicts the standard of review for such
requests as:

         E. Approval Standards: The standards of this subsection shall apply to the issuance
             of a conditional use permit:
          1. A conditional use permit may be issued for a use to be located within a zone
             where the particular conditional use is allowed by the use regulations of the
             zone.
          2. Reasonable conditions may be imposed as necessary to substantially mitigate
             reasonably anticipated detrimental effects of the proposed use. These
             conditions may include conditions concerning use, construction, character,
             location, landscaping, screening, parking, hours of operation, and other matters
             relating to the purposes and objectives of this section. Such conditions shall be
             expressly set forth in the motion authorizing the conditional use permit.
          3. If the reasonably anticipated detrimental effects of a proposed conditional use
             cannot be substantially mitigated by the imposition of reasonable conditions to
             achieve compliance with applicable standards, the conditional use may be
             denied.
          4. The following factors shall be reviewed and considered in determining whether a
             conditional use permit application should be approved, approved with
             conditions, or denied because reasonable conditions cannot be imposed to
             achieve compliance with applicable standards:
               a. The harmony and compliance of the proposed use with the objectives and
                  requirements of the city's general plan and this title;
               b. The suitability of the specific property for the proposed use;
               c. Whether the proposed use or facility may be injurious to potential or existing
                  development in the vicinity;
               d. The economic impact of the proposed facility or use on the surrounding
                  area;
               e. The aesthetic impact of the proposed facility or use on the surrounding area;
               f. The safeguards proposed or provided to ensure adequate utilities,
                  transportation access, drainage, parking, loading space, lighting, screening,
                  landscaping, open space, fire protection, and pedestrian and vehicular
                  circulation;




Bird Drywall, Inc. Home Occupation                                    App. # 2024-0345-USE
Conditional Use Request                          7
              g. The safeguards provided or proposed to prevent noxious or offensive
                 emissions such as noise, glare, dust, pollutants and odor from the proposed
                 facility or use; and
              h. The impact of the proposed facility or use on the health, safety, and welfare
                 of the city, the area, and persons owning or leasing property in the area.
          5. The planning commission may request additional information as may be
             reasonably needed to determine whether the requirements of this subsection E
             can be met.

Staff has reviewed the application and the corresponding documentation and responses
provided by the applicant. Staff notes that the proposed Home Occupation is a Home
Office which also utilizes three-hundred fifty square feet (350 ft2) within a detached garage
for the purpose of storing materials and equipment. The applicant is requesting deviations
from the standards listed in DCMC Section 9-34-040 to utilize additional storage space for
materials inside a detached garage and for additional non-resident employees that also
come to the home to pick up and drop off supplies and equipment. Staff notes that
alterations to the development standards listed in DCMC 9-34-040 is permissible per DCMC
9-34-060 which states that the standards, “May nonetheless be established through the
issuance of a conditional use permit specifically for the desired alteration to those
development standards.”

The requirements and standards for approval of a Conditional Use Permit are found in 9-5-
080(E) of the DCMC. Staff understands that the reasonably anticipated detrimental effects
related to operating this Home Occupation would be increased traffic, vehicles parked on
the street, and the potential for the storage of equipment and materials in yard areas. Staff
suggests that such detrimental effects are sufficiently mitigated by limiting the arrival and
departure of employees to one (1) at a time, and by limiting operational tasks that occur
outside of the dwelling to the yard area in front of the detached garage which is screened
from view by a fence. Also, potential negative impacts are mitigated by having all of the
supplies and equipment stored within an enclosed building. The established hours of 8:00
a.m. to 5:00 p.m., Monday through Friday in which employees may come to the property
also mitigate impacts to the neighborhood (Exhibit H).

Staff generally concurs with the applicant’s statements that the proposed home occupation
with the existing and proposed mitigations and conditions will not be detrimental to the
neighborhood.



REVIEWS

Planning Division Review. The Draper City Planning Division has completed their review of
the Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit submission. Comments from this division, if
any, can be found in Exhibit A.



Bird Drywall, Inc. Home Occupation                                   App. # 2024-0345-USE
Conditional Use Request                        8
Engineering and Public Works Divisions Review. The Draper City Engineering and Public
Works Divisions have completed their reviews of the Home Occupation Conditional Use
Permit submission. Comments from these divisions, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Building Division Review. The Draper City Building Division has completed their review of
the Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit submission. Comments from this division, if
any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Fire Division Review. The Draper City Fire Marshal has completed his review of the Home
Occupation Conditional Use Permit submission. Comments from this division, if any, can
be found in Exhibit A.

Noticing. Notice has been properly issued in the manner outlined in the City and State
Codes.



STAFF RECOMMENDATION

Staff recommends that the Planning Commission review the request based on the findings
and the criteria for approval, or denial as listed within the staff report. The Planning
Commission should also review the request, hear from the applicant, and receive public
comment prior to making a decision.

If the Planning Commission decides to approve the request, staff recommends they include
the following conditions of approval:

    1. That all requirements of the Draper City Engineering, Public Works, Building,
       Planning, and Fire Divisions are satisfied.
    2. That a Draper City business license shall be obtained and maintained by the
       business owner for as long as the business remains in operation.
    3. Employees shall only be permitted one (1) at a time at the subject property between
       the business hours of 8:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m., Monday through Friday.
    4. That employee vehicles shall only be parked on the property in front of the
       detached garage towards the rear of the home and behind the fence while loading
       and unloading materials and equipment and shall not be parked or stored at the
       property outside of business hours, or on the street.
    5. That no customers shall come to the home.
    6. That all materials, inventory, and equipment shall be kept in the detached garage in
       a space that shall not exceed 350 ft2.



MODEL MOTIONS AND FINDINGS



Bird Drywall, Inc. Home Occupation                                App. # 2024-0345-USE
Conditional Use Request                      9
Sample Motion for Approval – I move that we approve the Home Occupation Conditional
Use Permit, as requested by Jessica Larson, representing Kevin Bird and Bird Drywall, Inc.
Application 2024-0354-USE, based on the following findings for approval and subject to the
conditions listed in the Staff Report dated May 29, 2025.

Findings for approval:

         1. The proposal complies with the standards for approval found in DCMC Section 9-
            5-080(E) and potential negative impacts are mitigated through the imposition of
            reasonable conditions.

I move that we approve the Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit, as requested by
Jessica Larson, representing Kevin Bird and Bird Drywall, Inc. Application 2024-0354-USE,
based on the findings for approval and subject to the conditions listed in the Staff Report
dated May 29, 2025 and as modified by the following additional findings or conditions:

         1. (List any additional findings…)
         2. (List any additional conditions…)

Sample Motion for Denial – I move that we deny the Home Occupation Conditional Use
Permit, as requested by Jessica Larson, representing Kevin Bird and Bird Drywall, Inc.
Application 2024-0354-USE, based on the following findings for denial listed in the Staff
Report dated May 29, 2025.

Findings for denial:

         1. The proposal does not comply with all standards for approval found in DCMC
            Section 9-5-080(E) and potential negative impacts are not able to be sufficiently
            mitigated through the imposition of reasonable conditions.




Bird Drywall, Inc. Home Occupation                                   App. # 2024-0345-USE
Conditional Use Request                         10
                   DEVELOPMENT REVIEW COMMITTEE ACKNOWLEDGEMENT


We, the undersigned, as duly appointed members of the Draper City Development Review
Committee, do acknowledge that the application which provides the subject for this staff
report has been reviewed by the Committee and has been found to be appropriate for
review by the Draper City Planning Commission and/or City Council.

                                                                                                     DigitaJjystgnod Qy Todd A.
                        Digitally signed by Brian Maxlield                                           Draper
                        DN:C-US,                                                                     DN: C=US,
                                                                                                     E-tOdd dr^er^draper.ut ue,
 Brien Maxfield O-Oraper, OU-Publie WorHs ●
                          bnen.maxiipid@draperutah.gov,
                                                                                Todd A. Draper O-DraperCity Planning,
                        Engirtoorlng, CN>8rien Uaxticid                                             CNeTpdd A. Draper
                                                                                                     □aw: 2026.06 02
                        Date: 2025.OS.02 12:46:56-06'00'
                                                                                                     12.5A39-0KC11:


Draper City Public Works Department                                       Draper City Planning Division


                          Oigttail^ signed by Don B*jck1ey
                          DN: C«LfS, E-don.buckley^d/apeMftua, 0-Draper

Don Buckley               Ct(y Fire DdOdrtmsnl. OU-Ftre Maraha^, CK-Don
                          Buek»y
                          Hate          ]2-


Draper City Fire Department
                         Digitally signed by Matthew Symes
                         DN:C-US,
                         E.matl.symes@draRerutah.gov,
 Matthew Symes           O=0taper City Corp., CN.WatlhGW
                         Symos
                         Date: 2025.06.02 14:23;48-06'00'



Draper City Building Division
                                     EXHIBIT A
                                DEPARTMENT REVIEWS

REVIEWS ARE NOT MEANT TO BE AN ALL INCLUSIVE LIST OF POSSIBLE COMMENTS OR
CONDITIONS.



Planning Division Review.

      1.     No additional comments

Engineering and Public Works Divisions Review.

      1.     The present and future requirements for transportation, traffic, water, sewer,
             and other utilities for the subject site do not appear to be detrimentally
             impacted as described. Given the location and proposed use, the use is not
             anticipated to generate a significant impact to water, sewer, or other
             potential utilities.

      2.     The number of trips generated by the home owner as the applicant and no
             employees with only an occasional customer(s) visiting the residence will not
             have a detrimental impact to traffic in the area. The applicant indicated that
             the customers will be infrequent and consist of facilitating transfer of fire
             arms per federal firearms license requirements. The potential for issues with
             traffic would be if the applicant decided to have multiple vehicles parked
             along eagle chase drive impacting the ability of traffic to pass. The capacity of
             the fronting public street is design for typical neighborhood traffic and based
             limited customers, does not represent a significant impact to the street
             capacity. Based on the description of the traffic generated by the business,
             the number of trips generated by the associated occupation is limited. Based
             on the statements of the applicant about limited customers, no significant
             impact to traffic is anticipated with the proposed use.

      3.     The number of trips generated by the home owner as the applicant and no
             employees with only an occasional customer(s) visiting the residence will not
             have a detrimental impact to traffic in the area. The applicant indicated that
             the customers will be infrequent and consist of facilitating transfer of fire
             arms per federal firearms license requirements. The potential for issues with
             traffic would be if the applicant decided to have multiple vehicles parked
             along eagle chase drive impacting the ability of traffic to pass. The capacity of
             the fronting public street is design for typical neighborhood traffic and based
             limited customers, does not represent a significant impact to the street
              capacity. Based on the description of the traffic generated by the business,
              the number of trips generated by the associated occupation is limited. Based
              on the statements of the applicant about limited customers, no significant
              impact to traffic is anticipated with the proposed use.

       4.     The proposed use does not appear detrimental to the health, safety, or
              general welfare of the persons residing or working in the vicinity, or injurious
              to the property or improvements in the vicinity.

Building Division Review.

       1.     No additional comments

Fire Division Review.

       1.     No additional comments
  EXHIBIT B
VICINITY MAP
 EXHIBIT C
AERIAL MAP
  EXHIBIT D
LAND USE MAP
 EXHIBIT E
ZONING MAP
EXHIBIT F
SITE PLAN
 EXHIBIT G
FLOOR PLAN
      EXHIBIT H
APPLICANT STATEMENTS
Please explain how you will meet the standards listed below. If you believe that you are in compliance
with the standard, please explain why. If it does not apply explain why (N/A is not a valid response).

9-34-040: DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS; PERMITTED USE:

The development standards set forth in this section shall apply to any home occupation allowed as a
permitted use:

A. Ownership: The home occupation shall be owned and operated by a person who resides in the
dwelling where the home occupation is located. Such person shall be the primary provider of the labor,
work, or service provided in the home occupation.

    •   Kevin and Sandy Bird are owners of the property and Bird Drywall Inc. is owned by Kevin Bird,
        who resides in the dwelling.

B. Business License: A business license for the home occupation shall be obtained from and continually
maintained with the city pursuant to title 6, chapter 11 of this code.

    •   The business license has been maintained and is current.

C. Employees: Members of the family of the owner who reside in the dwelling may be employed in the
home occupation. Nonfamily or nonresident employees shall be limited to one person.

    •   Kevin Bird resides in the dwelling and is employed with Bird Drywall Inc. No additional residents
        living in the dwelling besides spouse (not employed with Bird Drywall Inc.). Bird Drywall Inc. has
        9 employees (one being inactive/not currently working), who live outside of the home.

D. Inspection: All facilities shall comply with fire, building, plumbing, electrical and all other city, county,
state and federal codes. Inspections during reasonable hours by city officials may occur as necessary to
assure compliance with regulations.

    •   All facilities comply with state and federal codes.

E. Inventory: No stock in trade, inventory, or other merchandise to exceed two hundred fifty (250)
square feet shall be kept on the premises. No outside storage is allowed. (Ord. 909, 7-21-2009)

    •   We are requesting a modification to this deviation as we are currently using approximately 350
        sq ft (out of 832 sq ft total) of the detached garage for business use. No outside storage is used
        for any tools/material related to the business.

F. Modification Of Structures or Yards: There shall be no visible evidence from the exterior of a dwelling
that it is being used for any other purpose than that of a dwelling. No activities shall be carried on
outside the dwelling in the yard for the benefit of or incidental to the home occupation. No front yard
area shall be altered to provide parking required for a home occupation. (Ord. 1132, 2-17-2015)

    •   There is no visible evidence from the exterior of the dwelling that is being used for anything
        other than residential purposes. When an employee comes to the home to obtain material or
        drop off scrap, they are let in via a locked gate and pull to the end of the driveway leading to the
        detached garage (which is not located on or near the front yard of the home). If an employee is
        to access material from the detached garage, this is done during normal business/working hours
        and does not cause any disruption within the area.
G. Nuisance: Tools, items, equipment, or activities conducted within the dwelling which is offensive or
noxious by reason of the emission of odor, smoke, gas, vibration, magnetic interference, or noise shall be
prohibited.

    •   No tools or items of this nature are used at this property.

H. Secondary Use: The home occupation shall be clearly incidental and secondary to the primary use of
the dwelling for residential purposes. The home occupation shall not disrupt the normal residential
character of the neighborhood in which the residence is located. Not more than twenty five percent
(25%) of the dwelling unit shall be used for the home occupation.

    •   The detached garage is very clearly second to the main dwelling home occupation. The home
        office (within the primary structure) absolutely does not disrupt the normal character of the
        neighborhood and well under 25% of the property is used for home occupation. The home office
        is used for administrative purposes, bookkeeping, payroll, sending proposals and invoices.

I. Signs: All signage in a residential area must comply with chapter 26, "Signs", of this title.

    •   All signage is in compliance with Chapter 26.

J. Traffic, Parking, And Access: No home occupation use shall generate pedestrian, parking, or vehicular
traffic in excess of that customarily associated with the zone in which the use is located. All parking shall
be provided and maintained on site with adequate provision for drop off traffic.

    •   The home occupation does not generate traffic by employees or customers, other than 1
        employee at a time coming to drop off or pick up scrap material. This is also done via a detached
        garage which is in the back of the residence, and away from the main road. When an employee
        is needing to access the detached garage, this is planned ahead of time with the owner of the
        business/home and done no earlier than 8 am, but no later than 5 pm, Monday through Friday.

K. Vehicles: Other than the business owner's personal transportation, there shall be no vehicles or
equipment on the property associated with the home occupation which would not normally be found at
a residence. No signage for the home occupation shall be allowed on vehicles.

    •   No vehicles other than the business owners are ever stored at the property. The only time other
        work-related vehicles are at the property are when an employee is coming to pick up or drop off
        scrap material. As stated above, if an employee is to access material from the detached garage,
        this is done during normal business/working hours and does not cause any disruption within the
        area. The work vehicles are never left at the residence as the employees store them at their own
        place of residence.

L. Yards: Yards surrounding the dwelling and accessory buildings shall not be used for any activities or
storage of any materials associated with the home occupation.

    •   The surrounding yard is not normally used for any type of business storage or use, other than
        when an employee is accessing the detached garage to obtain or drop off material.

M. Customers: No customers allowed. Children accessing a limited daycare or limited preschool facility
shall not be considered customers.
    •   We do not allow customers to come to the residence.

N. Utility Demand: The home occupation shall not cause a demand for public utilities in excess of that
necessarily and customarily provided for residential uses.

    •   Home occupation does not use public utilities outside of residential use.

O. Main Structure: The home occupations shall be conducted, located, and contained within the
primary structure on the property. (Ord. 909, 7-21-2009)

    •   The home occupation is conducted, located and contained within the primary structure of the
        home. The primary home office is in the residence and is used daily for home occupation.

P. Single-Family And Multiple-Family Dwellings: Home occupations listed as permitted or conditional
within this title may be permitted in a single-family or a multiple-family dwelling, subject to the
standards found within this section and section 9-34-060 of this chapter. Businesses within multiple-
family dwellings shall provide an approval letter from the respective homeowners' association, or
management company in the case of apartments, if the business proposes any employees, customers or
business vehicles. (Ord. 1132, 2-17-2015)

    •   Home occupation is within a single-family dwelling only.

Q. Licensure: Any home occupation involving childcare shall comply with all applicable state and local
laws and regulations regarding residential childcare, including, but not limited to, provisions of the Utah
child care licensing act, as set forth in Utah Code Annotated section 26-39-101 et seq., as amended, and
the residential certificate childcare standards as set forth in the Utah administrative code section R430-
50-1 et seq., as amended. In addition, cottage food production operations are regulated and inspected
by the Utah department of agriculture. Any food related home occupation under their jurisdiction must
comply with these regulations. (Ord. 909, 7-21-2009)

    •   Home occupation does not apply to childcare or food services.
Answers to engineering questions:



Identify the type of materials to be stored onsite. Sheetrock will require commercial (heavy duty)
vehicles for delivery or pick-up of material. These types of vehicles are not appropriate for ongoing
regular business use within residential areas.



    •   Material is only ever delivered via an employee’s work truck (Ford F-150), with no more than 400
        lbs (approx. 8 sheets of sheetrock). This is also very infrequent as sheetrock stored at the
        property is scrap. Our sheetrock deliveries come from a delivery service directly to the jobs, not
        ever to this residence. There are never any heavy duty commercial trucks making deliveries to
        this residence. Additional items stored at the property include drywall screws, tape, a few boxes
        of mud and cornerbead. Again, these materials are scrap and not actually to be used to supply
        full jobs.
