                                             Study Session:
                                   Water Use and Preservation Element
                     DRAPER CITY
C O MMUNI T Y DEVEL O PMENT




                                              Todd Taylor, Planner III


                                                   City Council
                                                 October 21, 2025
                                   Background
                                   Senate Bill 110 (2022)

                                      • Requires Water Use and Preservation Element in General Plan
                     DRAPER CITY
C O MMUNI T Y DEVEL O PMENT




                                      • Must be adopted by December 31, 2025

                                   Draft Element

                                      • Goals (5) and Implementation Measures (15)

                                   Tentative Hearing Schedule

                                      • Planning Commission on November 13, 2025

                                      • City Council on December 2, 2025
                                   Goal 1
                                   Strengthen the City’s water conservation efforts through dedicated
                                   leadership, support, and collaboration.
                     DRAPER CITY
C O MMUNI T Y DEVEL O PMENT




                                   • Implementation 1.1: Water Conservation Team: Explore the
                                     formation of a Water Conservation Team to support the
                                     Conservation Coordinator in addressing existing and future water
                                     use and preservation goals.
                                   • Implementation 1.2: Water Conservation Intern: Consider
                                     developing a Water Conservation Intern or similar position for the
                                     development and support of additional programming, outreach,
                                     and education.
                                   Goal 2
                                   Develop additional citywide policies and ordinances that enhance
                                   water conservation and efficiency through irrigation restrictions for
                                   existing developments.
                     DRAPER CITY
C O MMUNI T Y DEVEL O PMENT




                                   • Implementation 2.1: Develop and implement a Time-of-Day
                                     Watering Ordinance to restrict outdoor watering between the
                                     hours of 10am and 6pm.
                                   • Implementation 2.2: Develop a Water Shortage Plan to help
                                     protect public health, safety, and welfare during periods of
                                     drought, temporary water shortage, and supply interruption.
                                   Goal 3
                                   Increase public awareness of water conservation through
                                   educational programming.
                     DRAPER CITY
C O MMUNI T Y DEVEL O PMENT




                                   • Implementation 3.1: DIY Water Conserving Workshop Series -
                                     Educate and empower residents with water conserving skills
                                     through DIY workshops such as Fix-A-Leak and Fix Your
                                     Sprinklers.
                                   • Implementation 3.2: Promotional Items - Provide residents with
                                     the resources to conserve water at home by providing free water
                                     conserving tools such as smart leak monitors, leak detection
                                     tablets, conservation kits at public events.
                                   Goal 3 (cont.d)
                                   • Implementation 3.3: Beautiful Yard Award Program - Encourage
                                     waterwise design and annually recognize and award households
                                     with exceptional water wise yards through the development of a
                     DRAPER CITY
C O MMUNI T Y DEVEL O PMENT




                                     Beautiful Yard Award Program. See South Salt Lake’s Beautiful
                                     Award Program for reference.
                                   • Implementation 3.4: Strategic Water Management Workshop:
                                     Partner with the JVWCD to provide businesses the opportunity to
                                     learn about water conserving practices alongside incentives and
                                     rebate programs.
                                   (Consider applying for the JVWCD Member Agency Grant to receive funding.)
                                   Goal 4
                                   Increase public awareness of water conservation through the City’s
                                   website, social media, and other digital tools.
                     DRAPER CITY
C O MMUNI T Y DEVEL O PMENT




                                   •   Implementation 4.1: Water Conservation Webpage: Increase ease of access
                                       to water conservation information on Draper City’s website by consolidating
                                       water conservation information from the Water and Stormwater webpage
                                       and the Landscaping webpage into one Water Conservation webpage.

                                   •   Implementation 4.2: Commercial Opportunities Section: Promote
                                       commercial rebate programs by creating a commercial opportunities
                                       section on existing Landscaping webpage or potential Water Conservation
                                       webpage. Section may include JVWCD’s Landscape Inventive Program, Utah
                                       Water Savers rebates, and the JVWCD’s Strategic Water Management
                                       resources.
                                   Goal 4 (cont.d)
                                   • Implementation 4.3: Social Media Calendar: Enhance existing outreach
                                     to residents and businesses by developing a Social Media Calendar to
                                     plan seasonal water conservation resources, programs, news, and public
                     DRAPER CITY
C O MMUNI T Y DEVEL O PMENT




                                     information campaigns. Refer to Slow The Flow, USU’s Center for Water
                                     Efficient Landscaping, and WaterSense for potential messaging.
                                   • Implementation 4.4: EyeonWater App: Promote the EyeonWater app at
                                     the conclusion of the AMI replacement. The EyeonWater app allows user
                                     to connect to their utility account and view their water usage, detect
                                     leaks, and set up leak notifications.
                                   Goal 5
                                   Lead by example and increase water efficiency throughout Draper
                                   City’s public landscapes.
                     DRAPER CITY
C O MMUNI T Y DEVEL O PMENT




                                   • Implementation 5.1: Park Strip Conversion Plan: Develop a plan to
                                     gradually convert Draper City park strips to water wise landscapes.
                                   • Implementation 5.2: Turf Reduction Plan: Develop a plan to reduce
                                     turf in Draper City parks and other civic properties that does not fill a
                                     recreational role.
                                   • Implementation 5.3: Irrigation System Upgrade Plan: Develop a plan
                                     to upgrade older Draper City park and civic irrigation systems to
                                     more water efficient systems.
                                   Questions or Comments?

                                                   Contact:
                     DRAPER CITY
C O MMUNI T Y DEVEL O PMENT




                                           Todd Taylor, Planner III
                                         Todd.Taylor@draperutah.gov
                                                801-576-6510
                                            www.draperutah.gov
