MEMO
To: City Council
From: Travis DeJong
Date: 2025-07-01
Re: Public Hearing: Providing Local Consent for a Bar Establishment License for LM
Restaurant Group LC dba The Break


Comments:

LM Restaurant Group LC dba The Break which will be located at 12258 S 700 E is seeking
Local Consent for a Bar Establishment license. They have provided the following:

- Bond payable to the Department of Alcoholic Beverage Services.
- Floor map showing where alcohol is to be served, stored, and consumed.
- A background check conducted by the Bureau of Criminal Identification.
- Proof of being lawfully present in the United States.
- Liquor liability insurance.

LM Restaurant Group LC dba The Break has applied for a business license numbered CBL-
4022-2025. It has yet to be issued.

The findings for Local Consent approval are as follows:

DCMC 6-4-040 requires that a bar establishment be at least six hundred feet (600') away
from any community location (schools, churches, public libraries, public playgrounds, and
public parks) measured by the shortest pedestrian route taken from the nearest patron
entrance of the outlet to the property boundary of the community location.

LM Restaurant Group LC dba The Break has met this requirement.

DCMC 6-4-040 requires that a beer establishment be at least two hundred feet (200')
away from any community location (schools, churches, public libraries, public
playgrounds, and public parks) measured in a straight line from the nearest patron
entrance of the outlet to the property boundary of the community location.

LM Restaurant Group LC dba The Break has met this requirement.

DCMC 6-4-050 states that the total number of bar establishment licenses granted by the
city shall not exceed eight (8). Draper City currently has seven (7) bar establishments.
Granting Local Consent to LM Restaurant Group LC dba The Break would bring the total
number of bar establishments in Draper City to eight (8). If the current applicant is
granted a bar establishment license by the Utah Department of Alcoholic Beverage
Services, Draper City would not be able to approve another bar establishment license
without a change to code or an existing bar establishment license holder relinquishing
such license.




ATTACHMENTS:

Bonds.pdf
ATTACHMENTS:

Floor Plan.pdf
ATTACHMENTS:

Liquor Liability Insurance.pdf
ATTACHMENTS:

The Break Local Consent PowerPoint.pdf
