MINUTES OF THE DRAPER CITY PLANNING COMMISSION MEETING HELD ON
THURSDAY, MAY 22, 2025, IN THE DRAPER CITY COUNCIL CHAMBERS

PARTICIPATING: Lisa Fowler, Vice-Chair
               Commission Member Susan Nixon
               Commission Member Gary Ogden
               Commission Member Mary Squire
               Alternate Commission Member Laura Fidler

NOT PARTICIPATING:
               Alternate Commission Member Christine Green
               Alternate Commission Member Shivam Shah


EXCUSED:             Andrew Adams, Chair
                     Commission Member Kendra Shirey


STAFF:               Jennifer Jastremsky, Community Development Director
                     Todd Draper, Planning Manager
                     Lori Stout, Administrative Assistant
                     Brien Maxfield, Senior Engineering Manager
                     Spencer DuShane, Assistant City Attorney

6:33PM Business Meeting

In the absence of Chair Andrew Adams, Vice-Chair Lisa Fowler called the meeting to order at
6:33 PM and welcomed those present.

1.     Items for Commission Consideration.

      A.      Action Item: Approve Planning Commission Meeting Minutes for March 13,
              2025.
              (Administrative Action)
              Approval of Planning Commission Meeting Minutes for March 13, 2025.

Motion: Commissioner Nixon moved to APPROVE the March 13, 2025, Planning
Commission Meeting Minutes, as presented.

Second: Commissioner Ogden seconded the motion.

Vote on Motion: 5-to-0 in favor.

       Commissioner      Yes    No    Abstained    Not Participating    Absent
       Chair Adams                                                          X
       Fowler             X
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
May 22, 2025
Page 2

        Squire               X
        Ogden                X
        Nixon                X
        Shirey                                                                      X
        Fidler, Alternate    X
        Shah, Alternate                                          X
        Green, Alternate                                         X

       B.      Public Hearing: Kimball Junction Zoning Map Amendment, Land Use Map
               Amendment, and Development Agreement Request.
               (Legislative Action)
               On the Request of Mike Winters, Representing Edge Homes, for a Zoning Map
               Amendment from RA1 and RA2 Zones to the RM2 Zone, a Land Use Map
               Amendment from the Residential Low/Medium Density Designation to the
               Residential High-Density Designation, and a Development Agreement to Set a
               Density Range for Approximately 20 Areas of Land located at 600 East Kimballs
               Lane. Applications 2025-0092-MA, 2025-0091-MA, and 2025-0090- DA. Staff
               contact          is       Jennifer         Jastremsky,         801-576-6328,
               jennifer.jastremsky@draperutah.gov.

Community Development Director, Jennifer Jastremsky, presented the Staff Report and stated that
the 20-acre property is located across the street from the Kimballs TRAX Station at 11800 South
and 700 East. The aerial view shows that the property is comprised of the Olabarri Farm and a
couple of adjacent homes. The Land Use Map identifies a Residential Low/Medium Density
designation that allows one to two units per acre. The request is to change the Land Use Map
designation to Residential High Density, allowing up to 12 units per acre. The Zoning is RA1 and
RA2, which allows for one-half and one-acre lot sizes. They are residential/agricultural and horse
properties. The request is to rezone the properties RM2, which allows up to 12 units per acre.

The Development Agreement calls for a density of 25 to 27 dwelling units per acre, which is an
increase from the RM2 zoning. On the 20-acre site, 540 units would be allowed. The Development
Agreement does not include a Concept Plan or Design Standards, as is typical. In lieu of the
Concept Plan, the Development Agreement specifically calls out that the City and Developer will
collaboratively develop a Concept Plan for the project that will conform to the future Station Area
Plan requirements.

A provision is included that allows the project area to be expanded if additional property is
acquired, understanding that in the future, any additionally acquired property would be required to
be added to the Development Agreement by means of an Amendment. The term of the Agreement
would be until the end of 2032 or project buildout. The Agreement sets forth the objectives for
the Station Area Plan, which is required by the State for properties that are adjacent to all public
transit TRAX and FrontRunner Stations. Ms. Jastremsky reported that the City has a Station Area
Planning process in the works for this station. One is being done for the FrontRunner and one for
the Kimballs Lane and Crescent View Stations. There have been several meetings with stakeholder
groups including residents, property owners, and business owners in the area. An Open House is
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
May 22, 2025
Page 3

scheduled on June 5, 2025, from 5:30 PM to 7:00 PM to gather additional feedback from the public
on the process as it goes forward. The Development Agreement addresses the objectives set forth
by the State for the Station Area Plan and calls for the developer and the City to create a Concept
Plan that will work for both parties while complying with Station Area Plan standards.

The Station Area Plan Objectives were identified as follows:

Objective 1: Increase the availability and affordability of housing including moderate-income
housing. The Development Agreement calls for for-sale units and a Public Private Partnership
with the City to create 30 Workforce Housing units. These will be set aside for public servants
such as city employees, school teachers, and first responders. It will include a $30,000 purchase
discount on the overall price from each party (the Developer and the City) resulting in a $60,000
reduction of the market price for the buyer. Additionally, there will be an emphasis on helping
people who qualify for Utah State’s First-time Home Buyer’s Assistance Program which further
reduces the cost by $20,000, making these units more affordable.

Objective 2: Promote sustainable environmental conditions. The Development Agreement
specifies reducing water demand by installing water-wise landscaping and clustering landscaping.

Objective 3: Enhance access to opportunities. The property is next to a public transit station and
will provide access to the hospital, shopping, the Juan Diego school campus, and employment
along the TRAX line.

Objective 4: Increase transportation choices and connections. As the property is near the station,
residents will be encouraged to use TRAX, which will provide easy walking routes for residents
living nearby. In addition, the developer will support and invest in transportation infrastructure to
include pedestrian and bicycle facilities within the area.

Vice-Chair Fowler confirmed that State law requires the City to consider what is being built next
to public transit stations and asked what radius area near the track must be considered. She asked
if the City could work collaboratively with the Developer or if that would be considered a conflict
of interest. Ms. Jastremsky reported that the radius area around the station is one-half mile and
these properties are located within that distance. She confirmed that the City needs to consider
these developments in concert with the Station Area Plan objectives. She also confirmed that the
City can work with the Developer and the Applicant has been a part of the Stakeholder Committee
for the Station Area Plan.

Vice-Chair Fowler reported that there has been public concern regarding increased traffic from
potentially 500 new dwellings. She asked Ms. Jastremsky to comment on traffic management
going forward. Ms. Jastremsky identified the proposed access points on a map displayed. In
addition to the two proposed access points on Kimballs Lane, there will be several proposed
additional access points on other streets including 11900 South. Given the proposed density, any
development will require a Traffic Study to analyze the impact of increased traffic that may help
determine where the access points should be.
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
May 22, 2025
Page 4

Commissioner Ogden asked where the City’s funding will come from, which will provide the
$30,000 for Workforce Housing. Ms. Jastremsky reported that they will use Redevelopment
Agency (“RDA”) funds, which can only be used for certain things such as workforce housing.

Commissioner Ogden commented on the difficulty of making a recommendation without having
data from a Traffic Study in hand with the impact of such a large development in such a small
area. Senior Engineering Manager, Brien Maxfield, stated that the Developer is obligated to
mitigate any traffic concerns identified. It would be a fairly intensive Traffic Study based on the
proposed number of units. The City will not allow development to begin if traffic impacts are not
mitigated. Mr. Maxfield stated that typically mitigation is needed when a threshold of 100 peak-
hour trips is reached. With 500 units, that level will be reached very quickly.

With regard to Workforce Housing provisions, Ms. Jastremsky reported that the Development
Agreement states that the City will make a good-faith effort to contribute up to $30,000 per unit
toward the purchase price, preferably using RDA funds. The Developer will provide a $30,000
credit per unit to be applied to purchase price reductions or mortgage interest rate buy-downs. The
City and Developer will seek to maximize eligibility for the State’s First Time Homebuyers
Assistance Program which will provide a $20,000 grant to qualified buyers. While the funding is
not guaranteed it is a good-faith effort. Commissioner Nixon was familiar with a similar housing
funding benefit utilized in another city and stated that it is a great program. There is a narrow
window to qualify but a lot of people need it.

Paxton Guymon identified himself as In-House Counsel for the Applicant, Edge Homes. The
application was filed by Mike Winters who is their in-house professional engineer. Mr. Guymon
was present with Steve Maddox, one of the founders/owners of Edge Homes. With respect to the
Workforce Housing component identified in the Agreement, Edge Homes is obligated to provide
$30,000 and the City is encouraged to provide the same amount for 30 of the homes. The goal is
for the Developer, City, and State to collectively provide a complete discount on pricing so that
those who would otherwise be priced out of the market will now have the opportunity to buy one
of the 30 designated homes. If the Developer can provide a discount on more than 30 homes, they
will. Only townhomes and condominiums are being proposed, NOT apartments. Typically,
apartments are constructed around public transit areas. Edge Homes is committed to homeowner
occupancy and will NOT sell to investors, nor will they rent the homes.

Edge Homes is committed to meeting all requirements for the Station Area Plan in a way that
protects the City and Developer through the use of guardrails. These guardrails include the
development of a new zone through changing the current designation to RM2 because Draper City
has no existing zone for this type of property. In addition, the designation of a density category
that works is 25 to 27 units and provides protection from the State potentially mandating
apartments or higher density requirements.

Traffic impact is inevitable in a new development. Edge Homes is committed to implementing
any measures necessary to mitigate areas of difficulty discovered in the traffic analysis. It was
confirmed that the Commission received the letter from Steve Waldrip. Mr. Guymon stated that
Mr. Waldrip has been appointed as the Senior Housing Advisor to the Governor and he works to
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
May 22, 2025
Page 5

implement housing strategies for transit-oriented areas. Mr. Waldrip states in the letter that he has
reviewed the proposed project and finds it to be the type of project the State needs and supports
for the following reasons:

       1.      It will be a ‘For Sale’ project rather than a ‘For Rent’ project which aligns with the
               State’s goal to increase owner-occupied home ownership.

       2.      The density parameters are reasonable and appropriate for a TRAX station
               development. It was noted that they often encourage higher density than this in
               transit-oriented projects.

       3.      The housing products, townhomes, and condominiums are more attainable with
               price points that provide a wider range of homeownership opportunities.

       4.      The Workforce Housing commitments that Edge Homes has agreed to fulfill align
               with the state’s goal of assisting public employees, school teachers, and first
               responders to become homeowners instead of being priced out of the market.

       5.      Providing 500 to 540 housing units in the area will inevitably increase the ridership
               levels of the underutilized TRAX station on 700 East.

Mr. Guymon stated that with the new development taking place downtown, people want to visit
without having to deal with traffic. He commented that the burden of complying with City laws
is the responsibility of Edge Homes. He referenced the following from the Development
Agreement.

   •   Page 5 - Section 2 Development of the Project
       “Development of the project shall be in accordance with the City’s vested laws, the City’s
       future laws to the extent they are applicable, the Plan, and this agreement.”

   •   2.3 - The Developer acknowledges that the development of the maximum residential units
       and every other aspect of the plan requires that each development application comply with
       the City’s vested laws, including without limitation, the City’s geologic hazards
       requirements. Mr. Guymon explained that if approved, a new RM2 zone will be created
       with a new density category that will allow the Developer to design the project.

Mr. Guymon reported that Edge Homes will not only develop the property but complete the
vertical buildout. Edge Homes is committed to its success.

Commissioner Squire asked Mr. Guymon how he would respond to people who claim that the
incentives offered will only increase the price of the homes. If that is the case, she claimed that
this effort still keeps people out of the housing market. Mr. Guymon stated that their goal is to
sell the products and maximize the sale price. They release the price points that will be available
to the general public and show how a $30,000 discount is being given off that amount.
Commissioner Squire asked if Edge Homes is prepared to take major traffic mitigation measures
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
May 22, 2025
Page 6

for this project. Mr. Guymon confirmed that Edge Homes will not be walking away from the
project because of traffic. They are committed to finding solutions to mitigate traffic impacts to
the satisfaction of the City Engineer.

Commissioner Squire asked staff about the impact of the Traffic Study on project outcomes. Her
understanding was that once a Traffic Study is completed and mitigation is proposed, the applicant
must accept and act to mitigate as proposed. Senior Engineering Manager, Brien Maxfield,
explained that the Traffic Study is done as part of the Site Plan and Subdivision Review process.
Any mitigation efforts will be part of that approval.

Ms. Jastremsky explained that as part of the Station Area Planning process, they are looking at
traffic concerns and there will be homes and businesses added to the area that will have an impact.
One of the objectives set by the State for the Station Area Plan is affordable housing. They will
concentrate on areas that can be developed or redeveloped. They want to preserve existing
neighborhoods while meeting the intent of the State. The Planning Commission will review any
Site Plan applications that come forward.

Vice-Chair Fowler opened the public hearing.

Christian Cole gave his address as 11963 South 645 East. Existing traffic concerns were
acknowledged as well as issues that can be addressed now to alleviate future problems such as
double yellow lines on 11900 South. Motorists turn left out of the subdivision even though they
are not supposed to, but it is difficult. Mr. Cole stated that his road does not have an approved
turnaround because the intent was to complete a Traffic Study later. He now speaks weekly with
the Fire Marshal about how a fire truck can access 645 East due to the lack of a turnaround. He
asked that all impacts be addressed in advance. Mr. Cole stated that Mr. Guymon wants to trade
one hour of traffic at the TRAX station for a special event downtown in exchange for heavy traffic
the rest of the time. Mr. Cole did not want to see an additional 2,000 vehicles in the area and
reported that earlier in the day he went to the post office near his home and the roundabout was
completely backed up. As a result, he rode a scooter because it is faster than driving. While he
was happy to help people in the community, he supported helping local residents by constructing
a sidewalk on 700 East. He spoke on behalf of five other families who were unable to be present.

Clair Barrus reported that he resides in the Cranberry Hill subdivision and has experienced the
difficulty of trying to turn left from 700 East onto Kimballs Lane while having the arm of the
TRAX signal come down. He estimated that there are currently 118 homes in Cranberry Hill and
asked if there will be more opportunities for the public to comment. Vice-Chair Fowler stated that
there will be an upcoming Station Area Plan Meeting where the public can speak. Mr. Barrus
urged citizens to come with their neighbors to future meetings.

Candi Brim-Bagley stated that she and her neighbor, Mary Jane Johnson, live at the end of 11900
South, which is not a thru street. The road in front of their homes is a private dirt road. She asked
how their street is shown as an access point when it is a dead end.
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
May 22, 2025
Page 7

Mary Jane Johnson is a 50-year resident. Her street is a private lane and they have the right-of-
way to it. She appreciated the efforts to help people purchase homes but would prefer a much
lower density. She was glad that they are trying to help out school teachers, she was one. She felt
that 540 homes was far too many and reiterated the need for a Traffic Study.

Nelson Glassett gave his address as 12000 South 545 East. He commented that the challenge is
that people moved to Draper years ago for the open space. That has changed over time. He saw
no reason for a Traffic Study and stated that on his street, speed bumps were installed in an effort
to slow down traffic. He pointed out that 11900 South does not access anything. He understands
that growth is imminent, but the number of homes being proposed is not the Draper of old.
Mr. Glassett stated that people do not use TRAX because it is slow. He asked that the Commission
not force housing in the area just to benefit the developer. He was confident that most of the
residents present are opposed to what is being proposed.

Bob Askew, a 30-year resident, resides at 700 East and 11900 South. He was well aware of the
traffic patterns and rides his bike at all times of the day. He considered it disrespectful for Edge
Homes to come before the Commission without any information on traffic mitigation. He felt that
a Traffic Study should be done before any further planning takes place. With regard to whether
the proposed units will increase TRAX ridership, the people who live in the units will not be able
to get to the TRAX station without a pedestrian bridge. There was mention of the $20,000 the
State provides. For 540 units, that would equate to $16 million. He questioned whether that was
realistic and what the price range of the homes will be.

Gerald Lee Romney lives at 12300 South and 700 East in the Salt Creek Condos. He was
concerned that the area near his home is congested by 50 units in a small area. The streets cannot
support that high of density. Traffic on 700 East is terrible and based on recent development, it
appears that there has been no planning. He stated that the streets in his condominium development
are private and must be maintained by the residents. Unfortunately, many use his street as a
shortcut, which was never the intent. He asked about the price of the proposed units and questioned
whether they will truly be affordable housing.

Benjamin Mutuku reported that he lives at 11721 South Kimball Junction. He provided email links
to his research that he asked be made part of the record. The zoning density comparisons were for
the RA1, RA2, and RM3 zones. The Developer is seeking to develop at 25 to 27 units per acre,
which is nearly double the allowable density. He hoped that a Traffic Study would be required as
part of the planning process and stated that it must be done during peak hours. Mr. Mutuku stated
that 500 units equates to about 2,000 car trips per day. Access and safety issues were of concern
as traffic on the surrounding streets will become unbearable. Crime and maintenance were also of
concern. The Draper City General Plan calls for 12 units per acre and what is proposed is double
that. He addressed precedent and public trust and stated that similar rezones have been denied or
withdrawn in Draper City when there has been conflict with the neighborhood. He suggested that
be considered.

Colby Paul gave his address as 544 East and 11900 South. He was very disappointed that the
applicant came in without having completed a Traffic Study when every public comment has been
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
May 22, 2025
Page 8

about traffic concerns. He commented on the horrible traffic he faces when trying to get to
Harmon's grocery store on 700 East. The only access point will be at 11900 South. Edge Homes
has also not completed an Environmental Survey as there are geese, deer, and local wildlife on the
property. Mr. Paul wanted assurance that the homes for which incentives are being offered will
be sold to the right people. He was disappointed that proper precautions were not taken to study
the zoning before conducting the public hearing.

Ralph Broderick gave his address as 626 East 12100 South and is a 43-year resident. He moved
to Draper to be in the country and was surprised by the number of apartments and townhomes that
have been built within a one-mile radius of his home. He worked in construction for many years
and knows Edge Homes well. The buildings they will build will look exactly like an apartments
with the same floor plans. The only difference is that they will be a for-sale product, which does
not benefit the residents. His biggest concern was traffic. He urged the Commissioners to visit
the area and notice the traffic. Most streets are two-lane roads that can never be widened. Each
Commissioner was voted in by the residents and he suggested that they study the concept before
making a decision. He also asked that the Commissioners look at the cost of the units. He
questioned whether most people will be able to afford them, even with the incentives offered.
Mr. Broderick recognized that development will happen but asked that the Commission evaluate
it and cut the density in half. He wants to live the remainder of his life in comfort and safety.

Lisa Austin lives in the development north on Kimballs Lane where there is a combination of
townhomes and single-family homes. Stated that she briefly worked for Draper City. It took her
a very long time today to make the turn from 700 East onto Kimballs Lane to get home in the
afternoon. A large number of people drive to Juan Diego each day where there is non-stop traffic.
She commented on the parking that will be needed for the proposed units and asked where it will
be located. If there is insufficient parking, people will park on the street. Ms. Austin addressed
the TRAX situation and looked forward to using it when she purchased her home. She found that
it is not safe or clean. On more than one occasion she was approached by a homeless or threatening
person. She sees the TRAX train every morning and it is typically empty. Many now work from
home and no longer commute. She stated that the proposed $30,000 incentive is insignificant at
less than 10% of the units the developer is proposing to build. She recognized the need for
affordable housing but suggested it be done the right way and include more people.

Mike Fullwood gave his address as 515 East 12000 South. He acknowledged that the
Commissioners have a difficult job but stated that citizens want consistency. When he built his
home, he could not get approval until he purchased more land and met the City’s parameters for
acreage. His neighbor was not allowed to split her lot because the flag lots were not allowed. High
density was also not allowed but eventually allowed someone down the street to do it. What is
proposed now, is a very high-density project. Mr. Fullwood stated that this TRAX station is
underperforming, which is why the project is proposed. He did not support destroying a
neighborhood to increase TRAX ridership. TRAX doesn’t work for the reasons stated previously.
Mr. Fullwood stated that as a police officer, he knows that the highest crime in the City takes place
near the TRAX station. The second highest crime rate occurs in high-density areas like the one
proposed. The first month after the TRAX station opened there was a residential burglary, vehicle
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
May 22, 2025
Page 9

burglaries, a stabbing, and a death. While the State is pushing the proposed development, it is
ultimately at the discretion of the Planning Commission.

Lynette Kimotho lives on Kimballs Lane. She commutes to the University of Utah and was excited
to ride TRAX. She found that ultimately it is safer and easier to drive. She stated that there have
been thefts in her neighborhood and issues with homeless. She asked them to consider what type
of community they want and encourage more home ownership but in a safe and efficient manner.
She urged the Developer to build in a sustainable manner without compromising the nearby
residents and rethink the density.

Pat Dunn reported that he lives on 11900 South. He understands that growth is inevitable but
asked the Commissioners to take a hard look at what is proposed. He considers Edge Homes to
be equitable and ethical and they do what they say they will do. Ultimately, they supply and sell
products that consumers want. Mr. Dunn’s daughter lives on Kimballs Lane and is looking for
affordable housing. This may be her only option. He asked that the Commission slow down and
think carefully about the decisions they are making and not look to the State of Utah just because
they put a TRAX station in. He urged the Planning Commissioners to “Keep Draper Draper” and
consider whether the City is overbuilt. He urged the Commission to work with Edge Homes and
help them do the right thing.

August Brodges, who resides on 11900 South, took exception to the verbiage use by Mr. Guymon,
recalled that Mr. Guymon talked a lot about affordable housing as a goal, which can change. He
corrected an earlier comment and stated that the affordable units represent 6% of the proposed
units. He stated that something as simple as the proposed zone change will have a significant
impact. He also noted that there is a lot of wildlife in the area that should be protected.

Melarie Wheat, a Cranberry Hill resident, drives her children to Draper Elementary School through
the area every morning. The intersection at Kimballs Lane and 700 East needs work as there is far
too much traffic there. Adding more traffic will only exacerbate the problem. She recognizes that
more affordable housing is needed but the high density proposed does not fit in the area, which is
primarily single-family homes. Duplexes or townhomes would make more sense. She has seen
multiple accidents on 12000 South and 700 East and turning right on 11900 South is very difficult.

Lindsay Hyatt, a Cranberry Hill resident, agreed with the comments made. She asked that the plan
incorporate more green and open spaces. People buying these types of homes will likely be young
families and it is important for children to spend time outside.

Shanna Austin, a Sawback Lane resident, agreed with the traffic concerns and was confused as to
why this is the only option being offered. It seemed that Edge Homes has already entered the
community and is preparing to move forward with development. She agreed that affordable
housing is important but was concerned that open areas are disappearing. Ms. Austin stated that
Edge Homes has a rocky history with Draper and was concerned by their approach. She stated
that the units will look like apartments and did not feel that many options were being offered. She
commented on the wildlife in the area and hoped to protect it.
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
May 22, 2025
Page 10

Paula Glassett gave her address as 545 East 12000 South and urged the Commissioners to witness
the traffic for themselves. She noted that there is not enough room to widen the roads to allow for
the proposed development. Densities of 25 to 27 units per acre do not represent Draper City’s
values. She asked that the Commission look at the development on 300 East and 11800 South
where the developer wanted very high density next to one-acre lots. A transition was needed and
she asked that the developer consider the desires of the neighbors.

Jason Wong, a Cranberry Hill resident, asked the Commissioners to think about what comes after
this. There has been a lot of conversation about traffic and mitigations and he asked what they
will look like. He noted that any mitigation will have to be significant. Expressed his feeling that
the roadway widening would end up tearing out homes.

Jennifer Sturzenegger, a 12000 South resident, commented on the TRAX station and stated that
the guards go down when the light is still green, which is scary. She asked that the lights turn red
beforehand. Since the TRAX station opened, she has seen more people under the influence of
drugs walking down the street than she did when she lived in California. Many neighbors installed
locks on their mailboxes so that their mail is not stolen.

There were no further public comments. Vice-Chair Fowler closed the public hearing.

Vice-Chair Fowler clarified that Planning Commission Members are appointed and not elected.
They make recommendations to the City Council who in this case will make the final decision.
The public will have an opportunity to comment to the City Council at its June 3, 2025 meeting.

Mr. Guymon commented on the Traffic Study and stated that it is based on two key components
consisting of an analysis of the existing traffic counts without the new project and an analysis of
the projected traffic counts after buildout. A meaningful Traffic Study cannot be performed until
a Concept Plan is in place. For that reason, they need to know what density will be allowed.
Mr. Guymon stated that Edge Homes will comply with the Traffic Study requirements. He
reported that 700 East is a Utah Department of Transportation (“UDOT”) road and there are
already serious discussions taking place about widening it. No one present was qualified to say
what mitigations will or will not work. For that reason, Edge Homes hires professional Traffic
Engineers to provide solid, qualified feedback. He referenced a comment that their condominium
projects are nothing more than apartments. He claimed that is untrue and stated that what is
proposed is half the density of an apartment project. He reported that the adjoining property was
approved for 50 units per acre.

Mr. Guymon reported that the State has mandated that a Station Area Plan be in place for high-
density development. The professional hired to advise the City has indicated that the density will
be at least 20 units per acre. Edge Homes will work with the City and the Traffic Engineers to
identify the very best traffic mitigations.

Mr. Guymon commented that on the western edge, there is property owned by the Olabarris’ that
Edge Homes will be buying and developing. The largest property owner is Juan Diego School.
He stated that a letter was submitted by Joe Colosimo who is the representative for Juan Diego and
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
May 22, 2025
Page 11

one of the owners of the management group. Mr. Colosimo supports the project and four-story
condominium buildings adjacent to his property line. It was noted that there is a 50-foot buffer
between the property line and the housing. He did not object to the proposed density of 25 to 27
units per acre and wants to make sure the building heights are less than 60 feet high. He also
supports a for-sale product rather than rentals. Mr. Colosimo wanted his teachers to have an
opportunity to participate in the Workforce Housing Program.

Mr. Guymon recognized that zoning decisions are not easy or popular. They are not based on
popularity and are made by the City. He asked that the Commission allow Edge Homes to move
forward and design a project the City will be proud of. Mr. Guymon stated that they stand behind
their products even when they are not legally obligated to.

Commissioner Fidler asked Mr. Guymon to address the comment regarding 11900 South
becoming a private lane as opposed to being owned by the City. Mr. Guymon stated that it is not
a private lane with the City owning many parcels on 11900 South. Some properties that border
11900 South have property lines that extend to the middle of the road, which is not uncommon.
Edge Homes, however, is not proposing using an ingress or egress point on 11900 South. The
intent is to use it for emergency egress only. A pedestrian and vehicular culvert crossing is
proposed to connect the two sides as well. 11900 South will not be used except in the event of an
emergency where there will be crash gates. Mr. Guymon stated that the Development Agreement
is intended to set the zoning and the density. Details will have to be worked out. The Developer
wants to keep the option open to acquire additional property if needed.

Commissioner Squire remarked that they often consider worst-case scenarios when evaluating
requests. On the list of potential scenarios is the idea of turning 11900 South into a site for ingress
and egress for this property. Whatever can be done at this stage will better alleviate community
concerns, recognizing that some things cannot be done until later. Answering questions in advance
can go a long way to building bridges with residents. Mr. Guymon recommended that the
Commission forward a recommendation to the City Council with recommended conditions.

Commissioner Squire asked about the provision for green space within the project plans.
Mr. Guymon responded that it was included in the original draft of the Development Agreement
but removed in response to feedback from City Manager, Mike Barker. Once the density is known
they can add open and green spaces back in.

A question was raised as to whether anything has been formalized between the developer and Juan
Diego. Mr. Guymon stated that Mr. Colosimo sent a letter by email and Edge Homes responded
that they accepted all of the conditions. It was noted that all of the properties are currently privately
owned. In response to a question, Mr. Guymon stated that they expect the price of the
condominium units to be in the low $400,000 range and are similar to products in other
communities.

He indicated that the City Council took a field trip to the Herriman Town Center to see an existing
project. They were pleased with the design and architectural features and liked that they had
meaningful gathering areas outside of the buildings. Mr. Guymon stated that they would consider
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
May 22, 2025
Page 12

more than 30 workforce housing units. He suggested that the Commission propose that the
Developer and City Council negotiate a higher percentage of workforce housing than 30 units.

With regard to the anticipated mix of condominium and townhome units, Mr. Guymon stated that
it will depend on the density that is approved. They have come up with a new townhome design
that is popular but he expected there to still be more condominiums than townhomes. He expected
there to be 320 condominium units and 180 townhomes. That, however, will depend on what is
done in terms of site planning. The feedback they have received is that residents prefer three-story
condominium buildings along Kimballs Lane rather than four-story. The four-story condominium
building will be 56 feet high.

Vice-Chair Fowler discussed the concerns related to parking, particularly with the apartments and
condominiums near the FrontRunner Station. Parking there is lacking and cars and trailers park
up and down the road. The current parking allotment required for this project is 1½ parking stalls
per unit. She suggested more be considered there to prevent overflow onto Kimballs Lane.
Mr. Guymon commented that the parking count and plan best captured in the Site Plan. He noted
that one of the most effective ways to slow down traffic is to provide diagonal parking.

Ms. Jastremsky talked about the State-adopted Station Area Plan requirement and reiterated that
the City must meet that requirement. The City receives its authority from the State. One of the
Station Area Plan objectives addressed earlier involved increasing the availability and affordability
of housing, including moderate-income housing. State law specifies what a municipality may
consider when implementing those actions. Providing density is necessary to facilitate the
development of moderate-income housing and providing for affordable costs of living in
connection with housing, transportation, and parking. The State did not set a density limit.

The properties that will be developed as part of the Station Area Plan will not include single-family
homes. Edge Homes has been involved in the Station Area Plan with the Stakeholder Committee.
The process includes determining what types of housing are appropriate in different areas. With
the Station Area Plan process, there will be multi-family development. While the Commission is
used to looking at vacant properties and determining what is appropriate for the neighborhood,
that is not true in this case. Ms. Jastremsky reported that the City’s Town Center Station Area
Plan has been adopted and in conjunction, the City Council looked at what properties are
appropriate for more density. Reductions in height adjacent to existing neighborhoods and
landscape buffers were also considered to help soften the transition from existing neighborhoods.

Commissioner Squire asked if the Development Agreement currently states that the applicant will
have to abide by any of the mitigation measures put in place in the Station Area Plan.
Ms. Jastremsky explained that the Development Agreement does not set any standards but
specifies that the City and Developer will work toward a Concept Plan within the Station Area
Plan process.

Assistant City Attorney, Spencer DuShane, reported that he is charged with acting as an advisor
to the Planning Commission, arguing issues on appeal, and drafting agreements. The Station Area
Plan is required by the State from which the City derives its powers. Mr. Waldrip’s letter stated
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
May 22, 2025
Page 13

that the ideal density would be 70 units per acre. In addition, there is no owner occupancy
requirement in State Statute. The City has worked with Edge Homes to cooperatively draft the
Development Agreement. Every agreement the City enters into includes a clause that both parties
have worked on drafting the agreement together. The intent is to ensure that it is fair, equitable,
and compliant with State Statute. State law specifies that a recommendation shall be forwarded to
the City Council, which will meet on the matter again on Tuesday, June 3.

Mr. DuShane clarified that what is proposed is moderate-income housing and not low-income
housing, which are different. Federal and State programs are in place to help individuals with low-
income housing needs. Moderate-income housing plans are designed to address the gap between
those who can afford housing and those who qualify for low-income housing. Some in the State
do not qualify for low-income housing but still cannot afford a home. The State has developed a
moderate-income strategy, which is what the Station Area Plan is trying to address. The plan can
work with higher density. Citizens who do not support this stance should address it with their
Legislators. Mr. DuShane stated that Cal Roberts, for example, is an advocate. He noted that
many of the sponsors of the Station Area Plan Bill do not live in areas where there are stations.

Mr. DuShane reported that he had worked at the Division of Wildlife for four years and considered
himself to be somewhat of an expert to answer wildlife questions. He stated that the two biggest
problems with deer in the State are CWD and Brucellosis, which are two diseases that spread
within deer populations. City deer are especially prone to CWD. He explained that geese can live
in any environment and due to aquatic habitats running through the project area, the geese will
remain untouched and continue to thrive. Other animal species in the project area are already
quasi-adapted to suburban living and will be fine.

Mr. DuShane reported that the issue of traffic mitigation at this stage is premature because there
is not yet a Site Plan. When a Developer creates a negative impact on a City, he is responsible to
mitigate the detrimental impacts. That means that the Developer can be responsible for dedicating
more space for roads. The City can require the Developer to widen or develop additional
roadways, depending on the traffic impact. City Code also requires a Traffic Study as part of the
Site Plan. Mr. DuShane did not recommend the Commission make decisions that are based purely
on public clamor. Additional conditions could be added as desired by the Commission that the
City Council can choose to accept or reject. The Commission was encouraged to look at the plan
and determine whether it complies with State Statute.

Commissioner Nixon asked for a review of what median income in Draper City means.
Ms. Jastremsky stated that moderate-income housing is based on the Area Median Income
(“AMI”) for Salt Lake County. To be considered, a family would earn about 80% of AMI. Low-
income affordable housing is generally calculated for families earning about 30% of AMI. In Salt
Lake County the AMI is $115,000. To qualify for moderate-income housing, a family’s income
in Salt Lake County would need to be about $85,000. Commissioner Nixon asked for information
about the Fire Code requirements for 500 units. It was confirmed that there must be at least two
accesses with a distancing standard between them. Mr. DuShane recommended that this question
be tabled until there is a Site Plan.
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
May 22, 2025
Page 14

In response to a question, Mr. Maxfield confirmed that UDOT owns 700 East, which is on the
State’s Master Plan to be widened. It is supposed to be a four-lane road similar to what is north of
11400 South. That same section is supposed to extend to 12300 South. Comments or complaints
can be submitted to the UDOT Traffic Center or its online portal. Comments regarding arms and
guards at TRAX stations can be made by contacting the Utah Transit Authority (“UTA”).

Commissioner Nixon commented that one month ago, the Planning Commission, City Staff, and
City Consultants participated in a workshop where they discussed Station Area Plans. It was the
unanimous opinion of those present that high density should be located around TRAX stations.
The State has mandated that. She felt that those areas are appropriate for high density. This plan
reduces density from what it could potentially be to what the City feels is much more manageable.

Commissioner Nixon recalled that one of the landowner/stakeholders for the station at 12300
South and 900 East wanted a density of 50 units per acre. She commented that it could be much
worse if left to the discretion of the State.

Commissioner Squire commented on the erosion of local control over zoning issues. She urged
citizens to follow how legislators are voting. The Legislature is packed with people who do not
want cities to have control. Often it results in a lack of control on the part of the Planning
Commission. She was very upset by the way the Legislature has handled some issues by taking it
out of the hands of local government. Additional conditions to be added to a motion made were
discussed.

Motion: Commissioner Squire moved to forward a POSITIVE recommendation to the City
Council for the Development Agreement as requested by Mike Winters, representing Edge
Homes, Kimball Junction Density Allocation, Application 2025-0090-DA, based on the
findings for approval listed in the staff report dated May 13,2025 together with the following
additional or modified findings and the Planning Commission requests that the City Council
do their best and negotiate in good faith with the applicant to achieve the following:

            1. Negotiate appropriate height restrictions by considering neighboring
               properties.
            2. Consider allocating more units beyond 30 to workforce housing.
            3. Consider larger landscape buffers and fencing than required by city code.
            4. As long as property does not change, we would ask for 11900 South to
               remain emergency only access, and that meaning if there are no other
               properties acquired by the applicant on 11900 S.
            5. Consideration for more parking that what the code requires.


Finding for approval:

       1.      The Development Agreement complies with DCMC Section 9-5-200(C) and
               (D) and provides for a density range on the property while still allowing the
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
May 22, 2025
Page 15

             City and applicant to work together to create a site plan that best meets the
             interests of the community and applicant.


Second: Commissioner Ogden seconded the motion.

Vote on Motion: 5-to-0 in favor.

       Commissioner Yes         No    Abstained     Not Participating     Absent
       Chair Adams                                                            X
       Fowler            X
       Squire            X
       Ogden             X
       Nixon             X
       Shirey                                                                  X
       Fidler, Alternate X
       Shah, Alternate                                       X
       Green, Alternate                                      X

Motion: Commissioner Ogden moved to forward a POSITIVE recommendation to the City
Council for a Zoning Map Amendment, as requested by Mike Winters, representing Edge
Homes, for a rezone from RA1 and RA2 to RM2, Application 2025-0092-MA based on the
following:

Findings for approval:

      1.     The Zoning Map Amendment is consistent with the goals, objectives, and
             policies of the City's General Plan.

      2.     The Zoning Map Amendment is consistent with the standards of any
             applicable overlay zone.

      3.     Adequate facilities and services will be available to serve the subject property,
             including, but not limited to, roadways, parks and recreation facilities, police
             and fire protection, schools, stormwater drainage systems, water supplies, and
             wastewater and refuse collection.

      4.     The Zoning Map Amendment will not materially affect the existing Station
             Area Planning efforts underway with respect to the Utah State Code
             requirements of 10-9a-403.1.

Second: Commissioner Nixon seconded the motion.

Vote on Motion: 5-to-0 in favor.
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
May 22, 2025
Page 16

       Commissioner Yes        No   Abstained    Not Participating   Absent
       Chair Adams                                                       X
       Fowler            X
       Squire            X
       Ogden             X
       Nixon             X
       Shirey                                                             X
       Fidler, Alternate X
       Shah, Alternate                                   X
       Green, Alternate                                  X

Motion: Commissioner Nixon moved to forward a POSITIVE recommendation to the City
Council for the Land Use Map Amendment, as requested by Mike Winters, representing
Edge Homes, to amend the designation from Residential Low/Medium Density to Residential
High Density, Application 2025-0091-MA based on the following:

Finding:

      1.     The land use map amendment is appropriate and complies with the
             requirements of DCMC Section 9-2-020(F) and Utah State Code 10-9a-404.

Second: Commissioner Fidler seconded the motion.

Vote on Motion: 5-to-0 in favor.

       Commissioner Yes        No   Abstained    Not Participating   Absent
       Chair Adams                                                       X
       Fowler            X
       Squire            X
       Ogden             X
       Nixon             X
       Shirey                                                             X
       Fidler, Alternate X
       Shah, Alternate                                   X
       Green, Alternate                                  X

      C.     Public Hearing: 136 Center CSD Text Amendment.
             (Legislative Item)
             On the Request of John Bankhead, Representing AREP III DD Land Owner, LLC,
             a Text Amendment to the 136 Center CSD Zone, located at Approximately 13697
             South 200 West, Known as Application 2024-0397-TA, Staff Contact: Nick
             Whittaker, 801-576-6522, Nick.Whittaker@draperutah.gov.
             (Application to be continued to a date uncertain)
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
May 22, 2025
Page 17

The above item was continued to a date uncertain on the agenda.

The commissioners took a short break and the meeting was called back to order at 9:07 pm

2.       Annual Training.
         Required Annual Planning Commissioner Training on Powers and Duties – Presentation
         by City Staff.

Mr. DuShane reviewed cases that came out of the Supreme Court in 2022 and 2024. Enabling
laws were discussed. The following quote was shared, “The authority to regulate land use through
zoning ordinances is conferred on municipalities by the State through enabling statutes, and
consequently, cities must strictly comply with the statute delegating them the authority to act.”
The Commission was commended for its work on the Station Area Plan.

Mr. DuShane encouraged the Commissioners to read the enabling statutes, which also spell out
the Planning Commission’s duties and powers as follows:

     •   Makes recommendations for the General Plan, which includes the Station Area Plan, and
         land use regulations including subdivisions and ordinances.
     •   Makes amendments to the existing land use regulations.
     •   Fills an advisory role to the City Council.
     •   Participates in drafting and recommending the General Plan.
     •   Administer applicable provisions of Title 9 and Title 17 including issuing Conditional Use
         Permits (“CUP”).

Specific cases were reviewed with the first being Springdale Lodging vs. Town of Springdale. A
developer submitted an application for rezone from residential to commercial and the Planning
Director made some regrettable statements. The developer later goes to the Town Council after
the denial and submits a different application than the one presented. The proper procedure would
be to go back before the Planning Commission in the same form. In this case, the opportunity to
be heard must fully comply with the requirements of the constitutional due process counterpart.
The court determined that the case does not rise to the level of a constitutional due process
protected right to speak but based on the Code, it must follow the same logic. The prevalent use
of the term “opportunity to be heard” supports the notion that the common understanding of the
term involves the opportunity to make one’s case before presenting information in an argument in
a meaningful way.

The next case discussed was South Weber City vs. Cobblestone Resort, LLC, which involves
CUPs and short-term rentals. Cobblestone bought a property with a pool with the intent of
expanding it and renting it as a short-term rental. It was never expanded but the owners began
renting it out right away. The ordinance for South Weber requires a CUP for short-term rentals in
any zone and a Business License. Cobblestone obtained the necessary license and the CUP and
the Planning Commission imposed conditions. Within one month, Cobblestone was in violation
three times and the Planning Commission voted to revoke the CUP. The City Council held a
meeting where they questioned whether the Planning Commission has the authority to revoke a
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
May 22, 2025
Page 18

CUP. The City Council then decided to revoke the CUP as well. Once revoked, police showed
up at the property due to an incident involving renters who were fighting. During the tussle a
firearm was discharged. The City then went to the court and got an injunction to prevent further
rentals of the property. Cobblestone argued that the rental was a continuously maintained non-
conforming use and should be allowed to continue.

Under Draper City Municipal Code, it is the job of the Zoning Administrator to revoke a CUP.
Any conditions imposed should be clear, enforceable, and objective.

Other Business:

Todd Draper, Planning Manager, let the Commissioners know that the recently adopted Draper
Town Center Station Area Plan had been certified by the Wasatch Front Regional Council
(WFRC) earlier in the day.

3.     Adjournment.

Motion: Commissioner Ogden moved to ADJOURN.

The meeting adjourned at 9:24 PM.
