                                   Development Review Committee
                                       1020 East Pioneer Road
                                         Draper, UT 84020
                                         February 14, 2025

To:             Draper City Planning Commission
                Business Date: February 27, 2025

From:           Development Review Committee

Prepared By: Nick Whittaker, MCMP, Planner II
             Planning Division
             Community Development Department
             801-576-6522, Nick.Whittaker@draperutah.gov

Re:     Laura Hope Mason – Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit Request
        Application No.: 2024-0455-USE
        Applicant:       Laura Hope Mason
        Current Zoning: RM (Multiple Dwelling Unit Residential), South Mountain
                         Development Agreement
        Acreage:         0.24 Acres (Approximately 10,454 ft2)
        Request:         Request for approval of a Home Occupation Conditional Use
                         Permit in the RM zone regarding a home cottage business which
                         creates and sells art.



BACKGROUND AND SUMMARY

This application is a request for approval of a Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit for
approximately 0.24 acres located on the east side of Tumbleweed Way, at approximately
14285 S. Tumbleweed Way (Exhibit B & C). The property is currently zoned RM, and is
subject to the South Mountain Development Agreement. The applicant is requesting that a
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit be approved to allow for a cottage business
which creates and sells art.

The property is Lot 86 of the South Mountain Subdivision, Phase 9. The single-family
dwelling on the property was built in 2005. The business is operated from a spare bedroom
located on the top floor of the dwelling (Exhibits G, H & I). As the property is subject to the
South Mountain Development Agreement, the provisions for Home Occupations listed in
the 1999 Draper City Municipal Code (1999 DCMC) apply to this application.



Laura Hope Mason Home Occupation                                      App. # «JS_File_Number»
Conditional Use Permit Request                   1
ANALYSIS

General Plan and Zoning.

 Table 1                 General Plan and Zoning Designations                  Exhibit
 Existing Land Use       Residential Medium Density                            Exhibit D
 Current Zoning          RM, South Mountain Development Agreement              Exhibit E
 Proposed Use            Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit
 Adjacent Zoning
    East                 RM, South Mountain Development Agreement
    West                 RM, South Mountain Development Agreement
    North                RM, South Mountain Development Agreement
    South                RM, South Mountain Development Agreement

The Residential Medium Density land use designation is characterized as follows:




According to the 1999 Draper City Municipal Code (DCMC) Section 9-8-020 the purpose of
the RM zone is to “provide areas for low-to-medium residential density with the



Laura Hope Mason Home Occupation                                  App. # «JS_File_Number»
Conditional Use Permit Request              2
opportunity for varied housing styles and character, providing for a maximum density of up
to twelve (12) units per acre for medium to high density residential unit projects subject to
conditional-use permit procedures and conditions for this type of use and based on
minimum development guidelines adopted by the City.”

Home Occupation. The 1999 DCMC, Subsections 9-4-140(a) and (b) outline development
standards applicable to home occupations in this area. Those criteria, along with
information specific to the subject request, are as follows:

Section 9-4-140 Home Occupations.

    (a) Notwithstanding other sections of this Title, a home occupation shall be considered
        a permitted use in any residential, multiple family and agriculture zone if the
        proposed use meets all of the following conditions:

            (1)       The home occupation is a home office, beauty salon, pre-school or day
                      care business, as regulated by the State of Utah.

                  •   The business is not one of the specific uses listed as permitted, but is
                      allowed through a conditional use permit per the 1999 DCMC Subsection
                      9-4-140(b) listed below.

            (2)       The business is owned and operated by the resident of the home.

                  •   The applicant is the home owner and is the primary provider of labor in
                      the home occupation (Exhibit H).

            (3)       No employees, other than residents of the home, utilize the facility.

                  •   The applicant is the only one employed in the home occupation (Exhibit
                      H).

            (4)       For beauty salon, pre-school or day care business, the hours of operation
                      do not begin before 7 a.m. or extend beyond 8 p.m.

                  •   The business is not one of these listed businesses, however the applicant
                      has agreed to limit the hours for customer order pick to between 9:00 am
                      and 6:00 pm.

            (5)       A business license is obtained from, and continually maintained with the
                      City.




Laura Hope Mason Home Occupation                                         App. # «JS_File_Number»
Conditional Use Permit Request                    3
                  •   The applicant has applied for the business license and will continue to
                      maintain it moving forward (Exhibit H).

            (6)       All facilities are inspected by the Fire Department prior to initial use and
                      meet Fire Department standards at all times.

                  •   The applicant has acknowledged that the business is required to comply
                      with inspection requirements and the Fire Code (Exhibit H).

            (7)       All drop-off or customer parking is accommodated on paved portions of
                      the property.

                  •   Customers rarely come to the home to pick up their purchase. This
                      typically happens less than ten times per year. Customers visiting the
                      home are provided with an off-street parking stall that is located on the
                      existing paved driveway in front of the third car garage (Exhibits F & H).
    …
    (b) Any home occupation which does not meet the provisions outlined above shall be
        processed as a Conditional Use in accordance with Section 9-2-104 of this Title.

                  •   This application is for a Conditional Use Permit for a Home Occupation.
                      Additional staff comments and analysis is provided in the Criteria for
                      Approval section of this report.

Criteria For Approval.
The criteria for review and potential approval of a conditional use permit request are found
in Subsections 9-2-104(e) and (f) of the 1999 DCMC. This section depicts the standard of
review for such requests as:

    (e) Requirements. The Planning Commission may permit it a conditional use to be
        located within any district in which the particular conditional use is allowed by the
        use regulations of this Title, and may impose such requirements and conditions as
        are necessary or desirable for the protection of adjacent properties and the public
        welfare. The Planning Commission shall not authorize a conditional use permit
        unless the evidence presented is such to establish that:
           (1)    The proposed use will not, under the circumstances of the particular
                  case, be detrimental to the health, safety, or general welfare of persons
                  residing or working in the vicinity, or injurious to property or
                  improvements in the vicinity;
           (2)    The proposed use of the particular location is necessary or desirable to
                  provide a service or facility which will contribute to the general well-being
                  of the neighborhood and the community; and
           (3)    The proposed use will comply with regulations and conditions specified in



Laura Hope Mason Home Occupation                                           App. # «JS_File_Number»
Conditional Use Permit Request                     4
                    this Title for such use and to the intent of the City General Plan.

    (f)   Factors. The following factors shall be reviewed and considered by the Planning
          Commission in determining whether a conditional use permit application should be
          approved, denied, or approved with conditions.
            (1)     The harmony and compliance of the proposed use with the objectives
                    and requirements of the City General Plan and Zoning Ordinances.
            (2)     The suitability of the specific property for the proposed use.
            (3)     The development or lack of development adjacent to the proposed site
                    and the harmony of the proposed use with the existing uses in the
                    neighborhood.
            (4)     Whether or not the proposed use or facility may be injurious to potential
                    or existing development within the vicinity.
            (5)     The economic impact of the proposed facility or use on the surrounding
                    area.
            (6)     The aesthetic impact of the proposed facility or use on the surrounding
                    area.
            (7)     Whether or not the proposed use or facility is necessary or desirable to
                    the City.
            (8)     The number of other similar conditional uses in the area and the public
                    need for the proposed conditional use.
            (9)     The present and future requirements for transportation, traffic, water,
                    sewer, and other utilities, for the proposed site and surrounding area.
            (10) The safeguards proposed or provided to insure adequate utilities,
                    transportation access, drainage, parking, loading space, lighting,
                    screening, landscaping, open space, fire protection, and pedestrian and
                    vehicular circulation.
            (11) The safeguards provided or proposed to prevent noxious or offensive
                    omissions such as noise, glare, dust, pollutants and odor from the
                    proposed facility or use.
            (12) The safeguards provided or proposed to minimize other adverse effects
                    from the proposed facility or use on persons or property in the area.
            (13) The impact of the proposed facility or use on the health, safety, and
                    welfare of the City, the area, and persons owning or leasing property in
                    the area.
            (14) The appropriateness and compatibility of the proposed use with the use
                    tables set forth in this Title for the zone in which the property is located.

Staff has reviewed the applicant’s application materials for the requested Home
Occupation Conditional Use Permit Request (Exhibits F, G, and H). The applicant is
proposing to use a 192 ft2 spare bedroom located on the top floor of the dwelling to
produce, store and sell paintings. The applicant conducts all sales online and ships most of
the sold items directly to the buyer, however, the applicant has indicated in their submittal



Laura Hope Mason Home Occupation                                        App. # «JS_File_Number»
Conditional Use Permit Request                   5
that there are some rare instances where a buyer will come to the home to pick up their
purchase. This happens infrequently and less than ten times per year. When buyers do
come to the home it is by appointment only between the hours of 9:00 am and 6:00 pm.
Parking concerns are mitigated through the provision of an off-street parking stall located
on the existing paved driveway in front of the third car garage.

Staff believes that the potential detrimental effects related to parking, traffic, customers
coming to the home are sufficiently mitigated by the applicant’s proposed mitigations and
has incorporated them into the suggested conditions for approval. With such mitigations in
place the proposed use would under the circumstances of the particular case, not be
detrimental to the health, safety, or general welfare of persons residing or working in the
vicinity, or injurious to property or improvements in the vicinity. The proposed use would
also contribute positively to the local economy and would be consistent with the current
general plan economic vitality goals for the city which include encouraging and supporting
business diversity by including a variety of business types. No other concerns were
identified with the proposal pertaining to the factors listed in 9-2-104(f) of the 1999 DCMC.



REVIEWS

Planning Division Review. The Draper City Planning Division has completed their review of
the Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit submission. Comments from this division, if
any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Engineering and Public Works Divisions Review. The Draper City Engineering and Public
Works Divisions have completed their reviews of the Home Occupation Conditional Use
Permit submission. Comments from these divisions, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Building Division Review. The Draper City Building Division has completed their review of
the Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit submission. Comments from this division, if
any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Fire Division Review. The Draper City Fire Marshal has completed his review of the Home
Occupation Conditional Use Permit submission. Comments from this division, if any, can
be found in Exhibit A.

Noticing. Notice has been properly issued in the manner outlined in the City and State
Codes.



STAFF RECOMMENDATION

Staff recommends that the Planning Commission review the request based on the findings



Laura Hope Mason Home Occupation                                     App. # «JS_File_Number»
Conditional Use Permit Request                6
listed below and the criteria for approval, or denial as listed within the staff report. The
Planning Commission should also review the request, hear from the applicant, and receive
public comment prior to making a decision.

If the Planning Commission decides to approve the request, staff recommends they include
the following conditions of approval:

        1.      That all requirements of the Draper City Engineering, Public Works, Building,
                Planning, and Fire Divisions are satisfied.
        2.      That a Draper City business license shall be obtained and maintained by the
                business owner for as long as the business remains in operation.
        3.      That all customers coming to the home shall be by appointment only
                between the hours of 9:00 am and 6:00 pm.
        4.      That all customers coming to the home shall park in the off-street parking
                stall on the driveway as shown on the approved site plan.



MODEL MOTIONS AND FINDINGS

Sample Motion for Approval – I move that we approve the Home Occupation Conditional
Use Permit, as requested by Laura Mason, representing Laura Hope Mason, application
2024-0455-USE, based on the following findings for approval and subject to the conditions
listed in the Staff Report dated February 14, 2025.

Findings for approval:

        1. The proposal complies with the standards for approval found in Subsection 9-2-
           104(e) including the regulations in Section 9-4-104 of the 1999 DCMC, and
           potential negative impacts to adjacent properties and the public welfare are
           mitigated through the imposition of reasonable conditions necessary or
           desirable for the protection of the same.

I move that we approve the Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit, as requested by
Laura Mason, representing Laura Hope Mason, application 2024-0455-USE, based on the
findings for approval and subject to the conditions listed in the Staff Report dated February
14, 2025 and as modified by the following additional findings or conditions:

        1. List any additional findings…
        2. List any additional conditions…

Sample Motion for Denial – I move that we deny the Home Occupation Conditional Use
Permit, as requested by Laura Mason, representing Laura Hope Mason, application 2024-




Laura Hope Mason Home Occupation                                      App. # «JS_File_Number»
Conditional Use Permit Request                 7
0455-USE, based on the following findings for denial listed in the Staff Report dated
February 14, 2025.

Findings for denial:

        1. The proposal does not comply with one or more of the standards for approval
           found in Subsection 9-2-104(e) or the regulations of Section 9-4-104 of the 1999
           DCMC, and potential negative impacts to adjacent properties and the public
           welfare are not able to be mitigated through the imposition of reasonable
           conditions necessary or desirable for the protection of the same.




Laura Hope Mason Home Occupation                                     App. # «JS_File_Number»
Conditional Use Permit Request                8
                   DEVELOPMENT REVIEW COMMITTEE ACKNOWLEDGEMENT


We, the undersigned, as duly appointed members of the Draper City Development Review
Committee, do acknowledge that the application which provides the subject for this staff
report has been reviewed by the Committee and has been found to be appropriate for
review by the Draper City Planning Commission and/or City Council.

                                                                                                                      TocM A
                        Digitally signed by Brlen Maxfield                                         OiAfusr
                        ON: C>:US,                                                                 UN.C'\JS.
                        E-brien.maxfleld@drapemtah.gov,
 Brien Maxfield OeDraper, OU=PLibIic Works -                                      Todd A. Draper
                                                                                                   CN*«T^d A. Draper
                        Engineering, CN=Brlen Maxfield                                             □ere :>02S.C2.2a
                        Date: 2025.02.20 09:56:24-07'00'


Draper City Public Works Department                                          Draper City Planning Division



 Don Buckley
                         ON C*US. l:«^nbucki9)^dtaMrylu».O<0rapBrCiiy Fite
                         D«Mnmeni. OU>Fira Martroi. CN.ITon
                                          USiZTW




Draper City Fire Department

                         Digitally signed by Matthew Symes

Matthew Symes O»0raper City Corp., CN=Mallhow Symes
                         ON: C=US. E=matt.symes@arapflruiah.gov.

                         Date: 2025.02.20 10:01:45-07’00'



Draper City Building Division




                                                                             \
                                     EXHIBIT A
                                DEPARTMENT REVIEWS

REVIEWS ARE NOT MEANT TO BE AN ALL INCLUSIVE LIST OF POSSIBLE COMMENTS OR
CONDITIONS.

Planning Division Review.

      1.     No additional comments.

Engineering and Public Works Divisions Review.

      1.     The present and future requirements for transportation, traffic, water, sewer,
             and other utilities for the subject site do not appear to be detrimentally
             impacted as described. Given the location and proposed use, the use is not
             anticipated to generate a significant impact to water, sewer, or other
             potential utilities.
      2.     The number of trips generated by the home owner as the applicant and no
             employees with only an occasional customer(s) visiting the residence will not
             have a detrimental impact to traffic in the area. The applicant indicated that
             the artwork would be presold if a customer were to visit the residence. The
             potential for issues with traffic would be if the applicant decided to have a
             showing or displayed the art for potential customer(s) to visit or have as an
             event where an arrival or departure includes significant vehicles. The capacity
             of the fronting public street is design for typical neighborhood traffic and
             based limited customers, does not represent a significant impact to the
             street capacity. Based on the description of the traffic generated by the
             business, the number of trips generated by the associated occupation is
             limited. Based on the statements of the applicant about limited customers,
             no significant impact to traffic is anticipated with the proposed use.
      3.     The applicant indicated that all needed parking is available in the existing
             driveway and garage. The subject home is located on a public street where
             currently on-street parking is permitted. All proposed parking should be
             within the garage or driveway. The potential for issues with parking would
             be if the applicant decided to have a showing or displayed the art for
             potential customer(s) to visit or have as an event where there would be
             significant vehicles parked on the fronting street. Based on the information
             from the applicant, no significant impact to parking is anticipated with the
             proposed use.
      4.     The proposed use does not appear detrimental to the health, safety, or
             general welfare of the persons residing or working in the vicinity, or injurious
             to the property or improvements in the vicinity.
Building Division Review.

       1.     No additional Comments.

Fire Division Review.

       1.     No additional comments.
  EXHIBIT B
VICINITY MAP
EXHIBIT C
ARIEL MAP
  EXHIBIT D
LAND USE MAP
 EXHIBIT E
ZONING MAP
EXHIBIT F
SITE PLAN
 EXHIBIT G
FLOOR PLAN
      EXHIBIT H
APPLICANT STATEMENTS
Laura Hope Mason
Overview of Proposed Use

I have a BFA in painting and drawing from the University of Utah. I intend to make
paintings using a single bedroom in the upstairs of my home. I am both the homeowner
and the only employee. The room has a keypad lock on it to make it inaccessible to
anyone but the two homeowners. My work hours will be 9am-6pm. Acrylic paintings will
be completed in the bedroom studio and kept until a gallery show or they are sold.
Acrylic paint does not emit any odors and is safe to use indoors. Applying paint on wood
panels or canvas does not make any noise. I buy wood panels and canvas pre cradled
and pre stretched. Large paintings are stored upright in the studio and small paintings
are stored on two floating shelves. There will be no storage of art or materials anywhere
else inside or outside of the house. No one else is involved in the creation of the art.
This business does not use any special vehicle. There will be no upgrades or changes
to the inside of the house. There will be no upgrades or changes to the outside of the
house. I will not change anything to the home structure or yard. Most paintings are
delivered to the buyer by me. Occasionally a customer might come to the house to pick
up a painting. This might only happen a few times per year. They will only occupy the
foyer or front porch. They will not enter the house beyond that. We have a designated
parking space in our driveway for them to park. The estimated time they will be at the
house will be under 15 minutes. They will only pick up paintings between the hours of
8am and 6pm. No more than one customer will be at the house at any given time. They
will have to schedule any pick up in advance. There will be no additional noise or
disruption to the surrounding area or neighborhood. My business activities will not
disrupt or disturb anyone inside or outside the house.
Laura Hope Mason
Analysis of Deviations Requested

I am making original paintings in my home studio. This deviates from the standard
because they are three dimensional objects. I buy my paint and panels and other
materials from art stores. I use wood panels and canvas to paint on and often put them
in a wood frame. The smallest painting size I make is 4”x4” and the largest is 30”x40”. I
use acrylic paint and paintbrushes and other tools to create mountain landscape
imagery on the panel. I will sell the majority of my paintings at local art shows, in
galleries, but sometimes directly through me.
The other deviation is (M) that occasionally a customer will pick up a painting they
bought from me at my house. This might only happen a few times per year. They will
only occupy the foyer or front porch. They will not enter the house beyond that. We
have a designated parking space in our driveway for them to park. The estimated time
they will be at the house will be under 15 minutes. They will only pick up paintings
between the hours of 8am and 6pm. No more than one customer will be at the house at
any given time. They will have to schedule a pick up time in advance. There will be no
additional noise or disruption to the surrounding area or neighborhood. This will not
create any additional pedestrian or vehicular traffic.

I am the owner of the home and the business. I do not have any employees. I have filled
out the fire permit, I will not have any inventory taking up more than 250 square feet, I
will not modify or change any outdoor structures or my yard. Painting with acrylic does
not make any fumes or noise. The studio is limited to one bedroom in the home. There
will be no outside signage indicating my business. Vehicular traffic will be limited to one
customer at a time. There will be no pedestrian traffic to the house. I do not own any
other vehicle other than my own personal vehicle.
Laura Hope Mason- Home Occupation Standards

   A. The small nature of my business will not impact Draper City or its plans.
   B. The room is suitable for my business because it’s upstairs and has a door
      with a lock on it. The art making happens entirely in that room and
      nowhere else in or outside of the house.
   C. The room is not injurious to potential or existing development because it is
      a bedroom inside my home.
   D. The small amount of sales per year will not impact the area economically.
   E. There will be no aesthetic change to the outside of my home.
   F. There is a third parking spot in my driveway for the few customers a year
      that might pick up a painting. Most of my sales will happen at shows or
      galleries, and I will be mailing some paintings. Customers will have to
      make an appointment with me prior to pick up and will only be at the house
      a few minutes. Pick ups will only be allowed between 9am-6pm. There will
      only be one customer picking up at any given time.
   G. No safeguards are needed to mitigate dust, fumes, or pollutants because
      my art does not create them. I use acrylic paint which is suitable for
      indoor/home use.
   H. No one in the surrounding area will be aware that a small art business is
      taking place because there is no sign of such inside or outside the house.

A I own the home and will be the only employee of my business
B I am applying now for the business license and will maintain it as long as I am
selling artwork.
C I will not have any employees other than myself.
D I acknowledge that facilities shall comply with fire, building, plumbing, electrical
and all other city, county, state and federal codes. Inspections during reasonable
hours by city officials may occur as necessary to assure compliance with
regulations.
E All inventory will be in my studio in upright storage. It will not reside anywhere
else or in any outside storage.
F I will have no visible evidence from the exterior of the house that it is being
used for any other purpose than that of a dwelling. I will not alter the front yard to
provide parking required for a home occupation.
G The tools I use to make art do not make noise or create dust, gas, fumes, or
vibrations.
H My business takes up one single bedroom in my home. The home is primarily
a dwelling.
I I will not have any signs indicating my business anywhere inside or outside of
my home.
J There is a third parking spot in my driveway for the few customers a year that
might pick up a painting. Most of my sales will happen at shows or galleries, and
I will be mailing some paintings. Customers will have to make an appointment
with me prior to pick up and will only be at the house a few minutes. Pick ups will
only be allowed between 9am-6pm. There will only be one customer picking up
at any given time. There will be no street parking or traffic created by my
business. There will not be any pedestrian traffic.
K I will not have any vehicles associated with my business and I will not put
signage on my personal vehicle.
L I will not be using my yard for my art business.
M There is a third parking spot in my driveway for the few customers a year that
might pick up a painting. I anticipate between 5-10 customers a year to pick up
paintings at my home. Customers will have to make an appointment with me
prior to pick up and will only be at the house a few minutes. Pick ups will only be
allowed between 9am-6pm. There will only be one customer picking up at any
given time.
N My business does not need any additional utilities beyond typical residential
use.
O The home occupation will be completely contained in my upstairs bedroom.
P My home is a single family home.
Q My business does not involve childcare.
Laura Hope Mason
Statement of Variance Applicability

I do not require a variance, I am seeking a Conditional Use.
Laura Hope Mason
Statement of Compliance with Standards

My home art business will comply with standards because it is limited to one single
room in my house and does not make any noise. The business will not damage or affect
any existing developments or surrounding areas because it is completely contained to
the one room in the house. There will not be any aesthetic impact or economic impact
because it is a very small art business. The small volume of artwork does not affect
anything to warrant safeguarding of utilities. I do not use any chemicals that are out of
ordinary use in a standard household.
    EXHIBIT I
INTERIOR PHOTOS
