                              Development Review Committee
                                  1020 East Pioneer Road
                                    Draper, Utah 84020


                                        STAFF REPORT
                                          June 3, 2025

To:                Draper City Planning Commission
                   Business Date: June 12, 2025

From:              Development Review Committee

Prepared By:       Maryann Pickering, AICP, Planner III
                   Planning Division
                   Community Development Department
                   (801) 576-6391 or maryann.pickering@draperutah.gov

Re:      Urbana – Preliminary Subdivision Plat Request
         Application No.: 2024-0424-SUB
         Applicant:        Jacob Ballstaedt of Garbett Homes
         Project Location: 285 W. River Chapel Road
         Current Zoning: RM2 (Multiple Residential) Zone
         Acreage:          Approximately 3.9 acres (approximately 169,884 sq. ft.)
         Request:          Request for approval of a Preliminary Subdivision Plat for a 30 lot
                           subdivision.



SUMMARY AND BACKGROUND
This application is a request for approval of a Preliminary Subdivision Plat for
approximately 3.9 acres located on the west side of Lone Peak Parkway, at approximately
285 W. River Chapel Road (Exhibits C and D). The property is currently zoned RM2. The
applicant is requesting that the application be approved for the purpose of developing a
30-lot single family subdivision.

The property has historically been used for agricultural, but has been vacant since the mid-
2000’s. In June 2024, the City Council approved a Zoning Map Amendment, Land Use Map
Amendment, and Development Agreement request to allow for construction of a 30-lot
single family subdivision. In early 2025, a Zoning Map Amendment, Land Use Map
Amendment, and Amended Development Agreement were approved to add a 16-foot-wide



Urbana                                                                App. # 2024-0424-SUB
Preliminary Plat                               1
strip of land on the western boundary of the site. This application is for approval of the
Preliminary Subdivision Plat for the 30-lot subdivision.

ANALYSIS
General Plan and Zoning.
 Table 1                       General Plan and Zoning Designations                Exhibit
 Existing Land Use             Residential High Density                            Exhibit E
 Current Zoning                RM2                                                 Exhibit F
 Adjacent Zoning
    East                       CBP (Commercial Business Park)
    West                       A2
    North                      CR (Regional Commercial)
    South                      R3 (Single Family)

The Residential High Density land use designation is characterized as follows:




According to Draper City Municipal Code (DCMC) Section 9-8-020, the purpose of the RM2




Urbana                                                                App. # 2024-0424-SUB
Preliminary Subdivision Plat                        2
zone is to “permit well designed apartments, townhomes, twin homes, and condominiums
at relatively high densities that are appropriately buffered from and compatible with
surrounding land uses.”

Subdivision Layout. The proposed subdivision plat and plans can be found in Exhibit G of
this report. All 30 lots will be developed at one time and there will be no phasing of the
project. A copy of the approved development agreement can be found Exhibit G.

 Table 2                       Subdivision Design Requirements
                               DCMC and DA
 Standard                                             Proposal                 Notes
                               Requirements
 Number of Lots                30 lots max            30 lots
                                                      Smallest: 3,430 sq.
                               Min. lot size of 3,200
 Lot/Parcel Size                                      ft.
                               sq. ft.
                                                      Largest: 6,603 sq. ft.
 Lot Width                     42 feet                42 feet – 79 feet
                               5 to 1 (width to
 Lot Depth                                            2 to 1 (greatest))
                               depth)
                                                      Ranges from 42 feet
 Street Frontage               n/a
                                                      to 69 feet
 Street Width                  32feet min             35 feet
 Street Ownership              Private                Private
 Easements
    PUE Front                  7 feet                   10 feet
    PUE Rear                   7 feet                   10 feet
                                                                               A condition is
                                                                               included to address
      PUE Sides                7 feet                   5 feet
                                                                               this issue with the
                                                                               Final Plat.

Circulation. The proposed street layout will include a loop road with three named streets
(Exhibit G). There will only be one access point to the subdivision from River Chapel Road.
There will be no access to Lone Peak Parkway to the east or any portion of the subdivision
to the south. Because there is only one access to the subdivision, it is limited to 30 lots.

The road will be private with an overall right of way width of 35 feet. This road profile
includes a 22-foot drivable surface, three-foot shoulder, 2½ foot curb and gutter and a five-
foot sidewalk on one side of the street.

Fencing. No fencing is required by code for single-family developments located adjacent to
other single-family neighborhoods. However, fencing will be necessary along the west and
east property lines due to the configuration of the subdivision. This is necessary at the rear




Urbana                                                                     App. # 2024-0424-SUB
Preliminary Subdivision Plat                        3
yards of the properties will back up to the east and west boundaries. There is an existing
fence along the southern boundary. The applicant has not provided details for the
boundary fence, these will need to be provided with the final subdivision plat application.

Criteria For Approval.
The criteria for review and potential approval of a preliminary subdivision plat request is
found in Section 17-3-040(A) of the DCMC. This section depicts the standard of review for
such requests as:

         A.        Planning Commission: The Planning Commission shall review the preliminary
                   plat submittal and determine compliance with the standards and criteria set
                   forth in this chapter and all other ordinances of Draper City, including, but
                   not limited to, the land use ordinance, general plan, master street plan, and
                   City standard specifications and design criteria. Review of the preliminary
                   plat submittal shall follow the process outlined in section 17-1-080 of this
                   title. After the fourth or final review, the preliminary subdivision plat
                   application shall be scheduled for a public meeting. The Planning
                   Commission shall make findings specifying any inadequacy in the application,
                   noncompliance with City regulations, questionable or undesirable design or
                   engineering, and the need for any additional information. The Planning
                   Commission may review all relevant information pertaining to the proposed
                   development, including fire protection, sufficient supply of culinary and
                   secondary water to the proposed subdivision, sewer service, traffic
                   considerations, and the potential for flooding. The Planning Commission
                   shall hold a public meeting, and shall approve, approve with conditions or if
                   the preliminary subdivision plat application does not meet City ordinances or
                   sanitary sewer or culinary water requirements, deny the preliminary
                   subdivision plat application.

         B.        Limitation Of Approval: Granting of preliminary plat approval shall not
                   constitute a final acceptance of the subdivision by the City. Approval of the
                   preliminary plat shall not relieve the subdivider of the responsibility to
                   comply with all required conditions and ordinances, and to provide the
                   improvements and easements necessary to meet all City standards and
                   requirements.


REVIEWS
Planning Division Review. The Draper City Planning Division has completed their review of
the Preliminary Subdivision Plat submission. Comments from this division, if any, can be
found in Exhibit A.




Urbana                                                                    App. # 2024-0424-SUB
Preliminary Subdivision Plat                       4
Building Division Review. The Draper City Building Division has completed their review of
the Preliminary Subdivision Plat submission. Comments from this division, if any, can be
found in Exhibit A.

Engineering and Public Works Divisions Review. The Draper City Engineering and Public
Works Divisions have completed their reviews of the Preliminary Subdivision Plat
submission. Comments from these divisions, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Fire Division Review. The Draper City Fire Marshal has completed his review of the
Preliminary Subdivision Plat submission. Comments from him, if any, can be found in
Exhibit A.

GIS Division Review. The Draper City GIS Division has completed their review of the
Preliminary Subdivision Plat submission. Comments from this division, if any, can be found
in Exhibit A.

Geotechnical Review. The Draper City third party geotechnical consultant has completed
his review of the Preliminary Subdivision Plat submission. Comments from this division, if
any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Parks and Recreation Review. The Draper City Parks and Recreation Department has
completed their review of the Preliminary Subdivision Plat submission. Comments from
this division, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Noticing. Notice has been properly issued in the manner outlined in the City and State
Codes.



STAFF RECOMMENDATION
Staff recommends that the Planning Commission review the request based on the findings
and criteria for approval, or denial as listed within the staff report. The Planning
Commission should also review the request, hear from the applicant, and receive public
comment prior to making a decision.

If the Planning Commission decides to approve the request, staff notes that the following
additional requirements must be met prior to final approval and recordation of a Final
Subdivision Plat and development of the site:

1. That all requirements of the Draper City Engineering, Public Works, Building, Planning,
   and Fire Divisions are satisfied throughout the development of the site and the
   construction of all buildings on the site, including permitting.
2. That all requirements of the geotechnical report are satisfied throughout the
   development of the site and the construction of all buildings on the site.



Urbana                                                             App. # 2024-0424-SUB
Preliminary Subdivision Plat                 5
3. Perimeter fencing details are provided as part of the final subdivision plat application.
4. The Final Subdivision Plat shall include one side yard public utility easement of at least
   seven feet. Alternatively, an Amended Development Agreement or Zoning Text
   Amendment can be approved by City Council to reduce the required public utility
   easement to five feet.
5. Per DCMC Section 17-3-060, if the subdivider has not applied for Final Subdivision Plat
   approval, within one (1) year of the date of Preliminary Subdivision Plat approval, the
   Preliminary Subdivision Plat approval shall be void. The preliminary subdivision plat
   approval and deadline for submitting the final subdivision plat application may be
   extended up to twelve (12) months for good case shown if the subdivider petitions the
   Planning Commission for an extension prior to the expiration date. However, only one
   (1) twelve-month extension may be granted.



MODEL MOTIONS
Sample Motion for Approval – I move that we approve the Preliminary Subdivision Plat, as
requested by Jacob Ballsteadt representing Garbett Homes, for the Urban Subdivision
application 2024-0424-SUB, based on the following findings for approval and subject to the
requirements identified in the staff report dated June 3, 2025.

Findings for approval:

    1.        The proposed subdivision plat complies with DCMC Section 17-3-040(A).
    2.        The proposed subdivision plat complies with the standards and criteria found in
              Draper City Municipal Code, including, but not limited to, the subdivision
              ordinance, the land use ordinance, general plan, master street plan, and City
              standard specifications and design criteria.

Sample Motion for Modified Approval– I move that we approve the Preliminary Subdivision
Plat, as requested by Jacob Ballsteadt representing Garbett Homes, for the Urbana
Subdivision application 2024-0424-SUB, based on the findings for approval and subject to
the requirements identified in the staff report dated June 3, 2025 and as modified by the
following additional findings:

    1.        (List any additional findings.)

Sample Motion for Denial – I move that we deny the Preliminary Subdivision Plat, as
requested by Jacob Ballsteadt representing Garbett Homes, for the Urbana Subdivision
application 2024-0424-SUB, based on the following findings for denial listed in the staff
report dated June 3, 2025.




Urbana                                                                App. # 2024-0424-SUB
Preliminary Subdivision Plat                    6
Findings for denial:

    1.        The proposed subdivision plat does not comply with DCMC Section 17-3-040(A).
    2.        The proposed subdivision plat does not comply with the standards and criteria
              found in Draper City Municipal Code, including, but not limited to, the
              subdivision ordinance, the land use ordinance, general plan, master street plan,
              and City standard specifications and design criteria.




Urbana                                                                 App. # 2024-0424-SUB
Preliminary Subdivision Plat                    7
                                      EXHIBIT A
                                 DEPARTMENT REVIEWS

REVIEWS ARE NOT MEANT TO BE AN ALL INCLUSIVE LIST OF POSSIBLE COMMENTS OR
CONDITIONS.

Planning Division Review.
1.     Perimeter fencing details are provided as part of the final subdivision plat
       application.
2.     The Final Subdivision Plat shall include one side yard public utility easement of at
       least seven feet. Alternatively, an Amended Development Agreement or Zoning Text
       Amendment can be approved by City Council to reduce the required public utility
       easement to five feet.

Building Division Review.
1.     No additional comments.

Engineering and Public Works Divisions Review.
1.     The maintenance agreement is a condition of approval; it is required to be recorded
       and returned to the city prior to issuance of the Land Disturbance Permit for
       construction of the site. Maintenance Plan submitted with the fourth submittal. No
       additional action is required prior to subdivision approval.
2.     Once final plat has been approved, a Land Disturbance Permit is required prior to
       construction activities onsite. Permit is obtained through the Engineering Division.
       Informational comment – no additional action is required prior to subdivision
       approval.
3.     Any work in a public right-of-way will require an Encroachment Permit obtained
       through the Engineering Division. Informational comment – no additional action is
       required prior to subdivision approval.
4.     Draper City requires the engineer of record to provide the subdivision as-built
       drawings, retention basins volume certifications, and site grading and drainage
       certification letter after subdivision construction is complete. Informational
       comment – no additional action is required prior to subdivision approval.
5.     Final geotechnical report is required per DCMC 17-3-030(E) and 17-3-030(L).
       Engineering cannot provide a positive recommendation until the city accepts the
       geotechnical and geohazards reports, through its peer review process, and all the
       recommendations are incorporated into the site design and construction drawings.
       Received with the third submittal. No additional action required.
6.     All subsurface drains or land drains require a private maintenance plan and
       protective covenants per DCMC 17-3-030(K) and 17-3-030(N). Comment is
       informational - no additional action required while no subsurface drains or land
       drains are proposed.
7.     Remove reference to easement within public right-of-way (for master meter).

Fire Division Review.
1.     Fire Department Access is required. An unobstructed minimum road width of 24’
       exclusive of the shoulders and a minimum height of 13’6” inches shall be required.
       The road must be designed and maintained to support the imposed loads of
       emergency apparatus. The surface shall be able to provide all weather driving
       capabilities. The road shall have an inside turning radius of 28’. There shall be a
       maximum grade of 10%. Grades may be checked prior to building permits being
       issued.
       D103.6.1 Roads 20 to 26 feet in width. Fire lane signs as specified in Section D103.6 shall
       be posted on both sides of fire apparatus access roads that are 20 to 26 feet wide.
       ❖       This section requires that parking be prohibited on both sides of narrower
               fire apparatus access roads. 20’ is the appropriate width needed for two
               average-size fire trucks to pass one another. If that width is reduced by
               parking even on one side, it will be potentially difficult for a fire department
               to undertake emergency operations in that area.
       D103.6.2 Roads more than 26 feet in width. Fire lane signs as specified in Section D103.6
       shall be posted on one side of fire apparatus access roads more than 26 feet wide (7925
       mm) and less than 32 feet wide (9754 mm).
       ❖       Because this width is more than sufficient for maneuvering at least two fire
               department vehicles by one another, parking would be allowed on one side.
2.     D103.6 Signs. Where required by the fire code official, fire apparatus access roads
       shall be marked with permanent NO PARKING—FIRE LANE signs complying with
       Figure D103.6. Signs shall have a minimum dimension of 12” wide by 18” high and
       have red letters on a white reflective background. Signs shall be, posted on one or
       both sides of the fire apparatus road as required by Section D103.6.1 or D103.6.2.
       NO PARKING FIRE LANE signs shall be placed every 250’. Please show on plans.




3.     Fire Hydrants are required. . Hydrants are required to be spaced at 450ft as the
       hose lays not as the crow flies for this project. Fire Flow of 2,000 GPM @ 20 p.s.i.
       residual pressure. All fire hydrants are required to be operational and unobstructed
       at all times throughout the project. If at any time a hydrant needs to be shut down
       and made inoperable the Fire Marshal shall be notified immediately.
4.     Utilities. All utilities including Fire hydrants within the required width of fire
       apparatus access roads shall be installed prior to introducing combustible materials
       to a site or commencing vertical construction. Any excavation in the required fire
     department access roadway after combustible materials are on site shall be
     performed in a manner to maintain access to the site and shall be coordinated with
     the Fire Marshal. Combustible material shall not be placed in any way that will
     impede fire apparatus access to any site.
5.   Site Access Required During Construction. Prior to and throughout construction a
     form of acceptable temporary Fire Department Access to the site shall be installed
     this includes turn arounds. The required access for fire apparatus access shall have
     a base material capable of supporting a 75,000 lbs vehicle, during most-weather
     conditions, installed and compacted to 95% relative compaction at a minimum of 26’
     wide. There shall be no parking of construction vehicles, sub-contractor vehicles
     within the required fire access they shall be parked on the non-hydrant side of the
     road to allow for emergency vehicles to still access the subdivision. If at any time
     during the building phase any of the hydrants or temporary Fire Department Access
     becomes non-compliant any and all permits could be revoked.
6.   Access and Fire Protection During Construction. All buildings under construction
     shall meet the requirements of IFC Chapter 33, Fire Safety During Construction and
     Demolition as well as all of the sections detailed in this document.
7.   IFC SECTION 3310 ACCESS FOR FIRE FIGHTING DURING CONSTRUCTION
     3310.1.1 Required access. Approved vehicle access for firefighting shall be, provided to all
     construction or demolition sites. Vehicle access shall be provided to within 100’ of
     temporary or permanent fire department connections. Either temporary or permanent
     roads, capable of supporting vehicle loading under all weather conditions, shall provide
     vehicle access. Vehicle access shall be, maintained until permanent fire apparatus access
     roads are available.

     ❖      Until permanent fire apparatus access roads are constructed, firefighting
            vehicle access is the means by which fire fighters gain access to the
            construction or demolition site and building for fire suppression and rescue
            operations. Such access is an integral component of the fire prevention
            program. The site superintendent or other person responsible for
            construction and demolition operations is responsible for maintaining and
            policing fire-fighter access routes, as provided in Section 3308. Fire apparatus
            must be able to get within 100’ of any installed fire department connection
            supplying water to temporary or permanent fire protection systems. Access
            roads must support the weight of the heaviest vehicle that might respond.
            The weight requirements are available from the local fire department. All-
            weather surfaces are required because the responding fire department
            should not waste time moving snow or trying to get out of mud.
8.   No combustible construction shall be allowed prior to hydrant installation and
     testing by water purveyor. All hydrants must be operational prior to any
     combustible elements being received or delivered on building site.
9.     Visible Addressing Required. New and existing buildings shall have approved
       address numbers plainly legible and visible from the street fronting the property.
       These numbers shall contrast with their background.
10.    Street Signs required and are to be posted and legible prior to building permits
       being issued. All lots to have lot number or address posted and legible.
11.    Plan approval or review shall not be construed to relieve from or lessen the
       responsibility of any person designing, owning, operating or controlling any
       building. Damages to persons or property caused by defects, fire, improper
       installation, or other emergency conditions that occur in or on the building property
       shall not hold the Draper City Fire Department as assuming any liability.

GIS Division Review.
1.     No additional comments.

Geotechnical Review.
1.     No additional comments.

Parks and Recreation Review.
1.     No additional comments.
  EXHIBIT B
VICINITY MAP
 EXHIBIT C
AERIAL MAP
  EXHIBIT D
LAND USE MAP
 EXHIBIT E
ZONING MAP
          EXHIBIT F
PRELIMINARY SUBDIVISION PLAT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          SURVEYOR'S CERTIFICATE
                       11400 SOUTH
                                                                                             LEGEND
                                                                                                                                                                                                       BOUNDARY
                                                                                                                                                                                                       SECTION LINE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Line Table
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  URBANA                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       I, EVAN J. WOOD, DO HEREBY CERTIFY THAT I AM A PROFESSIONAL LAND SURVEYOR,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               AND THAT I HOLD LICENCE NUMBER 183395 AS PRESCRIBED UNDER THE LAWS OF THE
                                                                                                                                                                                                       EASEMENT
                                                                                                                                                                                                       RIGHT-OF-WAY LINE
                                                                                                                                                                                                       CENTERLINE                                        LINE      DIRECTION                  LENGTH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     PRELIMINARY PLAT                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          STATE OF UTAH. I FURTHER CERTIFY THAT BY THE AUTHORITY OF THE OWNERS, I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               HAVE MADE A SURVEY OF THE TRACT OF LAND SHOWN ON THIS PLAT AND
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               DESCRIBED BELOW, AND HAVE SUBDIVIDED SAID TRACT OF LAND INTO LOTS,
                                                                                                                                                                                                       BUILDING SETBACK
                                                                                                                                                                                                       EXISTING PROPERTY LINE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              L1   N89°31'08"E                      2.00                      LOCATED IN THE SOUTHEAST 1/4 OF SECTION 24, TOWNSHIP 3 SOUTH, RANGE 1 WEST                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       STREETS, AND PARCELS HEREAFTER TO BE KNOWN AS:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              L2   N26°39'42"E                      3.25                                            SALT LAKE BASE & MERIDIAN




                                                                       I-15
                                                                                                                                                                                                       SECTION MONUMENT (FOUND)
                       RIVER                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  L3   S89°37'40"E                      2.00
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                DRAPER CITY, SALT LAKE COUNTY, UTAH                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      URBANA
                CHAPEL ROAD                                                                                                                                                                            STREET MONUMENT (TO BE SET)                            L4   S89°37'40"E                      28.00
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            FEBRUARY 2025
                                                                                                                                                                                                       BOUNDARY MARKERS                                       L5   S00°22'20"W                      18.50                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      AND THAT THE SAME HAS BEEN CORRECTLY SURVEYED AND STAKED ON THE
                                                            PROJECT
                                                            LOCATION                                                                                                                                                                                          L6   N00°22'20"E                      18.50
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               GROUND AS SHOWN ON THIS PLAT.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            GRAPHIC SCALE



                                                LONE P
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              L7   S00°28'52"E                      18.50

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              L8   N89°31'08"E                      28.00
                        W BUBBLING BROOK LN                                                                                                                                                                                                                   L9   S00°28'52"E                      18.50
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         O R
                                                      EAK PA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ( IN FEET )                                                                                                                                                                                                                             F IEW
                                                        KWAY R                                        24                                  24
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              1 inch = 40 ft.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         EV Y
                                                                                                      24                                  24
                                                                                                                                                                                  CENTER OF SECTION 24, T3S, R1W, SLB&M
                                                                                                                                                                                  3" ROUND TOP BRASS (FOUND)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    EVAN J. WOOD                           R NL                      Date
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Professional Land Surveyor
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Licence No. 183395                        O
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     20'x10' WATER
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    EASEMENT FOR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      RIVER CHAPEL ROAD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    MASTER METER                                                                                                        (PUBLIC - 60' WIDE)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              BOUNDARY DESCRIPTION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ENTRY #12308024
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              A part of the Southeast Quarter of Section 24, Township 3 South, Range 1 West, Salt Lake Base &
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      CH=S83°40'01                                                                         20.0' GARAGE                                                                                                                                                                                    R=25.00'
 VICINITY MAP                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            C11                                                                                                                                    "E 284.94'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         SETBACK (TYP.)                                                                                      8'                                                                                            Δ=90°00'54"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Meridian, more particularly described as follows:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        LIGHT COMPANY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          L=288.49'                                                                                                                                                  "E 71.4




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               50'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ° 4 4 '23                                                                                                       L=39.28'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Δ=31°11'12"                                                                                                                                    N80                                                                                                                                                                                                          Beginning at a point on the northerly lot line of Lot 13, Sunrise Station Phase 2 recorded as




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              54.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   10' PU & DE                                                                                                                                                                                             CH=S54°15'30"E 35.36'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        C13                                               R=530.00'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Entry #7652264 on file with the Salt Lake County Recorder, said point also being located
NOTES:                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        121                                                                                        C14
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           L2                                                                                             C1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  N00º07'28”E 540.08 feet along the Quarter Section line to the northerly line of said Sunrise Station




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           LONE PUBLIC - 89' WIDE)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0.12 acres
 1. #5 X 24" REBAR & CAP (FOCUS ENG) TO BE SET AT ALL REAR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 PARCEL A                                                                                                                                                                                     Phase 2 and along said line S89º37'40”E 194.28 feet from the South Quarter of Section 24, Township




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 C6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            5267 sqft




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    11673 S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       18.00'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           5'
    LOT CORNERS. NAILS OR PLUGS TO BE SET IN TOP BACK OF                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      3 South, Range 1 West, Salt Lake Base & Meridian; running thence along the southeasterly deed line




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              72



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          07'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0.17 acres




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        55.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  C2




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      69.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         116
    CURB AT EXTENSION OF SIDE LOT LINES, IN LIEU OF REBAR                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     as described in Special Warranty Deed recorded as Entry No. 11107795 of official records




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           (P
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      N89°31'08"E 118.72'                           11675 S                                                                                                           7564 sqft
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     N6 87.00                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         94.64'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   21.50'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        21.50'
    AND CAPS AT FRONT LOT CORNERS.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     3°2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    N26°39'42"E 412.47 feet to the southerly right-of-way line of River Chapel Road as deeded by a
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0'1 '87.00                                                                                                                                                 FUSHION LANE                                                                                                                                                                                           7"W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  EAK PA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           C5                                                                      S80°44'3




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               00'
 2. LOTS 117-120 HAVE PRIVATE STORM DRAIN RETENTION AREA                                                                                                                                                                                                    27-24-451-014                                                                                                                    8"W '                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Special Warranty Deed recorded as Entry No. 12308424 of official records; thence along said




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           47.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                (PRIVATE STREET - 35' WIDTH)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       42.00'
    FOR LOT RUNOFF RETENTION, OWNERS ARE TO MAINTAIN                                                                                                                                                                                        CORPORATION OF THE PRESIDING BISHOP OF THE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     120
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      10' PU & DE                                                                                         101                                                                                                                                 right-of-way the following three (3) courses: (1) Easterly along the arc of a non-tangent curve to the




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              C3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   13.50'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          11677 S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     N89°31'08"E 175.54'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           13.50'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            CHURCH OF JESUS CHRIST OF LATTER-DAY SAINTS
    RETENTION CAPACITY, RETENTION BASINS WILL BE DESIGNED                                                                                                                                                                                                 ENTRY #11107795                                                                                                                                                                                                                              10' PU & DE                                                                                                                                          C4                                                                                           0.08 acres                                                                                                                           left having a radius of 530.00 feet (radius bears: N21°55'35"E) a distance of 288.49 feet through a
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    0.09 acres                                                                                                                                                       N89°31'08"E 155.07'                                                                               C9




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            S
    AND INCLUDED ON THE SF SITE PLAN WITH BUILDING PERMIT.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              RKWAY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    3699 sqft                                                                                                                            central angle of 31°11'12" Chord: S83°40'01"E 284.94 feet; thence (2) N80°44'23"E 71.48 feet;
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    4089 sqft                                                 18.                                C1                                                                                                                                  33.74'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          82
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 50'                                                    32.33'                         42.00'                    47.00'
 3. ALL COMMON AREAS AND PRIVATE ROADS ARE TO SERVE AS A                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      thence (3) Southeasterly along the arc of a non-tangent curve to the right having a radius of 25.00




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        116
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  13.                                                                                                                                                                                                                18.50'                                                                           "E




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             13.67'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        50'                                                                                                                                                                                       13.50'                                                                             N80°44'3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                7




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             00'
    PUBLIC UTILITY AND DRAINAGE EASEMENTS.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 N6 87.00                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           feet (radius bears: S09°15'57"E) a distance of 39.28 feet through a central angle of 90°00'54" Chord:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               5 '




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         47.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       7'
 4. PARCEL A RETENTION BASIN TO BE CONVEYED TO AND                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           3°2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        8 6 .2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0'1 '                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        S54°15'30"E 35.36 feet to the westerly right-of-way line of Lone Peak Parkway as deed by a Special




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   2.4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         .00
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    8"W                                                                                                                                                   259 W                                253 W                                      247 W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                42.00'
    MAINTAINED BY THE HOA.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            267 W                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 102                                                                                                                               Warranty Deed recorded as Entry No. 12404696 of official records; thence along said right-of-way




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 50
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                41




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               11683 S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        5' PU & DE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      119




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        H)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     N0°28'52"W
 5. PARCELS B AND C TO BE CONVEYED TO AND MAINTAINED BY




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ION LA2' WIDTH)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      N0°28'52"W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              line S09°15'23"E 330.76 feet to the northerly subdivision line of Sunrise Station Phase 1; thence




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          N0°28'52"W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                .26 IDT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0.08 acres




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       2"E T - 32 NE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              2"W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          123                                   124




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       81.67'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            (PRIVA °15'23"E 151.4 2.00'
    THE HOA.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           122




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        81.67'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.10 acres




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                3.87'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              along said subdivision S89°31'08"W 376.42 feet; thence to and along the northerly subdivision line of




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            81.67'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          3623 sqft




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            11684 S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          125




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            268 ' W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              NE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               6°3 TREE LA




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             65.49'
 6. PARCEL A AND LOTS 101-105 SHALL HAVE NO ACCESS TO LONE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           4350 sqft                                                                                                                                                                                               0.09 acres




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   56'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          9'4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0.08 acres




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Sunrise Station Phase 2 N89°37'40"W 244.33 feet to the point of beginning.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    86




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            4.80'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0.12 acres




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         2"W 16
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0.11 acres                                                                                                                                                                                                        10' PU & DE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              79.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 1'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             3838 sqft                                                                                                                                                                                     "E




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 '
    PEAK PARKWAY.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            N6 87.00                                                                                                                                                                                   3430 sqft                                                                                                                                                                                                                 7




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             .23
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               116
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      6°3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         N80°44'3




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              11683 S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          NA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         5323 sqft                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Contains: 3.98 acres+/-




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           00'
                                                                                                                                          MEASURED: N00º07'28"E 2644.88'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               3°2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     4612 sqft
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   0'1 '




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      3"W 12
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            86.25'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         138




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     REET -
 7. LOT 121 SHALL HAVE NO ACCESS TO RIVER CHAPEL ROAD.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        50.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             30 Lots




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   S2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      8"W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           IVA BA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          00'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 N9°15'2
 8. PARCELS A, B AND C ARE COMMON AREAS AND WILL SERVE AS                                                                                                                                                                                                           10' PU & DE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    2"E




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         47.00'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           3 Parcels
                                                                                                         (RECORD: N00º07'28"E 2644.91')




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   9'4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  103




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        47.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        (PR UR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                TE
    PUBLIC UTILITY EASEMENTS.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   TE ST
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                9'4




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              N9°15'2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  118




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      11691 S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  H




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 6'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            6°3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               47.00'                                 N89°31'08"E 63.50'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           N2
 9. LANDSCAPE FOR THE PARK STRIP ALONG RIVER CHAPEL ROAD                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               N89°31'08"E 86.42'                                                                42.00'                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0.09 acres




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          E 330.7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                .61
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      2S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 S9
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0.09 acres




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         N2




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              47.00'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     S89°31'08"W 42.00'                                                                          56.50'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              U
    & LONE PEAK PARKWAY, ADJACENT TO THE DEVELOPMENT TO                                                                                                                                                                                                              5' PU & DE                                                                                                                                                                 51.42'                  42.00'                                                                                                             47.00'                                                                                                                                                               4054 sqft




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             255
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 4089 sqft




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        240 W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            F
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     9
    BE MAINTAINED BY THE HOA




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 116




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         2"E




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           59.31'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              42.00'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    N6 87.00                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  7"E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     N80°44'3




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                126




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            .62
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 6°3 '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               N2 7.00




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          3"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      3°2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0'1 '                                                                                                           130




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     9'4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        86.2 '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 OWNER'S DEDICATION




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       68'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          212




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           S0°28'52"E




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  S9°15'2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             8"




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           00'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    58.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               0.12 acres




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             81.67'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0.13 acres




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         S0°28'52"E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         129                                    128                                      127                                                                                                                                                                            104




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        3"W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       S0°28'52"E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       50.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             S0°28'52"E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 5567 sqft                                                                                                                                                                     5089 sqft
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 117




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           81.67'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           11697 S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         81.67'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    11693 S
                                     Curve Table




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               81.67'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          42.00'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        11694 S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0.08 acres




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            N9°15'2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0.08 acres                             0.09 acres                                                                                                                                                                                                              0.08 acres




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                0.10 acres                                                                                                                                                              3430 sqft                              3838 sqft                                3430 sqft                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               KNOW ALL MEN BY THESE PRESENTS THAT I/WE, THE UNDERSIGNED OWNER(S) OF




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    98
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       3623 sqft
   CURVE     RADIUS      DELTA       LENGTH   CHORD DIRECTION          CHORD LENGTH                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             4313 sqft                                                    13.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                THE HEREON DESCRIBED TRACT OF LAND, HEREBY SET APART AND SUBDIVIDE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 116
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   50'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    13.50'                                                                                     86.25'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 S63                                                                                                                                      268 W                                          262 W                                 258 W                                    256 W                                   248 W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                THE SAME INTO LOTS, STREETS AND PARCELS AS SHOWN ON THIS PLAT AND
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     PARCEL C




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     54'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      L4            °20
     C1       530.00     17°28'11"   161.60      S89°28'29"W                  160.97
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   75. '18"E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         6.23'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         L8                                                                         11701 S                       NAME SAID PLAT




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 42.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        L6                                            27'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0.03 acres
     C2       52.00      48°12'49"    43.76       S66°22'28"E                 42.48                                                                                                                                                          11702 S                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     6.74'     L7




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 L5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                C8                                                                                                                                                 L1




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           C7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       L3                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            1405 sqft
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            L9
     C3       52.00      33°00'40"    29.96       S25°45'43"E                 29.55                                                                                                                                                  PARCEL B                                                                                                                                                                                S89°37'40"E                                 37.37'                          42.00'                                  47.00'                                   42.00'                               46.78'                                                                                                       C15             N89°31'08"E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         URBANA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             87'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  18.50' 13.50'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    10' PU & DE                                                                35.78'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  13.50'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              N89°31'09"E 215.15'


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   18.50' 13.50'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   S89°37'40"E 44.69'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    13.50'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          C12




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  18.50' 13.50'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0.03 acres              72.                                                                                                                                                    22.32'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          5' PU & DE                                                                      10' PU & DE
     C4       33.50      81°13'42"    47.49      N49°52'10"W                  43.61                                                                                                                                                               1431 sqft                                                                   101.74'                                                           76.33'                                                                                                                                                254.32'                                                                                                                                                                                                        94.50'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             S89°37'40"E 178.07'                                                                                                                                                                                             N89°31'09"E 348.82'
     C5       52.00      81°13'29"    73.72      N49°52'08"W                  67.70                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         10' PU & DE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       11705 S                        PIXEL LANE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                AND DO HEREBY DEDICATE, GRANT AND CONVEY TO DRAPER CITY, UTAH: (1) ALL
     C6       15.00     117°08'34"    30.67       S31°54'35"E                 25.60                                                                                                                                                                                   25.07'                                                                                                                                                                                                             10' PU & DE                  (PRIVATE STREET - 32' WIDTH)                                             N89°31'09"E 348.96'                                                                                                                                                                                                                14.35'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      S89°37'40"E 178.21'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       THOSE PARTS OR PORTIONS OF SAID TRACT OF LAND DESIGNATED AS STREETS,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   60.07'                       42.00'                        50.01'                                                                                                                                     42.00'                                  50.00'                                    42.00'           42.00'                                                              50.00'                                                               42.00'                          65.50'
     C7       20.00     116°17'22"    40.59       S31°28'59"E                 33.98                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           42.01'                                                37.80'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      THE SAME TO BE USED AS PUBLIC THOROUGHFARES FOREVER; (2) THOSE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 9.20'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        27-24-453-019           CERTAIN PUBLIC UTILITY AND DRAINAGE EASEMENTS AS SHOWN HEREON, THE
     C8       20.00      98°46'31"    34.48      N40°07'52"E                  30.37
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       DRAPER CITY              SAME TO BE USED FOR THE INSTALLATION, MAINTENANCE, AND OPERATION OF
     C9       20.00      81°13'29"    28.35      N49°52'08"W                  26.04
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                279 W                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           249 W                                                 243 W                                                         237 W                            231 W                                                                            ENTRY #12404696           PUBLIC UTILITY SERVICE LINES AND DRAINAGE; AND (3) THOSE PARCELS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   281 W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   S0°28'52"E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     273 W                                  271 W                                                 267 W                                 261 W                                    257 W                                    253 W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          S0°28'52"E




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 S0°28'52"E




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           S0°28'52"E




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         S0°28'52"E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                DESIGNATED AS PUBLIC OPEN SPACE, PARKS, TRAIL OR EASEMENTS, OR OF




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           S0°28'52"E




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              S0°28'52"E




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        S0°28'52"E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  S0°28'52"E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 S0°28'52"E




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     81.68'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                82.64'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  S0°28'52"E
     C10      20.00      62°51'26"    21.94      S58°05'25"W                  20.86




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            81.67'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   81.67'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          105




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             81.67'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           81.67'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                115                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               108                                                107




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             81.68'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                81.67'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       114




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          81.67'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    81.67'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                SIMILAR DESIGNATION.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   81.68'



                                                                                                                                                                                                                     POINT OF                                            116                                                                                                                               113                                                    112                                    111                                                                              109                                                                                                                                                        106
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         09'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 110
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    81.68'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        91.




     C11      530.00     9°32'50"     88.31      N72°50'50"W                  88.21                                                                                                                                 BEGINNING                                           0.15 acres
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               0.08 acres                            0.09 acres                          0.08 acres                                      0.09 acres                                     0.08 acres                              0.09 acres                               0.08 acres                              0.08 acres                                      0.09 acres                                                         0.08 acres                          0.12 acres
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               3431 sqft                             4084 sqft                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   3430 sqft                                       4084 sqft                                                                                              5211 sqft
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                IN WITNESS WHEREOF, WE HAVE HEREUNTO SET OUR HANDS THIS _________DAY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        6603 sqft                                                                                                                        3431 sqft                                       3839 sqft                                      3430 sqft                               4084 sqft                                3430 sqft                                                                                                                                                  3430 sqft
     C12      20.00      22°18'03"    7.78       N79°13'18"E                   7.74                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             OF_________________, 20____ .
     C13      530.00     2°07'13"     19.61       S78°38'04"E                 19.61                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     10' PU & DE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     8.69'
     C14      530.00     2°05'46"     19.39       S80°44'33"E                 19.39
                                                                                                                                                                                               (RECORD S89º37'52"E 212.02')                                          101.63'                                                    42.00'                                                                                                                                                                                                            50.00'                                    42.00'                                42.00'                                               50.00'                                                            42.00'                                   70.11'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     50.01'                                 42.01'                                                38.31'                                42.00'
     C15      20.00      39°48'54"    13.90       S70°34'25"E                 13.62
                                                                                                                                                                                               S89º37'40"E 194.28' (TIE)                                                                                                N89°37'40"W 244.33'                                                                                                                                                                                                          5' PU & DE                                                      S89°31'08"W 376.42'                                                                                                                        10' PU & DE

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 LOT 14
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     LOT 13                    LOT 12                                         LOT 11                                 LOT 10                                     LOT 9                                              LOT 8                                         LOT 7                                     LOT 6                                        LOT 5                                           LOT 4                                                              LOT 3                                           LOT 2                                                       LOT 1                                                   URBANA DRAPER INVESTMENT, LLC.
   COUNTY HEALTH DEPARTMENT                                                                                                                                                                                                     QPAR, LLC         DDD&B, LLC              COOK FAMILY                                 JCS HOLDINGS                                SCOT K &                                    CARSON                                              LIU FAMILY                            TANMAY PAL &                               MOHOMMED &                                   KEWAL &                                       DAVID B &                                                                TOMAS                                          TUCKER T &                                    AMH 2014-3
                                                                                                   ALONG QUARTER




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             TRUST                                    OF UTAH, LLC                             TRACY L PERRIT                                  KOPSA                                                TRUST                              SUMANTI MANDAL                               AMER JAMIL                               REENA BHUMBA                                   BECKIE R KNAUB                                                            ROMERO                                           TRISTEN M                                  BORROWER, LLC
                                                                                                    SECTION LINE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     JALJOULI                                                                                                                                                                                                          SIERZEGA
                                                                                                                                                                           (RECORD: 539.16')
                                                                                                                                          540.08' (TIE)




APPROVED THIS _____ DAY OF_________________________ A.D.,                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     SUNRISE STATION PHASE 1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ENTRY #7652263
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            LIMITED LIABILITY ACKNOWLEDGMENT
20_____.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       SUNRISE STATION PHASE 2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ENTRY #7652264
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               STATE OF UTAH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               S.S.
__________________________________________________________                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     COUNTY OF ___________
DIRECTOR, SALT LAKE COUNTY BOARD OF HEALTH




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     R1W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     R1E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ON THE ____ DAY OF ____________________ A.D. 20____ PERSONALLY APPEARED BEFORE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        (RECORD MERIDIAN SURVEY: N89º46'37"W 2653.41')
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ME , THE UNDERSIGNED NOTARY PUBLIC, IN AND FOR THE COUNTY OF
                       RECORD OF SURVEY                                                               24 24                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ___________________, IN SAID STATE OF UTAH, _________________________________, WHO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        BASIS OF BEARING: N89º46'37"W 2653.37'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  24                        19
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               AFTER BEING DULY SWORN, ACKNOWLEDGED TO ME THAT HE/SHE IS THE
                                                                                                      25 25                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ___________________________ OF _______________________ L.L.C., A UTAH LIMITED
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                25                         30
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               LIABILITY COMPANY AND THAT HE/SHE SIGNED THE OWNER'S DEDICATION FREELY
                                              ROS: S2019-09-0697                                         SOUTH QUARTER CORNER
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                SOUTHEAST CORNER OF SECTION                                                                                                                                                                    AND VOLUNTARILY FOR AND IN BEHALF OF SAID LIMITED LIABILITY COMPANY FOR
                                                                                                         SECTION 24, T3S, R1W, SLB&M
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             24, T3S, R1W, SLB&M                                                                                                                                                               THE PURPOSES THEREIN MENTIONED.
                                                                                                         3" FLAT TOP BRASS (FOUND)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   2.5'' FLAT TOP BRASS (FOUND)
                                                                                                         (SITE BENCHMARK)
  COUNTY SURVEY REVIEWER                              DATE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     MY COMMISSION EXPIRES:________________                     ________________________________
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       A NOTARY PUBLIC COMMISSIONED IN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       UTAH RESIDING IN ____________ COUNTY
                       PREPARED FOR                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 CITY ATTORNEY                                                                                                                                                                                 CITY MAYOR                                                                                                                                                                                                    ENBRIDGE GAS UTAH:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Questar Gas Company dba Enbridge Gas Utah, hereby approves this plat for the purposes of                                                                                                                                                                                                   MY COMMISSION No.______________________                     _________________________________
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           PRINTED FULL NAME OF NOTARY
                OWNER/DEVELOPER
                GARBETT HOMES
                                                                                                  EASEMENT APPROVAL                                                                                                                                      APPROVED AS TO FORM THIS _____ DAY                                                                                            PRESENTED TO DRAPER CITY THIS _____ DAY OF ______________________
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    approximating the location, boundaries, course and dimensions of the rights-of-way and easement grants
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    and existing underground facilities. Nothing herein shall be construed to warrant or verify the precise
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         OF_________________________ A.D., 20_____.                                                                                    A.D., 20_____. AT WHICH TIME THIS SUBDIVISION WAS APPROVED AND
                273 E CAPITOL STREET                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                location of such items. The rights-of-way and easements are subject to numerous restrictions appearing on
                SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH 84103
                (801) 456-2430
                                                                                       ROCKY MOUNTAIN POWER                                                                                                  DATE                                                                                                                                                                      ACCEPTED.                                                                                                                                                                                                    the recorded Right-of-Way and Easement Grant(s). Enbridge Gas Utah also approves this plat for the
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    purpose of confirming that the plat contains public utility easements; however, Enbridge Gas Utah may                                                                                                                                                                                                                          URBANA
                CONTACT: JACOB BALLSTAEDT                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           require additional easements in order to serve this development. This approval does not constitute
                                                                                       COMCAST CABLE CO.                                                                                                     DATE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    LOCATED IN THE SE 1/4 OF SECTION 24, T3S, R1W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ________________________________________                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   abrogation or waiver of any other existing rights, obligations or liabilities including prescriptive rights and                                                                                                                                                                                                        SALT LAKE BASE & MERIDIAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       __________ _________________                                                                                       _______________________________
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         DRAPER CITY ATTORNEY                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       other rights, obligations or liabilities provided by law or equity. This approval does not constitute                                                                                                                                                                                                              DRAPER CITY, SALT LAKE COUNTY, UTAH
                                                                                       LUMEN TECHNOLOGIES                                                                                                    DATE                                                                                                                                                                      ATTEST: DRAPER CITY RECORDER                                                                                       MAYOR, DRAPER CITY                                                                        acceptance, approval or acknowledgment of any terms contained in the plat, including those set forth in
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    the Owners Dedication or the Notes, and does not constitute a guarantee of particular terms or conditions
                       PREPARED BY                                                JORDAN BASIN IMPROVEMENT DISTRICT                                                                                                                                            PLANNING COMMISSION                                                                                                                                             ENGINEER'S CERTIFICATE                                                                                                                                               of natural gas service. For further information contact Enbridge Gas Utah's Right-of-Way Department at                                                                                                                                                                                                           SALT LAKE COUNTY RECORDER
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    800-366-8532.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               APPROVED THIS _____ DAY OF_________________________ A.D.,                                                                                         I HEREBY CERTIFY THAT THIS OFFICE HAS EXAMINED THIS PLAT                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          RECORDED #


            FOCUS                                                                       APPROVED THIS _____ DAY OF_________________________ A.D.,                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   QUESTAR GAS COMPANY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               20_____ BY THE DRAPER CITY PLANNING COMMISSION                                                                                                    AND IT IS CORRECT IN ACCORDANCE WITH INFORMATION ON FILE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          STATE OF UTAH, COUNTY OF SALT LAKE, RECORDED AND FILED AT THE REQUEST OF:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    dba ENBRIDGE GAS UTAH
                                                                                        20_____.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 IN THIS OFFICE.
                                                                 ã                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Approved this ____ DAY OF ____________________ A.D. 20____
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   DATE:                 TIME:                 BOOK:                     PAGE:
           ENGINEERING AND SURVEYING, LLC
             6949 SOUTH HIGH TECH DRIVE SUITE 200                                       __________________________________________________________                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  By:___________________________________________________
               MIDVALE, UT 84047 PH: (801) 352-0075                                                                                                                                                                                            ___________________________________________________________                                                                                       ____________________________________________________                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              $
                       www.focusutah.com                                                DIRECTOR, JORDAN BASIN IMPROVEMENT DISTRICT                                                                                                            CHAIRMAN, DRAPER CITY PLANNING COMMISSION                                                                                                         DATE         DRAPER CITY ENGINEER                                                                                                                                                                  Title:__________________________________________________                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       FEE                                                 SALT LAKE COUNTY DEPUTY RECORDER
            EXHIBIT G
APPROVED DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT
