                                     Development Review Committee
                                         1020 East Pioneer Road
                                           Draper, UT 84020
                                             May 27, 2025

To:                Draper City Planning Commission
                   Business Date: June 12, 2025

From:              Development Review Committee

Prepared By: Todd Taylor, Planner III
             Planning Division
             Community Development Department
             801-576-6510, todd.taylor@draperutah.gov

Re:      City Initiated Seasonal Farm Stand – Text Amendment Request
         Application No.: 2025-0116-TA
         Applicant:          Draper City
         Project Location: City Wide
         Current Zoning: City Wide
         Acreage:            City Wide
         Request:            Request for approval of Text Amendments to Titles 6 and 9 of the
                             Draper City Municipal Code (DCMC) in order to add seasonal farm
                             stand as a new accessory use with associated standards.



BACKGROUND AND SUMMARY

This application is a request for approval of Text Amendments for the purpose of amending
portions of DCMC Titles 6 and 9 to add seasonal farm stand as a new accessory use with its
associated standards.

This proposal is in response to a request of the City Council to City Staff that an amendment
to the text of the DCMC be brought forward to allow for seasonal farms stands. These
seasonal farm stands allow a property owner to sell seasonal produce, cut flowers, bedding
plants, or similar items produced or grown on their property to the public. Additional minor
modifications to other temporary uses for consistency are also included in the proposal.




City Initiated Seasonal Farm Stand                                  App. No. 2025-0116-TA
Text Amendment Request                            1
ANALYSIS

Currently, the DCMC allows produce stands with a temporary use permit in agricultural and
non-residential zones, and farmers’ markets are permitted in certain commercial zones as
well as through a special event permit. The proposed text amendment would add seasonal
farm stands as an allowed accessory use in agricultural and residential-agricultural zones,
keep produce stands as a temporary use in non-residential zones, and remove farmers’
markets since they are already allowed with a special event permit in DCMC Title 15.

The modifications being proposed to the DCMC are listed and reviewed by section in the
report below. The legislative copy of the changes can be found in Exhibit B of this report.
Additions to the text are indicated in blue, deletions in red, and unchanged text in black.

Text Amendments.

DCMC Section 6-16-030: Temporary Uses Allowed: This section outlines uses that are allowed
with a Temporary Use Permit. The proposed text removes farmers’ markets from the list of
temporary uses since they do not go through the temporary use permit process and are
allowed with a special event permit. This section has also been modified to add missing
requirements for some temporary uses including: size limitations to Christmas tree sales
and fireworks stands, and size and temporary structure limitations for temporary retail sales.

DCMC Section 6-16-050: Standards for Temporary Uses: This section outlines the standards
for temporary uses. The proposed text adds language to clarify that the Zoning Administrator
has the authority to provide written interpretations for this chapter.

DCMC Section 9-3-040: Definitions: This section provides definitions, including the definition
of uses. The proposed text deletes the definition for farmers’ market and adds a definition
for seasonal farm stand.

DCMC Section 9-9-030: Uses Allowed: This section describes the uses allowed in agricultural
zones. The proposed text removes produce stands as a permitted accessory use and adds
seasonal farm stand, subject to meeting the applicable development standards.

DCMC Section 9-10-030: Uses Allowed: This section describes the uses allowed in residential
zones. The proposed text adds seasonal farm stand as a permitted accessory use in the RA1
and RA2 zones only, subject to meeting the applicable development standards.

DCMC Section 9-10-040: Development Standards: This section describes the development
standards for residential zones, including accessory structures. The proposed text adds
language referencing the location of the development standards for temporary accessory
structures related to seasonal farm stands.




City Initiated Seasonal Farm Stand                                  App. No. 2025-0116-TA
Text Amendment Request                        2
DCMC Section 9-11-110: Use and Development Standards Tables: This table lists the uses
allowed in commercial zones. The proposed text removes farmers’ markets from the table
of uses since they are already allowed with a special event permit.

DCMC Section 9-14-050: Use Regulations: This section describes the uses allowed in the
Transit Station District (TSD) zone. The proposed text removes farmers’ markets from the list
of uses since they are already allowed with a special event permit.

DCMC Section 9-25-100: Tables and Figures: This table lists the parking standards for
different land uses. The proposed text removes the reference to farmers’ market and
produce stands and replaces them with the text “temporary uses”, which would be consistent
with the adjacent text referenced for this use. This table has also been modified to add a
parking standard requiring two (2) spaces for a seasonal farm stand.

DCMC Section 9-27-250: Seasonal Farm Stand: This section has been added to provide
development standards for seasonal farm stands. The proposed text will limit the amount
of time the seasonal farm stand sales could be conducted on the site, restrict sales to
products produced or grown on-site, require two (2) hard-surfaced parking stalls, allow for
small temporary accessory structures, and allow for temporary signage.

Criteria For Approval.

A Text Amendment is a matter committed to the legislative discretion of the City Council and
is not controlled by any one standard. However, in making a recommendation to the City
Council, the Planning Commission should consider the following factors in DCMC Section 9-
5-060(E)(2):

    2. Text Amendments:
       a. Whether the proposed amendment is consistent with goals, objectives and
          policies of the city's general plan;
       b. Whether a proposed amendment furthers the specific purpose statements of the
          zoning ordinance;
       c. Whether the proposed amendment is appropriate given the context of the
          request and there is sufficient justification for a modification to the zoning
          ordinance;
       d. The proposed amendment will not create a conflict with any other section or part
          of this title or the general plan;
       e. Whether the potential effects of the proposed amendment have been evaluated
          and determined not to be detrimental to public health, safety, or welfare and
          represents an overall community benefit; and
       f. The extent to which a proposed text amendment implements best current,
          professional practices of urban planning, design, and engineering practices




City Initiated Seasonal Farm Stand                                 App. No. 2025-0116-TA
Text Amendment Request                       3
REVIEWS

Planning Division Review. The Draper City Planning Division has completed their review of
the Text Amendment submission. Comments from this division, if any, can be found in
Exhibit A.

Engineering and Public Works Divisions Review. The Draper City Engineering and Public
Works Divisions have completed their reviews of the Text Amendment submission.
Comments from these divisions, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Fire Division Review. The Draper City Fire Marshal has completed his review of the Text
Amendment submission. Comments from this division, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Legal Division Review. The Draper City Attorney has completed his review of the Text
Amendment submission. Comments from this division, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Noticing. Notice has been properly issued in the manner outlined in the City and State Codes.


STAFF RECOMMENDATION

Staff recommends that the Planning Commission review the request, receive public
comment, and make a recommendation to the City Council based on the findings listed
below and the criteria for approval, or denial, as listed within the staff report.



MODEL MOTIONS

Sample Motion for Positive Recommendation – I move that we forward a positive
recommendation to the City Council for the City Initiated Seasonal Farm Stand Text
Amendment, as requested by Draper City, Application No. 2025-0116-TA, based on the
following findings and the criteria for approval as listed in the Staff Report dated May 27,
2025.

Findings for Approval:

    1. The proposed amendment is consistent with goals, objectives and policies of the
       City's General Plan;
    2. The proposed amendment is appropriate given the context of the request and there
       is sufficient justification for a modification to the development codes;
    3. The proposed amendment will not create a conflict with any other section or part of
       the development codes or the General Plan;




City Initiated Seasonal Farm Stand                                 App. No. 2025-0116-TA
Text Amendment Request                       4
    4. The potential effects of the proposed amendment have been evaluated and are
       determined not to be detrimental to public health, safety, or welfare and represents
       an overall community benefit; and
    5. The proposed text amendment implements best current, professional practices of
       urban planning, design, and engineering practices.

Sample Motion for Modified Positive Recommendation – I move that we forward a positive
recommendation to the City Council for the City Initiated Seasonal Farm Stand Text
Amendment, as requested by Draper City, Application No. 2025-0116-TA, based on the
findings and criteria for approval listed in the Staff Report dated May 27, 2025, and as
modified by the following additional recommended modifications or findings:

    1. (List any additional modifications or findings…)

Sample Motion for Negative Recommendation – I move that we forward a negative
recommendation to the City Council for the City Initiated Seasonal Farm Stand Text
Amendment, as requested by Draper City, Application No. 2025-0116-TA, based on the
following findings and the criteria for denial as listed in the Staff Report dated May 27, 2025.

Findings for Denial:

    1. The proposed amendment is not consistent with goals, objectives and policies of the
       City's General Plan;
    2. The proposed amendment is not appropriate given the context of the request and
       there is not sufficient justification for a modification to the development codes;
    3. The proposed amendment could create a conflict with another section or part of the
       development codes or the General Plan; and
    4. The potential effects of the proposed amendment have been determined to be
       detrimental to public health, safety, or welfare or do not represent an overall
       community benefit.
    5. The proposed text amendment is not consistent with best current, professional
       practices of urban planning, design, and engineering practices.




City Initiated Seasonal Farm Stand                                    App. No. 2025-0116-TA
Text Amendment Request                         5
                                          EXHIBIT A
                                     DEPARTMENT REVIEWS

REVIEWS ARE NOT MEANT TO BE AN ALL INCLUSIVE LIST OF POSSIBLE COMMENTS OR
CONDITIONS.



Planning Division Review.

    1. No additional comments received.

Engineering and Public Works Divisions Review.

    1. No additional comments received.

Building Division Review.

    1. No additional comments received.

Fire Division Review.

    1. No additional comments received.

Legal Division Review.

    1. No additional comments received.




City Initiated Seasonal Farm Stand                        App. No. 2025-0116-TA
Text Amendment Request                       7
                                            EXHIBIT B
                                        LEGISLATIVE DRAFT

6-16-030: TEMPORARY USES ALLOWED:
…
B. Uses Listed: The temporary uses listed in this section shall be allowed up to the time
limits specified for each use. Uses not specifically identified by this section shall not be
allowed as temporary uses. Unless otherwise specified in this section, occurrences for
temporary uses shall be determined by the business or individual operating the use.
         1. Auctions with no outside storage may be conducted for up to three (3) days per
         occurrence with no more than four (4) occurrences per year per site. Up to two (2)
         occurrences may run consecutively but shall be counted as separate occurrences.
         Auctions that require outdoor storage will be permitted according to the terms and
         following the issuance of a special event permit.
         2. Christmas tree sales may be conducted for up to sixty (60) days per year and
         shall not occupy an area greater than six thousand (6,000) square feet.
         3. Farmers' markets may be conducted for up to one hundred eighty (180) days per
         year.
         43. Fireworks stands, subject to the provisions of chapter 6 of this title, Utah Code
         Annotated section 53-7-225, as amended, and any necessary additional approvals
         from appropriate fire agencies. Firework stands and associated areas shall not
         occupy an area greater than six thousand (6,000) square feet.
         54. Produce stands may be conducted for up to one hundred eighty (180) days per
         year.
         65. Temporary retail sales, in the form of tent or sidewalk sales events, may be
         conducted for up to up to three (3) consecutive months or thirty (30) days per
         occurrence, with no more than three (3) occurrences per year, subject to the
         following:
                   a. The sale is contained within parking areas associated with and/or the
                   sidewalk, exclusive of public rights of way, adjacent to the permanent
                   business conducting the sale;
                   b. The sale provides adequate pedestrian mobility through all sidewalks and
                   pedestrian walkways; and
                   c. The sale does not create hazards such as limited visibility or other
                   nuisances that could potentially result in accidents or complaints.




City Initiated Seasonal Farm Stand                                       App. No. 2025-0116-TA
Text Amendment Request                             8
         76. Temporary retail sales not directly associated with a permanent business on
         the site may be conducted for up to one hundred eighty (180) days per year, subject
         to the following:
                   a. The sales operation is contained within the parking area of an operating,
                   permanent business;
                   b. The sales operation is conducted with the property owner's permission,
                   including the availability of restroom use by the permanent business for
                   employees and customers of the operation;
                   c. The sales operation is contained within one hundred (100) square feet or
                   less of the parking area lot and shall not occupy an area greater than one
                   thousand (1,000) square feet;
                   d. The sales operation, including all stock and supplies, is completely
                   contained within an temporary, enclosed and, portable structure that is
                   temporarily placed on the site for the time period the business is in
                   operation, and is thereafter removed from the property;
                   e. The sales operation does not prevent or inhibit pedestrian mobility
                   through all sidewalks and pedestrian walkways; and
                   f. The sales operation does not create hazards such as limited visibility or
                   other nuisances that could potentially result in accidents or complaints.
…
6-16-050: STANDARDS FOR TEMPORARY USES:
…
F. Trash Removal: All trash must be collected in trash bins and be removed daily, and the
area used for the temporary use restored to its prior condition within three (3) days of the
temporary use being concluded.
…
6-16-100: Zoning Administrator Interpretation
The Zoning Administrator shall have the authority to interpret this chapter and provide
written interpretations as outlined in 9-4-070 of the code.
…
9-3-040: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this title, the words and phrases defined in this section shall have the following
meanings unless the context clearly indicates a contrary meaning:
…




City Initiated Seasonal Farm Stand                                       App. No. 2025-0116-TA
Text Amendment Request                            9
         FARMERS' MARKET: An area, open or partially enclosed, at which vendors gather for
         limited periods of time to sell agricultural products from booths, stands, or similar
         locations designated for individual vendors.
         …
         ROOFLINE: The highest point on any building where an exterior wall encloses usable
         floor space, including roof areas for housing mechanical equipment and the highest
         point on any parapet wall if the parapet wall extends around the entire perimeter of
         the building.
         SEASONAL FARM STAND: A booth, stall or other area where seasonal produce, cut
         flowers, bedding plants, or similar items produced or grown on the premise are sold
         to the general public.
         SECONDARY ACCESS ENTRANCE: See definition of Access Point.
         …
9-9-030: USES ALLOWED:
…
B. Accessory Uses: The permitted and conditional uses set forth in section 9-9-080, table
9-9-1 of this chapter shall be deemed to include accessory uses and activities that are
necessarily and customarily associated with and incidental and subordinate to such uses.
         …
         3. Accessory uses in agricultural zones shall include, but not be limited to, the
         following:
                   …
                   Produce Seasonal farm stands subject to applicable standards of chapter 27,
                   “Supplementary Development Standards”, of this title.
                   …
9-10-030: USES ALLOWED:
…
B. Accessory Uses: The permitted and conditional uses set forth in section 9-10-090, table
9-10-1 of this chapter shall be deemed to include accessory uses and activities that are
necessarily and customarily associated with and incidental and subordinate to such uses.
         …
         3. Accessory uses in residential zones shall include, but not be limited to, the
         following:
                   …
                   Playhouses, patios, porches, gazebos, and incidental storage buildings.

City Initiated Seasonal Farm Stand                                      App. No. 2025-0116-TA
Text Amendment Request                           10
                   Seasonal farm stands in RA1 and RA2 only, subject to applicable standards of
                   chapter 27, “Supplementary Development Standards”, of this title.
                   Solar energy systems.
                   …

9-10-040: DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS:

Development standards within residential zones shall be as set forth in section 9-10-090,
table 9-10-3 of this chapter, and in this section.
...
B. Temporary Accessory Structures: The standards for temporary accessory structures
related to a seasonal farm stand shall be as set forth in Section 9-27-250.




City Initiated Seasonal Farm Stand                                     App. No. 2025-0116-TA
Text Amendment Request                           11
9-11-110: USE AND DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS TABLES:
TABLE 9-11-1
PERMITTED AND CONDITIONAL USES ALLOWED IN COMMERCIAL ZONES
(Except CSD Zones)

     Uses                                                           Zones

                     CN         CC   CR   CG        CI   CBP   CO1       CO2        O-R     TC   DC   CS   MARF   CBU

 …

 Farmers'             P          P   P    P         NP   NP     P           P        P      P    NP   NP   NP      P
 market

 …

…




City Initiated Seasonal Farm Stand                                  App. No. 2025-0116-TA
Text Amendment Request                         12
9-14-050: USE REGULATIONS:
…
C. Temporary Uses: Any person may sponsor or conduct for profit or nonprofit purposes
the temporary uses set forth in this section, subject to the issuance of a temporary use
permit in accordance with the standards found within title 6, chapter 16 of this Code,
unless under express provision of this chapter no such permit is required:
…
Farmers' market;
…
9-25-100: TABLES AND FIGURES:
TABLE 9-25-1
PARKING REQUIREMENT FORMULAS
 Land Uses                                   Parking Calculation Standards
 …
 Farmers' market, produce stand              Per title 6, chapter 16 of this Code
 Temporary uses
 …
 Restaurant:
     Fast food                               10 spaces per 1,000 square feet gross building
                                             floor area
     General                                 8 spaces per 1,000 square feet gross building
                                             floor area
     Retail                                  2.5 spaces per 1,000 square feet gross
                                             building floor area
 Seasonal farm stand                         2 spaces
 Secondhand or thrift store:
     Large, no outside storage or drop off   2.5 spaces per 1,000 square feet gross
                                             building floor area
     Large, with outside storage or drop     2.5 spaces per 1,000 square feet gross
     off                                     building floor area
     Small                                   2.5 spaces per 1,000 square feet gross
                                             building floor area
 …
9-27-250: SEASONAL FARM STAND:
A. Seasonal farm stands may be conducted for up to one hundred eighty (180) days per
year.
B. Seasonal farm stand sales are limited to produce and products produced or grown on
the premises.
C. Two (2) hard surfaced parking stalls shall be provided on-site for the use of customers
in accordance with chapter 9-25. The parking stalls provided for the use of the customers
of the seasonal farm stand may be located on an existing driveway and in tandem with
parking stalls designed to serve the single-family dwelling.
D. Temporary accessory structures related to the seasonal farm stand may be erected
subject to the following regulations:
       1. Shall be located on the host property;
       2. Shall not be located in a right-of way or vehicular access easement;
       3. May be located in the front yard; however, the temporary accessory structure
       must be removed from the front yard if the seasonal farm stand ceases all
       operations for a period of nine (9) months or longer;
       2. Shall be set back a minimum of five feet (5') from all property lines;
       3. Shall be located at least six feet (6') away from any building;
       4. Shall not exceed one hundred (100) square feet in size;
       5. Shall not exceed twelve feet (12') in height to highest point of the roof; and
       7. Shall not create a visual obstruction within the triangular areas described in 9-
       27-080 of this chapter, pertaining to street intersections and driveways.
E. Temporary Signage: Signage outlined in this section are allowed for seasonal farm
stands and do not require a sign permit or fee:
       1. Wall Signs:

              a. A maximum of one (1) sign shall be allowed on the accessory structure.
              b. The sign shall not exceed twenty four (24) square feet.
              d. No part of the sign shall extend above a roofline.
              e. The sign shall not project from the building wall a distance greater than
       twelve inches (12").
              c. The sign shall not be illuminated.

       2. One (1) A-frame signs when:
       a. Not taller than three feet (3') high;

       b. Not wider three feet (3');

       c. Displayed only during hours of operation of the seasonal farm stand;

       d. Not be placed within any right-of-way;

      e. Not be located on or over any sidewalk or pedestrian walkway or to
obstruct the view of vehicular traffic approaching, at, or leaving any intersection or
driveway; and
       f. Not be illuminated.
