                                  Development Review Committee
                                      1020 East Pioneer Road
                                        Draper, UT 84020
                                                 January 31, 2025

To:              Draper City Planning Commission
                 Business Date: February 13, 2025

From:            Development Review Committee

Prepared By: Nick Whittaker, MCMP, Planner II
             Planning Division
             Community Development Department
             801-576-6522, Nick.Whittaker@draperutah.gov

Re:     Perretta Solutions, LLC. – Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit Request
        Application No.: 2024-0382-USE
        Applicant:         A. Elio Perretta, representing Perretta Solutions, LLC.
        Project Location: 368 E. Cherry Crest Dr.
        Current Zoning: RSD-5-Bellevue (Residential Special District Bellevue) Zone
        Acreage:           0.38 Acres (Approximately 16,552 ft2)
        Request:           Request for approval of a Home Occupation Conditional Use
                           Permit in the RSD-5-Bellevue zone to operate a cottage business
                           that creates 3D printed items.



BACKGROUND AND SUMMARY

This application is a request for approval of a Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit for
approximately 0.38 acres located on the South side of Cherry Crest Dr. at approximately
368 E. Cherry Crest Dr. (Exhibit C). The property is currently zoned RSD-5-Bellevue. The
applicant is requesting that a Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit be approved to
allow for a cottage business that creates 3D printed items.

The subject property is Lot 113 of the Bellevue Phase 1 Subdivision. The Single-Family
Dwelling on the property was built in 2005. The business is operated from a designated
workspace located in a spare bedroom within the basement of the home (Exhibits G & H).



ANALYSIS



«Project_Name»                                                      App. # 2024-0382-USE
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit Request          1
General Plan and Zoning.

 Table 1                   General Plan and Zoning Designations                          Exhibit
 Existing Land Use         Residential Medium Density                                    Exhibit E
 Current Zoning                                                                          Exhibit F
 Adjacent Zoning
    East                   RSD-5-Bellevue
    West                   RSD-5-Bellevue
    North                  RSD-5-Bellevue
    South                  RA2 (Residential Agricultural, 20,000 ft² min. lot size)



The Reidential Medium Density land use designation is characterized as follows:




According to Draper City Municipal Code (DCMC) Section 9-8-020 the purpose of the RSD-5-
Bellvue zone is to “allow for and permit flexibility in terms of planning, site design, lot size
and development through the ability to customize the zoning and development standards




«Project_Name»                                                         App. # 2024-0382-USE
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit Request     2
to achieve unique development opportunity. The Bellevue project seeks to utilize this RSD
zone, which provides the flexibility required to make possible significant project,
community and system improvements and amenities. The Bellevue RSD is located between
13200 South and Corner Canyon Creek, 300 East and the East Jordan Canal.”

Home Occupation. The DCMC Section 9-34-040 outlines development standards applicable
to all home occupations. Those criteria, along with information specific to the subject
request, are as follows:

        A. Ownership: The home occupation shall be owned and operated by a person who
             resides in the dwelling where the home occupation is located. Such person shall
             be the primary provider of the labor, work, or service provided in the home
             occupation.

                 •    The applicant indicates that they live at the subject property and are the
                      primary provider of the service provided by the home occupation (Exhibit
                      H).

        B. Business License: A business license for the home occupation shall be obtained
             from and continually maintained with the city pursuant to title 6, chapter 11 of
             this code.

                 •    The applicant is in the process of obtaining a business license subject to
                      the granting of this Conditional Use Permit.

        C. Employees: Members of the family of the owner who reside in the dwelling may
             be employed in the home occupation. Nonfamily or nonresident employees
             shall be limited to one person.

                 •    The applicant is the only employee of the business (Exhibit H).

        C. Inspection: All facilities shall comply with fire, building, plumbing, electrical and
             all other city, county, state and federal codes. Inspections during reasonable
             hours by city officials may occur as necessary to assure compliance with
             regulations.

                 •    The applicant will comply with all necessary inspections as part of the
                      business licensing process (Exhibit H).

        D. Inventory: No stock in trade, inventory, or other merchandise to exceed two
             hundred fifty (250) square feet shall be kept on the premises. No outside storage
             is allowed.




«Project_Name»                                                       App. # 2024-0382-USE
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit Request    3
                 •    The Applicant indicates that all inventory is confined in the 130 ft² room
                      where business is conducted as illustrated on the floorplan and there will
                      be no outside storage of inventory or materials (Exhibits G & H).

        E. Modification Of Structures Or Yards: There shall be no visible evidence from the
             exterior of a dwelling that it is being used for any other purpose than that of a
             dwelling. No activities shall be carried on outside the dwelling in the yard for the
             benefit of or incidental to the home occupation. No front yard area shall be
             altered to provide parking required for a home occupation.

                 •    The home occupation will not require any modifications to the structure
                      or yard (Exhibit H).

        F. Nuisance: Tools, items, equipment, or activities conducted within the dwelling
             which is offensive or noxious by reason of the emission of odor, smoke, gas,
             vibration, magnetic interference, or noise shall be prohibited.

                 •    The applicant has indicated that the proposed use will not create any of
                      the listed nuisances (Exhibit H).

        G. Secondary Use: The home occupation shall be clearly incidental and secondary
             to the primary use of the dwelling for residential purposes. The home
             occupation shall not disrupt the normal residential character of the
             neighborhood in which the residence is located. Not more than twenty five
             percent (25%) of the dwelling unit shall be used for the home occupation.

                 •    According to the floor plan provided by the applicant, the home
                      occupation utilizes approximately 130 ft² of floor area, or 3.75% of the
                      area of the dwelling unit.

        H. Signs: All signage in a residential area must comply with chapter 26, "Signs", of
           this title.

                 •    The applicant has indicated that there will be no signage for the business
                      on the property (Exhibit H).

        I.   Traffic, Parking, And Access: No home occupation use shall generate pedestrian,
             parking, or vehicular traffic in excess of that customarily associated with the
             zone in which the use is located. All parking shall be provided and maintained on
             site with adequate provision for drop off traffic.




«Project_Name»                                                       App. # 2024-0382-USE
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit Request    4
                 •    The applicant states that the home occupation will not create additional
                      traffic or parking impacts as all sales are done online and are shipped to
                      customers directly. Customers do not come to the home (Exhibit H).

        J.   Vehicles: Other than the business owner's personal transportation, there shall
             be no vehicles or equipment on the property associated with the home
             occupation which would not normally be found at a residence. No signage for
             the home occupation shall be allowed on vehicles.

                 •    There are no business vehicles or business signage on the property. The
                      owners own personal transportation is utilized to deliver shipments to
                      shipping agencies as needed (Exhibit H).

        K. Yards: Yards surrounding the dwelling and accessory buildings shall not be used
             for any activities or storage of any materials associated with the home
             occupation.

                 •    The applicant has indicated that the yards surrounding the dwelling will
                      not be used for the home occupation. The only space utilized for the
                      home occupation is the spare room shown on the floor plan (Exhibits G &
                      H).

        L. Customers: No customers allowed. Children accessing a limited daycare or
           limited preschool facility shall not be considered customers.

                 •    No customers come to the home. All orders are taken online and finished
                      products are shipped directly to the customer (Exhibit H).

        M. Utility Demand: The home occupation shall not cause a demand for public
             utilities in excess of that necessarily and customarily provided for residential
             uses.

                 •    The applicant indicates that they use one (1) 3D printer which utilizes
                      between 50 to 150 watts of power which should not create any undue
                      strain on public utilities (Exhibit H).

        N. Main Structure: The home occupations shall be conducted, located, and
           contained within the primary structure on the property.

                 •    The home occupation is completely located within the primary structure
                      in a room which is illustrated on the floor plan (Exhibit G).




«Project_Name»                                                      App. # 2024-0382-USE
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit Request    5
        O. Single-Family And Multiple-Family Dwellings: Home occupations listed as
             permitted or conditional within this title may be permitted in a single-family or a
             multiple-family dwelling, subject to the standards found within this section and
             section 9-34-060 of this chapter. Businesses within multiple-family dwellings
             shall provide an approval letter from the respective homeowners' association, or
             management company in the case of apartments, if the business proposes any
             employees, customers or business vehicles.

                 •    The business is located in a Single-Family Dwelling. A letter from a HOA or
                      management company is not required.

        P. Licensure: Any home occupation involving childcare shall comply with all
             applicable state and local laws and regulations regarding residential childcare,
             including, but not limited to, provisions of the Utah child care licensing act, as set
             forth in Utah Code Annotated section 26-39-101 et seq., as amended, and the
             residential certificate childcare standards as set forth in the Utah administrative
             code section R430-50-1 et seq., as amended. In addition, cottage food
             production operations are regulated and inspected by the Utah department of
             agriculture. Any food related home occupation under their jurisdiction must
             comply with these regulations.

                 •    The business is not a childcare or cottage food production operation.

The cottage business produces 3D printed items, which do not require a large production
space. Customers place their orders online and the applicant mails the finished product to
the customers. There will be no customers that come to the home. The hours of operation
are based on demand, but will typically be between 7:00 am and 5:00 pm. The applicant is
the only employee. No additional onsite parking is needed for this home occupation as
there are no customers coming to the home, no additional employees, and no business
vehicles.

Staff recognizes that the potential for negative impacts to the neighborhood from this
business are extremely unlikely given the small scale of the business operation. Staff
suggests that future business operations should continue to remain non-impactful to the
neighborhood and suggests that the Planning Commission consider requiring the following
conditions which have also been included in the recommendations section of this report:

    1. Requiring that customers do not come to the property.
    2. Requiring that the business-related production be confined to the designated
       workspace as illustrated on the provided floor plans.




«Project_Name»                                                       App. # 2024-0382-USE
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit Request    6
Conditional Use Permit The criteria for review and potential approval of a conditional use
permit request are found in Section 9-5-080(E) of the DCMC. This section depicts the
standard of review for such requests as:

        E. Approval Standards: The standards of this subsection shall apply to the issuance
            of a conditional use permit:
         1. A conditional use permit may be issued for a use to be located within a zone
            where the particular conditional use is allowed by the use regulations of the
            zone.
         2. Reasonable conditions may be imposed as necessary to substantially mitigate
            reasonably anticipated detrimental effects of the proposed use. These
            conditions may include conditions concerning use, construction, character,
            location, landscaping, screening, parking, hours of operation, and other matters
            relating to the purposes and objectives of this section. Such conditions shall be
            expressly set forth in the motion authorizing the conditional use permit.
         3. If the reasonably anticipated detrimental effects of a proposed conditional use
            cannot be substantially mitigated by the imposition of reasonable conditions to
            achieve compliance with applicable standards, the conditional use may be
            denied.
         4. The following factors shall be reviewed and considered in determining whether a
            conditional use permit application should be approved, approved with
            conditions, or denied because reasonable conditions cannot be imposed to
            achieve compliance with applicable standards:
              a. The harmony and compliance of the proposed use with the objectives and
                 requirements of the city's general plan and this title;
              b. The suitability of the specific property for the proposed use;
              c. Whether the proposed use or facility may be injurious to potential or existing
                 development in the vicinity;
              d. The economic impact of the proposed facility or use on the surrounding
                 area;
              e. The aesthetic impact of the proposed facility or use on the surrounding area;
              f. The safeguards proposed or provided to ensure adequate utilities,
                 transportation access, drainage, parking, loading space, lighting, screening,
                 landscaping, open space, fire protection, and pedestrian and vehicular
                 circulation;
              g. The safeguards provided or proposed to prevent noxious or offensive
                 emissions such as noise, glare, dust, pollutants and odor from the proposed
                 facility or use; and
              h. The impact of the proposed facility or use on the health, safety, and welfare
                 of the city, the area, and persons owning or leasing property in the area.
         5. The planning commission may request additional information as may be
            reasonably needed to determine whether the requirements of this subsection E
            can be met.



«Project_Name»                                                    App. # 2024-0382-USE
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit Request   7
The applicant has provided statements regarding how they believe they comply with
conditional use criteria for approval which are attached as Exhibit H of this report. In the
applicant’s responses they indicate that they believe their request to be in harmony and
compliance with the City’s General Plan and will have no effect on potential or existing
development as it is confined to a single room within the subject dwelling. They indicate
that the business will not impact the economy of the surrounding area as all sales are done
online. The applicant also indicates that there will be no impact to the general aesthetic of
the surrounding area as all production is done within the dwelling and no customers come
to the home. The applicant believes that the residence is already equipped with adequate
utilities and does not require additional parking, transportation access, loading space,
lighting, screening, landscaping, open space, fire protection, or pedestrian and vehicular
circulation. The applicant further states that the business will have no effect on the health,
safety or welfare of the city, the area, or persons owning or leasing property in the area.
Staff principally concurs with the applicant’s statements and believes the application meets
the conditional use criteria found in subsection 9-5-080(E) of the DCMC for approval.



REVIEWS

Planning Division Review. The Draper City Planning Division has completed their review of
the Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit submission. Comments from this division, if
any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Engineering and Public Works Divisions Review. The Draper City Engineering and Public
Works Divisions have completed their reviews of the Home Occupation Conditional Use
Permit submission. Comments from these divisions, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Building Division Review. The Draper City Building Division has completed their review of
the Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit submission. Comments from this division, if
any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Fire Division Review. The Draper City Fire Marshal has completed his review of the Home
Occupation Conditional Use Permit submission. Comments from this division, if any, can
be found in Exhibit A.

Noticing. Notice has been properly issued in the manner outlined in the City and State
Codes.



STAFF RECOMMENDATION

Staff recommends that the Planning Commission review the request based on the findings



«Project_Name»                                                   App. # 2024-0382-USE
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit Request   8
listed below and the criteria for approval, or denial as listed within the staff report. The
Planning Commission should also review the request, hear from the applicant, and receive
public comment prior to making a decision.

If the Planning Commission decides to approve the request, staff recommends they include
the following conditions of approval:

    1. That all requirements of the Draper City Engineering, Public Works, Building,
       Planning, and Fire Divisions shall be satisfied prior to issuance of a business license
       or its renewal.
    2. The applicant shall maintain an active business license for as long as the business is
       in operation from the residence.
    3. No customers shall be permitted to come to the home.
    4. The business-related production of 3D printed items shall be limited to the
       designated workspace as illustrated on the approved floor plan.



MODEL MOTIONS

Sample Motion for Approval – I move that we approve the Home Occupation Conditional
Use Permit, as requested by A. Elio Perretta, representing Perretta Solutions, LLC.
application 2024-0382-USE, based on the findings for approval and subject to the
conditions listed in the Staff Report dated January 31, 2025.

Findings for approval:

        1. The proposal complies with the standards for approval found in DCMC Section 9-
           5-080(E) and potential negative impacts are mitigated through the imposition of
           reasonable conditions.

I move that we approve the Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit, as requested by A.
Elio Perretta, representing Perretta Solutions, LLC. application 2024-0382-USE, based on
the findings for approval and subject to the conditions listed in the Staff Report dated
January 31, 2025, and as modified by the following additional findings and conditions:

        1. (List any additional findings…)
        2. (List any additional conditions…)

Sample Motion for Denial – I move that we deny the Home Occupation Conditional Use
Permit, as requested by A. Elio Perretta, representing Perretta Solutions, LLC. application
2024-0382-USE, based on the findings for denial listed in the Staff Report dated January 31,
2025.




«Project_Name»                                                   App. # 2024-0382-USE
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit Request   9
Findings for denial:

        1. The proposal does not comply with all standards for approval found in DCMC
           Section 9-5-080(E) and potential negative impacts are not able to be sufficiently
           mitigated through the imposition of reasonable conditions.




«Project_Name»                                                   App. # 2024-0382-USE
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit Request   10
                   DEVELOPMENT REVIEW COMMITTEE ACKNOWLEDGEMENT


We, the undersigned, as duly appointed mennbers of the Draper City Development Review
Committee, do acknowledge that the application which provides the subject for this staff
report has been reviewed by the Committee and has been found to be appropriate for
review by the Draper City Planning Commission and/or City Council.

                        Digitally signed by Brien Maxfiold                                                     gjgned by Tobd A
                        DN:C=US,                                                                      Draper
                                                                                                      DM:C=US.
                        Eibfien.maxfield@drapGrulaii.gov,
 Brien Maxfield O-Orapor, OU=Public Works -                                                           Eolbdd.draper^drapcr.ui.us,
                                                                                 Todd A. Draper 0~DraperCtty Planning,
                        Engineoring. CN=Brien Maxfield                                                CN-TpddA. Drapor
                        Date: 202S.02.04 15:32:19-07"00'                                              Oats: 2025 02.04
                                                                                                      U-.OO.SS OJW


Draper City Public Works Department                                          Draper City Planning Division
                                                                                                                                    //
                                                                                                -S'
                          Digitally signed by Don Buckley
                          DM C-US, E-don.bucklHyrO'drapwr.ut.es,

Don Buckley               O-Draper City Fire Doparlraent, OU-Fire Marshal.
                          CN-Oon Buckley
                          Dale- 2Q25 02 04 14-3S:40.07-00'

Draper City Fire Department                                                  Draper City Legal Counsel

                          Di^itatly signed by         $ymes

 Matthew Symes
                          DN, C«US, Earriatt syines^drapDrulah.Qov,
                                      CHy Corp., CN-Maltr>GW Symos
                          Dale: 2025.02.04 14:4$56 07'00’




Draper City Building Division
                                     EXHIBIT A
                                DEPARTMENT REVIEWS

REVIEWS ARE NOT MEANT TO BE AN ALL INCLUSIVE LIST OF POSSIBLE COMMENTS OR
CONDITIONS.



Planning Division Review.

      1.     No additional comments.

Engineering and Public Works Divisions Review.

      1.     The present and future requirements for transportation, traffic, water, sewer,
             and other utilities for the subject site do not appear to be detrimentally
             impacted as described. Given the location and proposed use, the use is not
             anticipated to generate a significant impact to water, sewer, or other
             potential utilities.

      2.     The number of trips generated by the home owner as the applicant and no
             employees and one or two customer(s) visiting the residence will not have a
             detrimental impact to traffic in the area. The applicant indicated no
             customers will visit the site and all products are sent through the mail, none
             sold onsite currently. The capacity of the fronting public street is a local
             residential street that is designed for regular, low volume traffic. It has
             limited capacity to accommodate the traffic generation. Based on the
             description of the traffic generated by the business, the number of trips
             generated by the applicant and potential customers is limited. Based on the
             statements of the applicant about one or two customers, no significant
             impact to traffic is anticipated with the proposed use.

      3.     The applicant indicated that all needed parking is available in the existing
             driveway and garage. The subject home is located on a local residential street
             where on-street parking is currently permitted. All proposed parking should
             be within the garage or driveway. Based on the information from the
             applicant, no significant impact to parking is anticipated with the proposed
             use.

      4.     The proposed use does not appear detrimental to the health, safety, or
             general welfare of the persons residing or working in the vicinity, or injurious
             to the property or improvements in the vicinity.
Building Division Review.

       1.     No additional comments.

Fire Division Review.

       1.     Fire extinguishers required. The extinguisher needs to be a serviceable type
              meaning metal head and metal neck. Extinguishers need to be located in a
              conspicuous location where they will be readily accessible and immediately
              available for use. Placed on every level of the home. If in cabinet or not the
              extinguisher or cabinet needs to be mounted so that the top is not more
              than five (5) feet above the floor.

       2.     Smoke Detectors/Alarms Required. There shall be single station
              interconnected smoke detectors in good working condition on each level
              occupied by the clients. Battery operated smoke detectors shall be,
              permitted if the home demonstrates testing, maintenance, and battery
              replacement to insure continued operation of the smoke detectors.

       3.     Illuminated Exit Signs are going to be required throughout the building.

       4.     Visible Addressing Required. New and existing buildings shall have approved
              address numbers plainly legible and visible from the street fronting the
              property. These numbers shall contrast with their background.

       5.     Extension Cords - Extension cords shall not be a substitute for permanent
              wiring and shall be listed and labeled in accordance with UL 817. Extension
              cords shall not be affixed to structures, extended through walls, ceilings or
              floors, or under doors or floor coverings, nor shall such cords be subject to
              environmental damage or physical impact. Extension cords shall be used
              only with portable appliances. Extension cords marked for indoor use shall
              not be used outdoors.

                •       Application and Use - Extension cords shall be plugged directly into an
                        approved receptacle, relocatable power tap or current tap and, except
                        for approved multiplug extension cords, shall serve only one portable
                        appliance.

                •       Ampacity - The ampacity of the extension cords shall be not less than
                        the rated capacity of the portable appliance supplied by the cord.

                •       Maintenance - Extension cords shall be maintained in good condition
                        without splices, deterioration or damage.
  EXHIBIT B
VICINITY MAP
EXHIBIT C
ARIEL MAP
  EXHIBIT D
LAND USE MAP
 EXHIBIT E
ZONING MAP
EXHIBIT F
SITE PLAN
 EXHIBIT G
FLOOR PLAN
      EXHIBIT H
APPLICANT STATEMENTS
Please explain how you will meet the standards listed below. If it does not apply
explain why (N/A is not a valid response).
9-5-080(E:4) CONDITIONAL USE PERMITS
The following factors shall be reviewed and considered in determining whether a
conditional use permit application should be approved, approved with conditions, or
denied because reasonable conditions cannot be imposed to achieve compliance with
applicable standards:
a. The harmony and compliance of the proposed use with the objectives and
requirements of the city's general plan and this title;
   ●   This business is in compliance with the objectives and requirements of the city’s general plan.


b. The suitability of the specific property for the proposed use;
   ●   This property is where I live and will therefore be the easiest and cheapest way for me to run
       this business.

c. Whether the proposed use or facility may be injurious to potential or existing
development in the vicinity;
   ● This will have no effect on potential or existing development as it is within a room in my home.
d. The economic impact of the proposed facility or use on the surrounding area;
   ●   This will not affect the economy of the surrounding area since it will be online only.

e. The aesthetic impact of the proposed facility or use on the surrounding area;
   ● There will be no aesthetic impact as the printer will be housed in doors.
f. The safeguards proposed or provided to ensure adequate utilities, transportation
access, drainage, parking, loading space, lighting, screening, landscaping, open space,
fire protection, and pedestrian and vehicular circulation;
   ●   The residence is already equipped with adequate facilities for all the above mentioned.
       Adequate utilities exist as this business will not increase the need for any utility. Parking,
       transportation access, loading space, lighting, screening, landscaping, open space, fire
       protection, and pedestrian and vehicular circulation will not be affected by this business.

g. The safeguards provided or proposed to prevent noxious or offensive emissions
such as noise, glare, dust, pollutants and odor from the proposed facility or use;
   ●   PLA does not cause noxious or offensive odors or pollutants. 3D Printers are generally not
       louder than a gaming desktop, so this will not be an issue either.

h. The impact of the proposed facility or use on the health, safety, and welfare of the
city, the area, and persons owning or leasing property in the area.
   ●   This will have no effect on the health, safety, and welfare of the city, the area, and the persons
       owning or leasing properties in the area. The 3D printer required for this business will not
       impact health, safety, or welfare of city or people within it.




Please explain how you will meet the standards listed below. If it does not apply
explain why (N/A is not a valid response). If you do not meet the standard, identify
that and explain how you intend to mitigate the impact.
9-34-040: DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS; PERMITTED USE:
The development standards set forth in this section shall apply to any home occupation
allowed as a permitted use:
A. Ownership: The home occupation shall be owned and operated by a person who
resides in the dwelling where the home occupation is located. Such person shall be the
primary provider of the labor, work, or service provided in the home occupation.
   ●   I live in this home, and I will be the only labor, work, and service provider of my business. I am
       also the owner of my business.

B. Business License: A business license for the home occupation shall be obtained
from and continually maintained with the city pursuant to title 6, chapter 11 of this code.
   ●   I will meet this once I submit all the requested forms to Draper City.

C. Employees: Members of the family of the owner who reside in the dwelling may be
employed in the home occupation. Nonfamily or nonresident employees shall be limited
to one person.
   ●   There will be no employees except for me.

D. Inspection: All facilities shall comply with fire, building, plumbing, electrical and all
other city, county, state and federal codes. Inspections during reasonable hours by city
officials may occur as necessary to assure compliance with regulations.
   ● The residence complies with all fire, building, plumbing, electrical and all other
     city, county, state and federal codes already.
E. Inventory: No stock in trade, inventory, or other merchandise to exceed two hundred
fifty (250) square feet shall be kept on the premises. No outside storage is allowed.
(Ord. 909, 7-21-2009)
   ●   The room in which the printer, filament, product, etc will be stored is 250 square feet or less
       (approximately 136 square feet). There will be no outside storage and everything will be stored
       within its designated area. See floorplan for more detail.
F. Modification Of Structures Or Yards: There shall be no visible evidence from the
exterior of a dwelling that it is being used for any other purpose than that of a dwelling.
No activities shall be carried on outside the dwelling in the yard for the benefit of or
incidental to the home occupation. No front yard area shall be altered to provide parking
required for a home occupation. (Ord. 1132, 2-17-2015)
   ●   There will be no modification to structures or yards.

G. Nuisance: Tools, items, equipment, or activities conducted within the dwelling which
is offensive or noxious by reason of the emission of odor, smoke, gas, vibration,
magnetic interference, or noise shall be prohibited.
   ●   There will not be any offensive or noxious by reason of the emission of odor, smoke, gas,
       vibration, magnetic interference, or noise added to the residence.

H. Secondary Use: The home occupation shall be clearly incidental and secondary to
the primary use of the dwelling for residential purposes. The home occupation shall not
disrupt the normal residential character of the neighborhood in which the residence is
located. Not more than twenty five percent (25%) of the dwelling unit shall be used for
the home occupation.
   ●   The printer and all accessories shall be kept in one single room, and will not interfere with
       residential use of the home. This business will take significantly less than 25% of the dwelling.
       The primary use of the house will still remain residential use.

I. Signs: All signage in a residential area must comply with chapter 26, "Signs", of this
title.
   ●   This business will have no signage.

J. Traffic, Parking, And Access: No home occupation use shall generate pedestrian,
parking, or vehicular traffic in excess of that customarily associated with the zone in
which the use is located. All parking shall be provided and maintained on site with
adequate provision for drop off traffic.
   ●   This business is online only so it will not add to traffic, nor will it require parking. It will not
       generate pedestrian parking either as all items will be shipped to the customer.

K. Vehicles: Other than the business owner's personal transportation, there shall be no
vehicles or equipment on the property associated with the home occupation which
would not normally be found at a residence. No signage for the home occupation shall
be allowed on vehicles.
   ●   This business is online only so it will not require additional vehicles other than my personal
       transportation.

L. Yards: Yards surrounding the dwelling and accessory buildings shall not be used for
any activities or storage of any materials associated with the home occupation.
   ●   This business is online only so it will not affect the yard. The yard will not be used for any activity
       regarding this business.
M. Customers: No customers allowed. Children accessing a limited daycare or limited
preschool facility shall not be considered customers.
   ●   This business is online only so it will not have any physical customers. There will be no
       customers in or near the business or residence as all items will be shipped.

N. Utility Demand: The home occupation shall not cause a demand for public utilities in
excess of that necessarily and customarily provided for residential uses.
   ●   1 3D Printer will not require excessive utilities to be used. A typical 3D printer only uses 50 to
       150 Watts of power. This will fit within the current power supply of the residence.

O. Main Structure: The home occupations shall be conducted, located, and contained
within the primary structure on the property. (Ord. 909, 7-21-2009)
   ● The printer will remain within the designated room at all times. The designated room is within
       the primary structure. See floor plan for more detail.

P. Single-Family And Multiple-Family Dwellings: Home occupations listed as permitted
or conditional within this title may be permitted in a single-family or a multiple-family
dwelling, subject to the standards found within this section and section 9-34-060 of this
chapter. Businesses within multiple-family dwellings shall provide an approval letter
from the respective homeowners' association, or management company in the case of
apartments, if the business proposes any employees, customers or business vehicles.
(Ord. 1132, 2-17-2015)
   ●   This is a single family home which complies with all standards listed in 9-34-060. This business
       will not propose employees, customers, or business vehicles.

Q. Licensure: Any home occupation involving childcare shall comply with all applicable
state and local laws and regulations regarding residential childcare, including, but not
limited to, provisions of the Utah child care licensing act, as set forth in Utah Code
Annotated section 26-39-101 et seq., as amended, and the residential certificate
childcare standards as set forth in the Utah administrative code section R430-50-1 et
seq., as amended. In addition, cottage food production operations are regulated and
inspected by the Utah department of agriculture. Any food related home occupation
under their jurisdiction must comply with these regulations. (Ord. 909, 7-21-2009)
   ●   This does not apply since this business will not involve child care.
