May 22, 2025

Draper City
Attn: Mr. Mike Barker
City Manager
1020 E. Pioneer Road
Draper, Utah 84020
Email: Mike.Barker@draperutah.gov
       Re:     Edge Homes’ Proposed New Community (Kimballs Junction)


Dear Mr. Barker:
In late 2023, Governor Spencer Cox appointed me as his Senior Advisor for Housing Strategy
and Innovation, a new cabinet position dedicated to developing statewide strategies to increase
housing inventory in Utah and combat our state’s housing crisis.
As Governor Cox has repeatedly stated, today’s shortage of housing puts home ownership out of
reach for too many Utahns and presents an “existential threat to Utah’s future.” Increasing the
supply of housing by developing communities with higher densities and lower price points is a
key component of our statewide strategy. At a recent panel titled “Design Solutions to Housing
Affordability in Utah,” at the Kem C. Gardner Policy Institute, experts stressed the importance
of smaller homes, walkability, and higher density housing as key tools to solve our housing
crisis, especially in areas where public transit services are nearby.
As state leaders, however, we cannot solve this problem on our own. We need our local
municipal partners to cooperate by (i) first, recognizing the urgent need to approve new
developments to increase housing supply, and (ii) second, working with developers to approve
rezoning requests and development applications that allow for higher densities in new
communities. We recognize that this can create conflict in communities with those who want
things to remain the same. But what we have found in working with communities across the state
is that there are ways to mitigate the impacts and provide the type of housing that enhances
community character. New projects that provide owner occupancy requirements, rather than
investor acquisitions and rentals, provide benefits to communities and contribute to solving the
state’s housing crisis.
I have reviewed Edge Homes’ proposed new community in Draper known as “Kimballs
Junction” which will be located on approximately twenty (20) acres just west of the TRAX
station on 700 East. It is precisely the kind of project that the State needs and supports for the
following reasons:
           1. It will be a “for-sale” project, rather than an apartment or rental project, thus
              promoting the State’s goals of providing more owner-occupied housing;

           2. The density parameters of 25 to 27 units per acre are reasonable and appropriate
              for a TRAX station area development. We often encourage higher density than
              this in transit-oriented projects;

           3. The housing products (townhomes and condominiums) are more attainable with
              price points that provide a wider range of home ownership opportunities;

           4. The Workforce Housing commitments that Edge Homes has agreed to fulfill in
              the Development Agreement align with the State’s goal of assisting public
              employees, school teachers, and first responders to become home owners instead
              of being priced out of the market. We applaud and support developers who are
              willing to assist this segment of the market realize their dreams of home
              ownership; and

           5. Providing 500 to 540 new housing units in this area will inevitably increase the
              ridership levels of the underutilized TRAX station on 700 East.
For these reasons, we encourage Draper City to approve this project and be an example of how
cities and developers can work together to provide much-needed owner occupied housing in Salt
Lake County. We are grateful for the work that you do and the sacrifice and hours you put in to
make our communities and State a place where our children and grandchildren will want to live.
Please let me know if I can answer any questions or be of further assistance as you review this or
other projects in your community.
                                               Sincerely,




                                               STEVE WALDRIP
                                               SENIOR ADVISOR FOR HOUSING
                                               STRATEGY AND INNOVATION
                                               OFFICE OF GOV. SPENCER J. COX
                                               STATE OF UTAH
                                               801.389.9329
Jennifer Jastremsky

From:
Sent:                             Friday, May 23, 2025 4:33 PM
To:                               Jennifer Jastremsky
Subject:                          [EXT] Deny Edge Homes high density housing


[EXTERNAL SENDER! Only open attachments/links you know are safe.]

The Brunatti Family at                    ask that the Draper Council not allow the Edge Homes high density housing
proposal.

In the Old Draperville area between State Street and 1000 E and from 11800 to 12300 there are more multiple housing
units than anywhere else in Draper. We already have excessive commercial traffic from trax and the local businesses
that now literally surround us. The Lonepeak Hospital, Draper Peaks, Day Dairy, the Post Office, and the Skaggs Complex
with their "3" schools ALL traverse this neighborhood. Getting on to 700 East is nearly impossible during peak rush
hours. Walking is literally dangerous. I have nearly be hit crossing 700 East several times. There's no crosswalks or
caution lights at each street so you risk your life for your health. The Edge Homes addition would add way too much to
what we can barely handle now. Plus, the Colossimo development on 12200 South at 800 East will add even more to our
area. PLEASE DO NOT DO THIS. Promises at council meetings of owner occupied dwellings have always turned in to
rentals after the fact. The Draper Council knows this. It's been happening for 30+ years. As elected public servants you
should protect us You are hurting ALL the a longterm residents and property owners by ruining our quality of life. For
what? $$$

Excessive traffic, transient trespassing, crime, property crime, and violent crime (stabbing in 12200 in my backyard) are
not just a possibility. It's happening here and now. Check the news.

STOP!! DENY ANY MORE MULTI- UNIT DEVELOPMENT IN THIS AREA. DO YOUR JOB.

Thank you.




Sent from my Verizon, Samsung Galaxy smartphone




                                                            1
From:               Joe Colosimo
To:                 Jennifer Jastremsky; Todd Taylor; Todd Draper
Cc:                 Steve Maddox; Paxton Guymon; Tasha Lowery; Galey Colosimo; David Dobbins
Subject:            [EXT] Edge Planning Commission
Date:               Thursday, May 15, 2025 8:55:58 AM




[EXTERNAL SENDER! Only open attachments/links you know are safe.]

Jen
Unfortunately I’m out of town for the May 22 planning commission at which time the Edge Homes application will
be heard for the development on Kimball's Lane.

I wanted to go on the record from Juan Diego.
We appreciate Edge Homes willingness to listen to our following concerns and incorporate them into their design
1. Density 25-27 units per Acre
2. Building heights less than 60 feet
3. Push housing a minimum 50 feet off our common property line
4. For Sale Product
5. Giving our teachers and opportunity to buy an attainable home
6. Disclosures to future buyers that we are a High School and plan development in the field west of the Edge
development.
7. A common fence down our common property line.
8. A stub street into the property the church owns on 118th South.

We are excited to entertain future students that the development brings to the area.

I hope my schedule will allow me to attend the City Council meeting person.

Respectfully
Joe Colosimo
Juan Diego Representative



Sent from my iPhone
Jennifer Jastremsky

From:                              Shelly Karren
Sent:                              Monday, June 2, 2025 8:47 PM
To:                                Jennifer Jastremsky
Subject:                           [EXT] Public Hearing Comment for Kimballs Junction Zoning Map Amendment, etc.


[EXTERNAL SENDER! Only open attachments/links you know are safe.]

To Whom It May Concern,

I am a current resident of Draper in a townhome                         located in the Kimball's Lane Cove across the street
from the proposed Edge Home high density development.

I would like the following comments to be included in the public comment record for this hearing.

During the seven years I have lived in my townhome, I have always known the days of this fruitful field across the street,
of which I have a clear view outside my living room window, would be numbered.

What I did not anticipate was a proposed zoning amendment for high density housing for this area.

This idea seems shortsighted and money-driven, a proposal that will primarily benefit the builder, Edge Homes, and few
others.

Having attended the May 22nd hearing at Draper City Hall and listened to Edge Homes' legal counsel, I have more
questions than answers.

Edge Homes says that the 500 housing units will consist of condos and single family homes. While I appreciate the idea
of home ownership, this doesn't solve the issue of traffic that will assuredly flood the area.

Edge Homes claims that a percentage (less than 10%?) will be subsidized affordable housing. Again, I appreciate the
facade of beneficence, but this does not address the traffic issue.

I wondered repeatedly during Edge Homes' presentation why a traffic study had not been completed prior to the
meeting. It seems a grave oversight in light of this obvious issue. We value safety in our community as well as efficiency
and a 500 unit complex is sure to challenge these values.

I encourage city council members to carefully consider setting a precedent for rezoning in a residential area with limited
road space.

Approving this amendment would set a precedent for other neighborhoods in Draper. And the folks who will likely be
my neighbors will find the high volume of traffic that awaits us all to be equally frustrating. Is there a plan to widen 700
East and Kimball's lane? If not, there will probably be a lot more frustrated constituents coming soon.

Like many of my neighbors mentioned at the previous meeting, I invite anyone with interest in the matter to travel 700
East and Kimballs Lane during rush hour, including the morning hours when school is in session at Juan Diego. For
example, if I don't leave for work before 7:30 a.m., I can expect a lengthy wait at the stop light. If I get caught in
afternoon traffic and frequent Trax crossings, the traffic on 700 East gets backed up a good distance, sometimes as far as
the Harmons on 11400 South.


                                                              1
Please consider this proposal responsibly. Can we prioritize the values of Draper, including open residential properties
on wide swaths of land over the bottom line of a developer who stands to make a whole lot of money? Can we at least
require a traffic study before a decision is made?

The choice is clear: do not approve this zoning amendment without the necessary information of the impact this will
have on current and future residents.

Thank you for your time.

Sincerely,

Shelly Karren




                                                            2
Jennifer Jastremsky

From:                                                marsha mcbride
Sent:                                                Sunday, June 1, 2025 10:35 PM
To:                                                  Jennifer Jastremsky
Subject:                                             [EXT] Kimball's Lane


[EXTERNAL SENDER! Only open attachments/links you know are safe.]

As the city council meeting is approaching concerning the development at Kmball's Lane, I would like to contact you again about my thoughts as a property owner that will be
bordered by the development on two sides. I might ramble but hopefully you, as my elected representative to the city, will feel what is in my soul.


I've lived here 39 years. I came, bought an old existing house and moved in among the hay and vegetable fields. I brought my horses and fowl and small animals. We were able to
ride up 12300 and wave at our frienda in the city. Our neighbors cared and watched out for each other. This was a peaceful place filled with trees and fields.


Towns grow, folks sell off their fields, houses are built. Sometimes city council folks care about their citizens, sometimes their friends, and sometimes the developers. I've seen it all
and I hope you all are among the group that cares about the citizens.


So here is one of the oldest streets in Draper. They sell off the fields and build a school. Then they tear down the horse arena and build a hospital. During that time, they build a trax
station (after two city votes of no) ( interesting). There was a ton of jostling about what to do with the road. The hairpin turn next to the track was deemed unsafe... school and all.
Well, we should put it straight through!! Right over the track. The draper raceway just got a vote for lifting air over the track. The railroad wouldn't have it. Two road crossings too
close. We should dead end it!! No, won't work with the hospital access. So they created the intersection we have. Bought out the back half of two properties...destroying some
dreams....widened and pushed the road west using a greater curve. Putting an access sidewalk on the east/north side of the road, which is the safest place to have it, as the line of
sight for crossing the road on the curves is nil creating a seriously unsafe crossing opportunity.


So now the fields again are up for sale. Edge wants to put 500+ units there. I've been in close contact with both Steve and Paxton. I understand their goals. I understand their costs. I
understand what they will reap. They say they care.....but i dont really know.


I do know I will lose the peace and quiet that I have left. Oh! You should have felt it before Cranberry and the subdivisions to the south and the losing the dairy and the pig farm and
all the apartments that have been built in this one mile radius and Juan Diego and the hospital and the trax. It was glorious! I could see stars and almost hear them. The ibis would
rest on their migration in the irrigated fields. This was a glorious place.
I know I will again have to deal with more artifical night light. Could they please install dark sky lighting?


There are still a few glorious sights. The hawks yearly nest in the trees. Ducks and geese nest in the area. Great blue herons fly by and rest in the trees. Deer and fox find places to rest
and live.



I've read a great deal lately about many cities in the United States that are spending millions of dollars to create and restore wildlife lands. Sandy just finished one by Grandpa's
pond. They do it for the wildlife, for the clean air it produces, and for areas for citizens to reconnect with nature and restore personal peace. It is happening in Utah through the Utah
Nature Concervancy among other foundations.


Here, in Draper, on Kimball's Lane we already have a wild space. Migrating birds nest here every year. There are deer and other wild animals that make this area their home. The
space has a great potentlal to add value to the edge homes development. With your support as a city we can be creative and unique and ahead of the game of wildlife conservation
and beautiful lands.


Edge has hinted they want to cover the stream and pipe it. What a disaster that would be!!! All wildlife and plant life would die. If they want a nature walk, please leave the nature
natural.



Review:
The road has seriously been reworked to the satisfaction of the state and railroad. An extra 2000 cars on the road will be more than challenging and less safe.


Crossing Kimballs lane on the curve is dangerous.
There is still serious speeding on this road.
A traffic study done right now will be incorrect as school is not in session.


Saving the wild area is beneficial to the city, to edge homes and to the community, covering the canal will cause death to the entire area and putting a "nature walk" on it covered is a
sham....kill everything, plant a few bushes and call it nature. A nature walk is a great idea if the existing nature is protected.


Reduce the number of units.


Install dark sky lighting.


Thank you for your time.


Marsha McBride *
                                                                                             1
Jennifer Jastremsky

From:                              JD Rex
Sent:                              Tuesday, June 3, 2025 12:18 PM
To:                                Jennifer Jastremsky
Subject:                           [EXT] Notice of public hearing for Kimball’s Junction zoning map amendment


[EXTERNAL SENDER! Only open attachments/links you know are safe.]

Has a traffic study been done??

I can’t imagine that anybody who has turned left onto 700 east from Kimball’s Lane could possibly think that this is a
good idea. It feels like roughly half the time I drive that direction the arms on the train crossing are down.

My question is has a traffic study been done? Because with the train and the light at that intersection, it’s not
uncommon to sit there for five or 10 minutes as is now. I live in a house at                              draper utah.
Which would be highly impacted by the increased traffic in that area.

If you add 500-1000 more cars coming in and out of that high density small plot of land then I’m afraid the traffic
especially during rush-hour or times when Juan Diego schools are letting out would be impossible to navigate.

JD Rex




                                                             1
Jennifer Jastremsky

From:                          Scorzato, Kelly
Sent:                          Wednesday, May 21, 2025 10:44 PM
To:                            Jennifer Jastremsky; Planning; Community Development
Cc:
Subject:                       [EXT] DENY: High Density Housing - Zone Change 20 acres of land: RA 1 and RA2 to
                               RM2 (Apartments/27 + units per acre=540 units?).

Importance:                    High


[EXTERNAL SENDER! Only open attachments/links you know are safe.]

RE: DENY: High Density Housing - Zone Change 20 acres of land: RA 1 and RA2 to RM2 (Apartments/27 + units
per acre=540 units?). Traﬃc will be unsafe on Kimball Lane (only access to those 20 acres)

Please print out and give hard copies to each Planning Commi;ee member. I would also like my response to
be read out loud – and included in the mee>ng notes. A concerned/loyal Draper Ci>zen – who knows the
Draper Planning Commi;ee will do the right thing!

Important Point:
   • Just because there is a TRAX stop at Kimball Lane/Soring Eagles Drive – does not give the developer the
      right to change zoning from residential to RM2/27 units per acre.
   • We must remember – the Draper City of goal is to protect and maintain a lifestyle valued by the
      community! (not more transients from apts – don’t care how exclusive developers say their apts are –
      we NEED more single family homes!!)
   • There are already (more than enough) RM2 zones apartments near this TRAX stop – another one which
      disrupts the community is NOT needed.
   • The proposed zoning change is not consistent with goals, objectives, and policies of the city's general
      plan.
   • The proposed zoning change is not harmonious with the overall character of existing development in
      neighboring vicinity. (local property owners do NOT want RM2 zoning
   • The proposed zoning will adversely affect adjacent property.
   • Recommend to developer: he can buy property West of 1-15/near the old Prison Property for his RM2
      housing development – which is more inline with Draper City goals
   • Draper City/Utah has a shortage of single-family homes – NOT RM2/27 units per acre. We have more
      than needed/surplus of RM2/27 units per acre/apartments – but lack single family homes
Recommendations:
Please "DENY" this high density housing zone change –
    • We do not need more high density housing next to our schools, churches, and neighborhoods. (put
       RM2 in Draper West of I-15)
    • We are already surrounded by it- The Parc at Day Dairy, Draper Village, Draper Peaks, The Cove,
       Heritage at Draper, besides all the others residential/high-density that have been approved for Wasatch
       Residential, Boyer and Gardner Group, Wasatch Residential Group


                                                       1
   •   The traffic on Kimball Lane is busy all day long. Worse when JD Campus School starts and ends. The 20
       acre development has only 1 access – that is on Kimball Lane
   •   It will make it dangerous for the bordering neighborhood streets filled with children and animals.
There needs to be an emphasis on more " RA 1 and RA2 single family residen>al development" and less on
RM2/apartments/high-density housing.
   • RM2/apartments/high-density housing isn’t the answer for every piece of ground in Draper. Especially
       near a big school campus and many residential subdivisions.
   • This area already has too many apartments/high density housing in the surrounding areas – it cannot
       safely handle more.
   •   SECTION 8 HOUSING:. If these apartments are not fully rented – they can easily be changed to
       section 8 housing. A development at 13800 South has been unsuccessful and is now being leased by
       the Utah Center for Affordable Housing (section 8 housing.) Section 8 housing results increased in
       crime and will bring a transient population to the neighborhood (I have already seen homeless people
       wondering from the .)

The planning commi;ee must "DENY" this zoning change, as they care about Draper City's importance of
protec>ng and maintaining a lifestyle valued by the community!
   • The proposed zoning change not consistent with goals, objectives, and policies of the city's general
       plan.
   • The proposed zoning change is not harmonious with the overall character of existing development in
       neighboring vicinity
   • The proposed zoning will adversely affect adjacent property.
Regards,
Kelly Scorzato

Draper, UT 84020




                                                     2
Jennifer Jastremsky

From:                             Benjamin Sila M.
Sent:                             Thursday, May 22, 2025 8:32 PM
To:                               Planning
Subject:                          [EXT] Opposition Report: High-Density Development at 600 E Kimballs Lane, Draper


[EXTERNAL SENDER! Only open attachments/links you know are safe.]

Background and Proposal Details

A development application has been submitted by Edge Homes (via representative Mike Winters) for a high-density residential project on approximately 20
acres at ~600 East Kimballs Lane, Draper. The proposal (applications 2025-0092-MA, 2025-0091-MA, 2025-0090-DA) seeks multiple approvals:

    •   Zoning Map Amendment: Change the zoning from RA1 and RA2 (Residential Agricultural 1-acre and 1/2-acre minimums) to RM2 (Multiple-Family
        Residential)draperutah.gov.
    •   Land Use Map Amendment: Change the Draper General Plan designation from Residential Low/Medium Density to Residential High
        Densitydraperutah.gov.
    •   Development Agreement: A contractual agreement to set a specific density range on the property of 25–27 dwelling units per acre, exceeding the
        normal RM2 density limitsdraperutah.gov.

No specific site plan is being approved at this stage – the request is purely for entitlements (rezoning and land use change, accompanied by a development
agreement for increased density)draperutah.gov. The project is referred to by the applicant as “Kimballs Junction.” A public hearing before the Draper Planning
Commission is scheduled for May 22, 2025 to consider this proposal.

This report provides an updated analysis opposing the proposed high-density rezoning, incorporating new details about the application. Key considerations
include zoning comparisons (RA1/RA2 vs RM2), the role of a development agreement, traffic and safety impacts, precedent cases in Draper, potential for Section
8 (low-income) housing conversion, and consistency with Draper’s General Plan and neighborhood compatibility standards.


Zoning Comparison: RA1, RA2 vs. RM2
To understand the magnitude of the proposed change, it is important to compare the existing RA1/RA2 zoning with the requested RM2 zoning in terms of
allowed density, housing types, building height, lot sizes, and setbacks. The table below summarizes key differences:




                                                                               1
                                               Min. Lot
   Zone                Typical Uses                              Max. Base Density             Max. Building Height          Setbacks (Front / Rear / Side)
                                                 Size
RA1                                           40,000
             Large-lot single-family detached                                             35                             ~30′ front, 20′ rear, 12′ side (typical
(Residential                                  sq. ft.    ~1 dwelling
             homes; limited animals                                                       feetdraper.novusagenda.com minimums in RA
Agricultural                                  (≈0.92     unit/acredraper.novusagenda.com
             (semirural lifestyle)                                                        (≈2-3 stories)                 zones)codelibrary.amlegal.com
1)                                            acre)
RA2                                           20,000
             Large-lot single-family homes;                                                                              ~30′ front, 20′ rear, 12′ side (slightly
(Residential                                  sq. ft.    ~2 dwelling                      35
             semirural residential (some                                                                                 reduced from
Agricultural                                  (≈0.46     units/acredraper.novusagenda.com feetdraper.novusagenda.com
             animals allowed)                                                                                            RA1)codelibrary.amlegal.com
2)                                            acre)
                                              N/A (no
RM2          Multi-family residences:         individual 12 units/acre base allowed by    35 feet (by                    Determined by site plan/ buffering
(Residential apartments, townhomes, twin lot; 1-         codedraper.novusagenda.com       code)draper.novusagenda.com requirements (code notes RM
Multi-       homes, condos (high              acre       (25–27 units/acre requested via  *(Height increases possible by setbacks must ensure
Family 2) density)codelibrary.amlegal.com project dev. agreement)                         agreement)                     compatibilitycodelibrary.amlegal.com)
                                              min.)

RA1 and RA2 zones are low-density residential districts intended to “foster low density development with little impact on surroundings” and to preserve
Draper’s “semirural” charactercodelibrary.amlegal.com. They promote large lot family life with predominately detached single-family homes and even allow
keeping of limited livestock or fowl, reflecting a rural-residential feelcodelibrary.amlegal.com. RA1 requires roughly one-acre lots (40,000 sq.ft. minimum) per
home, while RA2 allows about half-acre lots (20,000 sq.ft.)draper.novusagenda.com. In practical terms, RA1 yields ~1 home/acre and RA2 ~2 homes/acre under
current zoningdraper.novusagenda.com. Building heights in these zones are capped at 35 feet (about a 2-story house with attic), and setbacks are generous
(front yards ~30 feet, etc.), providing open space around each home. The RA zones are designed to protect the stability and open character of existing
neighborhoods – for example, RA homes are buffered from commercial or industrial encroachment by not allowing such uses in the
zonecodelibrary.amlegal.com.

In contrast, RM2 is a high-density residential zone meant for compact housing types like apartments, condos, townhomes, and twin homes. Its purpose is to
permit well-designed multi-family developments at “relatively high densities” that are “appropriately buffered from and compatible with” surrounding land
usescodelibrary.amlegal.com. Under Draper’s standard zoning code, RM2 projects are limited to about 12 dwelling units per acre (roughly 2.5 to 3 times the
density of a typical suburban single-family zone)draper.novusagenda.com. This base density equates to roughly an R-8 to R-12 zone in many cities (8–12
units/acre). The applicant, however, is seeking a density of 25–27 units/acre, more than double the normal maximum, by using a Development Agreement
(discussed below) to override the standard zoning limitdraperutah.gov. A density of ~27 units/acre approaches an urban apartment complex scale (for example,
a 4-story building with surface parking can be around 25 units/acre).

Other development standards also differ markedly:




                                                                                2
    •   Housing Form: RA1/RA2 strictly allow detached single-family homes. RM2 allows multi-family buildings – i.e., structures containing many dwelling units.
        Apartments or townhome rows would be permitted in RM2, fundamentally changing the built form from houses on large lots to clustered units on a
        shared parcel.
    •   Open Space: RA zones, by virtue of large lots and low coverage (max ~40% lot coverage)draper.novusagenda.com, maintain considerable open
        space/yard area. Multi-family RM2 projects can cover much more of the land with buildings and parking (open space comes mainly from common
        landscaped areas or setbacks negotiated in the site plan).
    •   Setbacks/Buffering: RA1/RA2 homes are set far back from roads and property lines, preserving privacy and a green, open feel. In RM2, the code does
        not fix large setback distances in the same way; instead, buffering of high-density projects is handled through the site plan/design process to ensure
        compatibilitycodelibrary.amlegal.com. However, typical front setbacks for multi-family in Draper can be much smaller (e.g. 20 feet or less) if carefully
        designed. Without substantial buffers, an RM2 project could loom very close to adjacent single-family properties.
    •   Height: All residential zones in Draper have a base height limit of 35 feet for the main buildingdraper.novusagenda.com. In theory, this height limit still
        applies in RM2, meaning buildings of ~2 or 3 stories. However, with a development agreement, developers sometimes negotiate for additional height or
        different building configurations. Even at 35 feet, a multi-family structure (with flat roofs and possibly built on a slight grade) can appear more imposing
        than a 35′ tall single-family home, due to longer continuous façade lengths and minimal spacing between buildings compared to large-lot homes.

In summary, the existing RA1/RA2 zoning allows only low-density, single-family estate-style development in harmony with the area’s current character. The
proposed RM2 zone (with a development agreement for 25+ units/acre) would introduce a much more intense development – effectively a large apartment or
townhome complex – in a setting that today consists of schools, churches, and single-family neighborhoods. The differences in allowed density (from 1–2
units/acre up to 25+ units/acre) and housing type (one home per lot vs. potentially hundreds of units on one site) are stark. This dramatic upzoning would set a
new precedent for residential intensity in the immediate area.


Development Agreement: Purpose and Legal Function
A Development Agreement is a specialized tool in Draper City’s land use process that allows the city and a developer to enter into a contractual agreement
specifying customized development standards, densities, or other conditions for a particular project. Utah state law permits such agreements as a way to give
both parties certainty and to tailor large or unique projects, as long as they are approved through the proper legislative process. In Draper:

    •   Purpose: A development agreement may include “any term that the City considers necessary” related to the development, such as master plan details,
        density bonuses/transfers, affordable housing provisions, infrastructure commitments, special design standards,
        etc.codelibrary.amlegal.comcodelibrary.amlegal.com. The intent is to negotiate project-specific conditions that go beyond what the base zoning code
        would normally allow or require, in exchange for benefits or assurances that the developer provides to the city (e.g. higher quality design, open space,
        infrastructure improvements).
    •   Legislative Approval: Importantly, a development agreement cannot unilaterally override zoning rules unless it is formally approved by the City
        Council through the same process as a zoning ordinance changecodelibrary.amlegal.com. This means the agreement is reviewed by the Planning
        Commission and subject to a public hearing, and then voted on by the City Council, just like a rezone. The law explicitly states that a development
        agreement may not contain terms conflicting with the land use code “unless the city council approves the development agreement in accordance with
        the same procedures for enacting a land use regulation”codelibrary.amlegal.com. In short, it’s a contract zone – a site-specific law crafted for the
        project.
                                                                                 3
    •   Recordation and Binding Nature: Once approved, the agreement is recorded against the property and runs with the land, binding future owners to its
        termscodelibrary.amlegal.com. It typically enumerates the allowed uses, densities, building heights, site plan configuration, amenities, timing, and any
        developer contributions or public benefitscodelibrary.amlegal.comcodelibrary.amlegal.com. For example, a development agreement might lock in a
        maximum of X units, specific architectural styles or materials, required open space or park land dedication, etc., that the developer must adhere to
        beyond normal code requirements.
    •   Flexibility vs. Limitations: The development agreement gives the developer certainty that if they meet the terms, they can proceed even if underlying
        zoning regulations would otherwise change. Conversely, it gives the city leverage to ensure public concerns are mitigated. However, it cannot be used to
        obligate the city to future zoning changes or to surrender the city’s general police powerscodelibrary.amlegal.com. Draper cannot force a developer to
        use a development agreement; it is typically required by the city only when an applicant seeks a legislative change (like a rezone) with specific
        deviations or commitmentscodelibrary.amlegal.com. In this case, the applicant is volunteering a development agreement as part of the rezone, likely to
        specify the 25–27 du/acre density and perhaps other details of the future project.

In the Kimballs Lane proposal, the development agreement is the mechanism by which Edge Homes is asking for extra density (25–27 units/acre) beyond the
normal RM2 limitdraperutah.gov. The agreement would presumably also outline any conditions or public benefits offered in exchange for this upzoning. For
example, the city could negotiate things like enhanced landscaping buffers, architectural quality, traffic improvements, or a cap on the total number of units. The
legal function of this agreement is essentially to create a customized “RM2-plus” zone for this 20-acre site, with specified rules. It is a powerful tool – once in
place, it vests the developer with rights to build at that higher intensity (as long as they follow the agreement), even if such density would normally not be
permitted. Because of this, development agreements in Draper are used cautiously, typically on large projects where the city wants to exact certain guarantees.
Here, the public should scrutinize the terms: What is the city getting in return for allowing more than double the usual density? And does the agreement truly
mitigate the impacts of that density on the community?


Traffic and Access Impacts
One of the most critical concerns with placing a high-density development on Kimballs Lane is the traffic impact, especially given the limited access and the
context of the surrounding community. The site in question has only a single point of access (Kimballs Lane itself) connecting to the broader road network,
rather than multiple ingress/egress points. This raises significant issues:

    •   Volume of Traffic: A development at 25–27 units/acre on ~20 acres could entail around 500 dwelling units (for example, 20 acres × 25 = 500 units). Even
        a somewhat smaller unit count would generate a substantial number of vehicle trips. Standard traffic engineering rates indicate that an apartment unit
        generates roughly 6–8 trips per day on average. Hundreds of units could thus produce several thousand car trips daily on Kimballs Lane, a road that
        today likely handles only a fraction of that. Peak hours (morning and evening rush) would see intense clustering of trips as residents leave for work or
        school and return home. This surge in traffic could easily overwhelm a small two-lane road and its intersections.
    •   Single Access and Safety: Having so many residences served by a single road is not only a congestion concern but also a safety hazard. Emergency
        access is a key issue – if Kimballs Lane were blocked by an accident, road damage, or a fire/police incident, hundreds of people could be trapped or cut
        off. In fact, Draper City Code limits the number of homes on a dead-end or single-access street for this very reason. Under current standards, “dead end
        streets or subdivisions with one access point shall serve no more than thirty (30) single-family… units, or up to one hundred (100) multi-family
        units”codelibrary.amlegal.com. In other words, beyond 100 multi-family units you must provide a secondary access for safety. The proposed project far
        exceeds these thresholds. Unless the developer can create a new roadway connection (which is uncertain given the area’s built-out nature and possibly
                                                                                 4
        geographic constraints), the project violates the spirit of Draper’s own safety standards. Granting an exception would put future residents at risk and
        burden emergency services. For instance, a fire apparatus needs two ways in/out when responding to large complexes – even if the code exception were
        somehow granted, the Fire Marshal would likely insist on significant mitigations (like heavy-duty turnarounds, which still don’t solve external road
        blockage issues).
    •   Proximity to Juan Diego School Campus: Kimballs Lane is adjacent to the Skaggs Catholic Center (Juan Diego High School, middle school, and
        elementary) on 300 East, and near at least one church (the campus includes a large Catholic church), as well as other local churches and neighborhoods.
        School traffic already defines the peak use on these roads – mornings and mid-afternoon when school begins and lets out, Kimballs Lane and 300 East
        see heavy traffic spikes from parents, teenage drivers, and school buses. The presence of a family-oriented community means many young drivers and
        children are on or near the streets. Injecting the daily traffic of a large apartment community could greatly exacerbate congestion during those peak
        times. Residents can expect longer delays and backups as hundreds of additional cars converge with school traffic at the start and end of the day.
        Furthermore, the mixing of high-volume apartment traffic with school pedestrians is a safety red flag. There are likely students walking or biking in the
        area (or crossing Kimballs Lane to reach the school or nearby parks). More traffic increases the probability of accidents, unless significant pedestrian
        infrastructure and traffic calming is implemented.
    •   Intersection and Road Capacity: Kimballs Lane connects to 700 East (SR-71) near the UTA TRAX station. The intersection at 700 East is a critical junction.
        A sudden influx of cars trying to turn onto 700 E or off of it to Kimballs Ln can lead to queuing on the state road (700 E) and increased likelihood of
        accidents. If drivers experience delays or difficulty turning, they may also seek alternate routes through residential streets, spreading the traffic impact
        beyond just Kimballs Lane. Without a professional traffic impact study, the full extent is unknown, but intuitively the road infrastructure seems ill-suited
        for a high-density project in what is currently a low-density area.
    •   Recent Traffic Incidents/Concerns: There is already evidence that the area has some public safety concerns. For example, Draper Police recently
        reported an assault incident involving a victim who “left the Kimballs Lane TRAX Station” late at nightfacebook.com. This indicates that the station and
        its vicinity may have periodic issues with crime or safety at current usage levels. A large development would keep the area active 24/7 and could
        potentially increase calls for service (traffic accidents, police calls, etc.). It underscores the need for robust planning – adequate street lighting, traffic
        controls, and possibly increased police presence – if density is increased. With only one way in or out, any incident on the road (an accident, a stalled
        vehicle, police activity) would not only pose safety issues but could gridlock the entire apartment community.

In summary, from a traffic engineering and public safety standpoint, the proposal is highly problematic. It defies Draper’s standard practice of requiring two or
more access points for large developmentscodelibrary.amlegal.com. It would funnel orders of magnitude more traffic onto Kimballs Lane, a road not designed
for heavy throughput. And it would do so in a location where that traffic directly conflicts with school drop-off patterns and residential street activity. The likely
outcomes include: significantly longer travel times, increased accident risk, difficulty for emergency services, and a general deterioration of the quiet
neighborhood character as the street effectively becomes a busy apartment access road. Mitigating these issues (through road widening, new roads, signals,
etc.) would be expensive and possibly infeasible given built conditions – meaning the problems might remain permanent if the project is built as proposed.


Property Value Trends Near High-Density Complexes in Draper
Residents often worry that large apartment complexes will lower nearby home values. Recent research suggests mixed outcomes: A University of Utah study of
Salt Lake County (2010–2019) found that homes within 0.5 mile of new apartment buildings appreciated slightly faster on average (about +10% per year) than
those farther away (+8.6%) . However, Draper’s area was an exception – in the southeastern suburbs (which include Draper), home values farther from new


                                                                                  5
apartments appreciated slightly faster than those near high-density developments . This indicates that in Draper’s case, proximity to apartments did not boost
home values and may have corresponded with marginally slower growth.

Local anecdotal evidence underscores resident concerns. When Draper’s first big apartment projects were proposed in the 1990s, neighbors feared value loss:
“It will destroy our home value… People don’t move out to Draper to live by apartments,” said one resident regarding a planned 152-unit complex at 11800 S
back in 1995 . While that complex (now Heritage at Draper) was eventually built, single-family homes in Draper remain high-value. What the data suggests is that
well-maintained apartments alone have not caused drastic drops in adjacent home prices, but in Draper’s case they also haven’t particularly increased them. In
sum, nearby property values have continued to rise overall, though Draper-specific data shows they rose a bit more slowly near high-density projects than
further away . Homeowners can factually note that the only regional submarket showing slower appreciation next to new apartments was Draper’s – supporting
concerns that high-density housing might slightly dampen local property value growth (even if not causing outright declines).


Similar Rezoning Cases in Draper: Precedents and Outcomes
High-density rezones in established Draper neighborhoods have been controversial, and the city’s track record shows a pattern of cautious or unfavorable
receptions to such proposals, especially when not aligned with the General Plan or community expectations. A few relevant cases:

    •   “Fitzgerald Farm” (Draper City Civic Center area, 2021–2022): A local example involved a 27-acre parcel of historic farm land located south of the
        Draper City Hall and library (in the older part of Draper). The property, surrounded by established half-acre and one-acre single-family lots, was eyed by
        a developer (The Boyer Company) for a rezoning to allow around 11 units per acre (likely an RM2-type townhome development)change.org. This
        represented a jump from rural residential to high density. The proposal met significant pushback from residents who wanted to “Save Historic Draper”
        and prevent an incompatible high-density enclave. Boyer ultimately withdrew the application at the last minutechange.org. Notably, opponents were
        concerned that approving 11 du/ac there would set a precedent for other farmland patches to all become high-density. They emphasized preserving
        the “historic, rural, small town feel” of that areachange.org. In that case, the developer hinted at taking the fight to the state legislature, hoping for a law
        that would force cities to allow higher densities near transitchange.orgchange.org. In fact, residents reported that the developer suggested legislation
        could mandate “50 units/acre within a mile of a transit station”, which would have allowed 1350 units on that 27-acre farm instead of the 111 units
        initially proposedchange.org. This Boyer case underscores Draper’s reluctance to upzone to high density in areas not already planned for it – the mere
        prospect of 11 units/acre triggered such resistance that the developer backed off (while seeking other avenues). By comparison, the Kimballs Lane
        project asks for 25+ units/acre, which is more than double the density that proved too controversial in the farm case.
    •   Council Rejection of High Density in West Draper (2024): In early 2024, the Draper City Council took action to downzone a 10-acre property in order to
        explicitly prevent future high-density development on it. The property (owned by a school district and under consideration for purchase by the city) was
        adjacent to low-density neighborhoods. Citing the “current threat to local zoning and land use authority from the State”, Council members expressed
        that if the City didn’t “act prudently,” the site “could end up being developed with something denser and less desirable” under outside
        pressuredraper.granicus.com. By approving a rezone to a very low density and indicating intent for a public use (a new cemetery and/or park), the
        Council sent a message that “residents in the area would know the City did not plan to develop [it] with higher density”draper.granicus.com. The vote
        was unanimous to rezone in favor of large lots/civic usedraper.granicus.com. This case shows the Council’s sensitivity to neighborhood compatibility –
        they acted to ensure a transition that neighbors felt comfortable with, rather than leaving the door open to high density. Essentially, Draper’s
        policymakers sided with preserving community character over densification in that instance.


                                                                                   6
    •   Transit Station Areas – Planned Higher Density with Conditions: Draper has, in some circumstances, approved high-density residential projects, but
        these have typically been in areas specifically planned for it (such as near transit stations or in mixed-use centers) and often with careful conditions. For
        example, around the Draper Town Center TRAX station at 12300 S, a couple of multi-family developments have been allowed (e.g. transit-oriented
        apartments near City Hall). Those were consistent with the General Plan’s vision for the town center and had infrastructure to support them. Even so,
        densities have generally been kept in the range of the RM2 maximum (approximately 12 units/acre or slightly above when mixed-use is involved).
        Another example is the Vista Station area near the FrontRunner commuter rail (west Draper, near 13490 S), where multi-story apartments were built,
        but that area was master-planned as a high-density employment and residential center from the outset. In each of these cases, the high-density zoning
        did not intrude into an established single-family neighborhood without buffers; instead, they are located near major transit or commercial corridors,
        often separated from lower-density housing by roads, parks, or commercial uses. Additionally, conditions were imposed – such as traffic improvements,
        design standards, and sometimes phased construction – to ensure the projects were successful and didn’t negatively impact neighbors.
    •   Planning Commission/City Council Tendencies: When high-density rezones come forward, Draper’s Planning Commission and Council have shown a
        pattern of either denying them or scaling them back if they conflict with the General Plan or neighborhood compatibility. Even when approvals are
        given, it’s often with a reduction in requested density or additional buffering conditions. Residents’ voices carry weight – public hearings often see
        significant turnout opposing drastic density increases, and city officials have responded by adhering closely to the city’s planned land use map. In the
        rare cases where a deviation is granted, it tends to be because the developer demonstrated a clear community benefit or mitigation (for instance,
        integrating some owner-occupied units, contributing to infrastructure, or providing affordable housing commitments).

In the case of 600 E Kimballs Lane, the proposal is clearly at odds with past practices for similar situations. The area is not designated in the current General Plan
for high density (the plan calls it Low/Medium density), and the surroundings are low-intensity uses. Similar attempts to rezone low-density residential or
agricultural land to multi-family have been met with rejection or withdrawal (as with the Boyer farm example). Approving this would mark a significant
departure and could set a new precedent that invites more such requests in quiet residential parts of Draper. Given the history, one could reasonably expect
the Planning Commission and/or City Council to view this proposal skeptically, unless the applicant presents extraordinarily compelling justifications and
safeguards.


Potential Conversion to Section 8 or Affordable Housing
Another concern raised by residents is the possibility that a high-density rental development, if approved, could later be converted into Section 8 housing or
otherwise used for subsidized affordable housing, contrary to initial promises of “luxury apartments.” It’s important to address this with facts and local context:

    •   Section 8 Basics: “Section 8” refers to the federal Housing Choice Voucher program, which helps low-income tenants pay rent in the private market.
        Section 8 is not a zoning designation – it’s a tenant subsidy program. Landlords can choose to accept Section 8 voucher holders (and receive government
        rent payments), or not. In Utah, there is currently no law forcing landlords to accept Section 8 (source-of-income discrimination is not banned
        statewide), so many high-end apartment operators might initially choose not to participate. However, this can change over time – if a development
        struggles to fill units or an economic downturn hits, owners often become more willing to rent to voucher holders to keep units occupied. No city
        ordinance can prohibit an owner from accepting Section 8 tenants; doing so would violate fair housing principles. Thus, once a large apartment
        complex is built, the city has limited control over who the landlord rents to in the long run.
    •   Conversion to Dedicated Affordable Housing: Apart from individual vouchers, there’s the scenario where an entire complex gets sold to an affordable
        housing operator or converted into income-restricted housing (for example, via tax credit financing or a project-based Section 8 contract). This usually
                                                                                  7
    happens if the original developer decides to exit and a specialized investor (like a housing authority or non-profit) acquires the property. It can also
    happen if the developer originally finances it using low-income housing tax credits (LIHTC), which require units to be rented to lower-income
    households. Typically, developers present their projects as market-rate to gain community acceptance, but later might leverage affordable housing
    programs for financial reasons.
•   Precedent in Draper (13800 South Case): Residents have specifically cited a development at 13800 South Draper that allegedly turned into Section 8 or
    low-income housing. Indeed, there is a notable case: a 30-unit condominium building at ~248 East 13800 South was part of a state-administered
    affordable housing effort about a decade ago. The building was a 4-story condo project that had stalled; it was then acquired and rehabilitated with
    public funds under a federal Neighborhood Stabilization Program (NSP) grant, with the condition that units be sold to moderate-income owner-
    occupantsfiles.hudexchange.infofiles.hudexchange.info. Records show the intent was to “complete the unfinished…condominium building for sale to
    qualified home [buyers]” and that “all units [were] sold to owner occupants with a 5-year recapture period”files.hudexchange.info. This implies the units
    had affordability restrictions for at least 5 years. After that period, some units appear to have entered the rental market – listings on Apartments.com
    and Zillow have shown condos at that address for rent at market rates. It’s unclear if those units are rented to voucher holders, but the key point is
    Draper has seen a high-density building on 13800 S specifically used for affordable housing purposes (initially via subsidized sale to lower-income
    families). Additionally, the land immediately around 248 E 13800 S was “land banked for future development of affordable housing units” by the Utah
    affordable housing programjobs.utah.gov. This indicates an expectation that more affordable units would be built there.
•   Risk for Kimballs Lane Project: If the Edge Homes project is approved as a large rental community, nothing would prevent the owner or future owners
    from renting to Section 8 voucher holders. While Edge Homes may market it as upscale apartments initially, the economic reality is that rents are
    dictated by supply and demand. If the local market cannot absorb hundreds of luxury-rate units, the developer might lower rents or welcome voucher
    subsidies to fill vacancies. Over time (especially after any initial investor agreements or financing requirements expire), the property could effectively
    operate as workforce or low-income housing if market conditions push it that direction. In a worst-case scenario, if the project fails financially, it could
    be sold in bulk to a housing authority or a low-income housing tax credit investor, who would then legally commit some or all units to affordable rates.
    Draper would then have a de facto subsidized housing complex in a spot that was originally intended (in the General Plan) for low-density homes.
•   Crime and Maintenance Correlations: The reason many residents worry about a “Section 8” conversion is concern about higher crime or lower property
    maintenance, which they associate (fairly or not) with low-income apartment complexes. It’s true that statistically, areas with higher concentrations of
    poverty can see more crime and social challenges. A large apartment complex, especially if it deteriorates or is not well-managed, can become a hotspot
    for police calls. This is not unique to subsidized housing – any high-density housing will generate more calls than a subdivision of single-family homes
    simply due to the number of people living there. For context, Draper Police have had to deal with incidents near the existing Kimballs Lane TRAX station
    (as noted, an assault was reported there)facebook.com. Adding hundreds of units right by that station could either improve the situation (more “eyes on
    the street” and an active community can sometimes deter crime) or exacerbate it (if the complex isn’t closely monitored, it could provide more
    targets/opportunities for crime). In any case, if a complex ever did transition to accept a large number of Section 8 tenants, it would likely house many
    lower-income families, which can strain local resources if not planned for (schools might see more students in need, the city might need more frequent
    police patrols, etc.). It bears emphasizing that Section 8 tenants are not inherently criminals – most are families or individuals trying to make ends meet
    – but the perception and potential for problems increases with high density and lack of community integration.
•   City Levers: Draper City cannot attach a condition to a rezone that “no Section 8 renters” be allowed – that would be unlawful and unenforceable. What
    the city can do is ensure that if the project is approved, it is built to high standards (so it doesn’t quickly decline into disrepair) and that the developer’s
    promises (luxury amenities, security measures, on-site management, etc.) are in writing via the development agreement. That way, even if the tenant
    mix changes over time, the property is more likely to remain well-maintained and safe. The city could also require a management plan or crime
    prevention plan as part of the agreement (for example, commitments to install security cameras, adequate lighting, controlled access gates, etc., which
    benefit all residents regardless of income).
                                                                               8
In summary, the concern about conversion to Section 8 housing is not unfounded given the precedent on 13800 South and the general unpredictability of rental
properties over decades. Approving a large multi-family zone introduces the possibility that its occupant demographics could shift in the future in ways the city
can’t control. Residents who bought into a low-density neighborhood could eventually find a subsidized housing complex next door. The most factual statement
here is: any high-density rental can become mixed-income or low-income housing over time, either informally through vouchers or formally through
programmatic conversion – whereas low-density zones (RA1/RA2) will almost certainly remain homeowner-occupied single-family in character. Thus, keeping
the current zoning is the surest way to prevent a sudden concentration of subsidized housing at this site.


Draper’s General Plan and Neighborhood Compatibility
A fundamental test of any rezoning is whether it aligns with the city’s General Plan (the long-range policy guide for land use) and whether the new use is
compatible with the surrounding neighborhood. The Kimballs Lane proposal raises red flags on both counts:

    •   General Plan Land Use Designation: The Draper General Plan’s Land Use Map currently designates this area as “Residential Low/Medium Density.”
        According to Draper’s definitions, Low-Medium Density residential is intended for roughly 0–2 dwellings per acre – essentially single-family homes on
        large lots (this category encompasses RA1, RA2 zoning)draperutah.gov. In fact, low-medium is one of the least dense residential categories, reflecting
        the semirural character. The applicant is asking to change the designation to “Residential High Density.” The General Plan defines High Density
        Residential as roughly 8–12 dwellings per acredraperutah.gov, and this category in Draper is typically implemented via zones like RM1 or RM2 for
        apartments or townhomes. Even if the General Plan amendment to “High Density” is granted, the applicant’s desired 25–27 du/ac far exceeds the 12
        units/acre upper limit generally contemplated by Draper’s plan for high densitydraperutah.gov. In reality, the project is pushing into a density range that
        Draper’s plan does not even map out (one might call it “very high density”). This means the proposal isn’t a minor tweak to the General Plan – it’s a
        significant departure from the community’s adopted vision. Typically, such a leap in density would only be considered if there were extremely
        compelling reasons (e.g., adjacency to a major transit hub, or a pressing city-wide housing need, etc.). While there is a TRAX light rail station nearby
        (Kimballs Lane Station on 700 E) and Draper, like all cities, is encouraged to plan for affordable housing, the General Plan likely envisioned any transit-
        proximate density to still be within the “High Density 8-12/ac” range. Twenty-five units per acre is akin to what you’d see in downtown Salt Lake City or
        dense urban centers, not in Draper’s suburban context, unless specifically master-planned (as maybe will happen at the Prison Site “Point”
        development, but that’s a unique area with its own plan).
    •   General Plan Policies: Beyond the map designation, Draper’s General Plan contains narrative policies about land use compatibility. Generally, the Plan
        emphasizes gradual transitions between different residential densities, protecting existing neighborhoods from incompatible infill, and ensuring that
        growth “matches the character called for in the Density Element of the General Plan”codelibrary.amlegal.com. The RA1/RA2 zones explicitly align with
        the plan’s call to preserve semirural character and have little impact on municipal services or surroundingscodelibrary.amlegal.com. Jumping to multi-
        family on this site would create a sharp, not gradual, transition – from farming or very low-density use straight to one of the highest densities in the city.
        The Plan does encourage higher density housing in certain places, particularly near transit stations and major corridors, as part of regional growth and
        moderate-income housing strategies. In fact, Draper’s recent Moderate Income Housing Plan (2022) includes strategies like rezoning for higher density
        or moderate-income housing “in commercial or mixed-use zones near major transit investment corridors”cityofdraper-001-us.govstack.com. However,
        the Kimballs Lane location is tricky: yes, it’s near a TRAX station (within a few hundred yards), which on paper supports transit-oriented development.
        But it is not in a commercial or mixed-use center – it’s wedged in a primarily institutional and low-residential area. Effective transit-oriented
        development (TOD) usually also involves a mix of uses (shops, offices) and a network of streets to distribute traffic – those elements are absent here. So
        while one could argue the proposal meets one aspect of the housing plan (proximity to transit), it fails the others (appropriate context, infrastructure to
                                                                                  9
       support it). Furthermore, Draper’s High Density category wasn’t automatically applied to all areas near transit; the city still analyzed where high density
       makes sense without harming existing neighborhoods.
   •   Neighborhood Compatibility: Compatibility means the new development should complement or at least not detract from the character, scale, and
       function of existing development around it. The immediate vicinity of 600 E Kimballs Lane can be characterized as follows:
           o North/West: The Juan Diego Catholic campus (schools and church) – large institutional uses on big parcels, which generate traffic at specific
               times but are mostly open land (athletic fields, parking lots) and low-rise buildings. They have a quiet presence outside of school hours.
           o South/East: Predominantly single-family homes (in subdivisions with RA2 or similar zoning), and possibly some agricultural or vacant land and a
               few low-rise office buildings closer to 700 East. The single-family neighborhoods are cohesive, with local streets, yards, and a family-friendly
               atmosphere.
           o General feel: The area has a suburban/rural fringe feel – you can see the Wasatch Mountains, open fields along Kimballs Lane, and there are
               still stretches without intense development. It’s not an urban center by any means.

       Dropping a large apartment complex into this mix raises multiple compatibility issues:

           o   Scale and Massing: Single-family homes vs. apartment blocks – even at 3 stories, an apartment building (or a cluster of 3-story buildings totaling
               500 units) is a far more massive presence than any single house or school building around. The bulk and height, and continuous facades of multi-
               unit buildings, would make them the dominant visual element in the area. Neighbors who now overlook open space or distant homes might
               suddenly face towering structures, parking lot lights, and balconies peering into their backyards.
           o   Density of Population: The neighborhoods are currently low population density – quiet at night, minimal on-street parking issues, etc. An influx
               of perhaps 1,000+ residents (500 units × an average household size of, say, 2 people) into one spot means a dramatic increase in activity. There
               will be more noise, more light (from cars, buildings, streetlights in the complex), and simply more comings-and-goings at all hours. This could
               fundamentally alter the peace and quiet that existing residents now enjoy.
           o   Traffic/ Parking Spillover: As discussed in the traffic section, compatibility is questionable due to the road network. Residents on adjacent
               streets might see more drivers shortcutting through their area. If the complex ever has insufficient parking, cars could overflow into nearby
               church or school parking lots or even residential streets during events – an issue we’ve seen in other cities when large complexes are built
               without strict parking management.
           o   Buffering and Transitions: Good planning practice would buffer lower-density homes from a high-density project – typically through transitional
               zoning (e.g., medium-density townhomes as a step-down) or physical buffers like parks or wide landscaped setbacks. Here, the request is to go
               straight from RA2 to RM2 with no intermediate step. The applicant would need to show on a site plan how they will buffer the edges: perhaps
               they’d put two-story townhome-style buildings around the perimeter next to any single-family lots, with taller buildings internal. They might
               include landscape berms, trees, or a wall. But at 25 units/acre, space for substantial buffering is limited. There is a genuine risk that the
               development will feel crammed in and looming, rather than a gently integrated addition.
           o   Crime and Social Impact: As touched on, a big complex might not “fit in” socially – the transient renter population (some apartments turn over
               50% of tenants annually) could feel disconnected from the long-term residents around. This can undermine community cohesion. The nearby
               residents may worry about increased crime or at least unfamiliar faces. While such concerns can sometimes be overblown, they are part of
               perceived compatibility. A compatible project usually tries to minimize negative perceptions – for instance, a senior housing apartment might be
               low traffic and quiet, thus very compatible; but a generic high-density apartment with mixed demographics might be seen as less so.

Given these points, the proposed zoning change does not align with Draper’s General Plan nor the neighborhood compatibility criteria:
                                                                                10
    •   The General Plan envisioned low-density use here; the needed amendment to High Density is a major policy shift. Even then, the project overshoots the
        plan’s defined density range for high densitydraperutah.gov, essentially making new policy on the fly via a development agreement.
    •   The surrounding land uses are not high density; they are institutional and low-density residential. The project would be an island of intense
        development, which is typically discouraged unless part of a planned center.
    •   Draper’s zoning code calls for multi-family zones to be “appropriately buffered from and compatible with surrounding land
        uses”codelibrary.amlegal.com. It is questionable if any amount of buffering can make a 500-unit project truly “compatible” with single-family homes on
        large lots. The impacts on traffic, views, noise, and lifestyle are inherently disproportionate.

Incompatibility Example: One can analogize this to a scenario the Planning Commission encountered in another city: “to mix attached houses or multiple family
complexes with single family homes increases incompatibility”cityofboise.org – that was a comment from a public survey in a zoning code rewrite, highlighting a
common sentiment. In Draper’s case, careful planning has usually segregated or tapered densities to avoid that clash. Approving this request would create
exactly the type of sharp contrast that planning principles warn against.

Neighborhood Opposition: It’s also relevant that local neighbors are organizing in opposition (evidenced by signage, petitions, etc.). While not a technical
criterion, community input is a factor officials consider under “neighborhood compatibility.” A development that faces massive opposition from those who live
nearby can be seen as inherently incompatible. Conversely, if something truly fits well, it tends to garner at least some local support or ambivalence. Here, the
early signs are that residents are deeply concerned about losing the area’s character and transitioning to a high-density environment. They point to Draper’s
long-standing goal of maintaining a balance between growth and preserving the quality of life in its residential neighborhoods.

In conclusion, the proposed rezoning to RM2 with high-density apartments does not align with Draper’s General Plan goals for this area, nor is it compatible
with the existing neighborhood context. It represents an isolated, high-intensity development that would fundamentally alter the area’s character and
potentially undermine the semirural, family-oriented environment that the RA1/RA2 zoning was meant to protect. It is essentially a request for an exception to
the plan, rather than an implementation of it. Unless Draper City is deliberately pursuing a new vision for this area (which would require broad stakeholder buy-
in and careful planning), the safer and more prudent course is to adhere to the adopted plan – which means keeping the land use and zoning low-density. The
burden should be on the applicant to prove not only that the General Plan should be amended, but that the project can be made truly compatible with its
surroundings; based on the analysis above, that burden has not been met.


Conclusion
After reviewing the details of the Edge Homes proposal for 600 E Kimballs Lane, the findings strongly suggest that the high-density rezoning would be
detrimental to the community and inconsistent with Draper’s established plans and ordinances. Key conclusions include:

    •   Zoning Disparity: The jump from RA1/RA2 to RM2 (with double-density via development agreement) is an extreme upzoning. RA1/RA2 foster large-lot,
        low-impact developmentcodelibrary.amlegal.com, whereas RM2 would introduce a multifamily complex at urban densities in a suburban neighborhood.
        The fundamental incompatibility in allowed density, use, and form is clear from the zoning comparison.
    •   Development Agreement Use: While a development agreement can legally enable this projectcodelibrary.amlegal.com, it should be used to benefit the
        public, not just the developer. No amount of paper conditions can fully mitigate the inherent issues of overburdening one small area with so many units.

                                                                                11
        The agreement cannot erase traffic or erase density; it can only tweak design details. The city must ask: is this agreement in the best interest of Draper
        or only of the applicant?
    •   Traffic and Safety: The single access problem is an objective hazard – the code limits of 100 units on one access exist for good
        reasoncodelibrary.amlegal.com. Ignoring them would jeopardize public safety. Traffic congestion around schools and churches would worsen
        significantly, impacting everyday life for current residents and the safety of schoolchildren. Mitigation would require infrastructure projects that are not
        currently planned or budgeted.
    •   Precedent and Public Trust: Similar rezones have been denied or withdrawn in Draper when they conflicted with neighborhood character (e.g., Boyer’s
        11/ac proposal)change.org. Approving 25+/ac here would send a signal that long-range plans and citizen input can be overturned on an ad-hoc basis.
        This could erode public trust and invite more speculative high-density proposals, with developers hoping to capitalize on any inconsistency in city
        decisions.
    •   Section 8 Concerns: While one cannot prejudge who will live in a development, the risk of eventual conversion to lower-income housing is real – once
        built, the units can be rented or sold to anyone. Draper would lose the control it currently has by keeping zoning low-density. If the goal is to address
        moderate-income housing, there might be more suitable, planned locations to do so (for instance, near transit in mixed-use centers, but with
        comprehensive planning). Simply dumping a big complex in a low-density area is a crude solution that creates as many problems as it attempts to solve.
    •   General Plan Alignment: The proposal directly contradicts the General Plan’s current designation and exceeds even the high-density category
        parametersdraperutah.gov. It fails the test of neighborhood compatibility by creating a harsh density transition. It is growth that is not “thoughtful” (to
        quote the petition phrase)change.org but rather opportunistic. Draper’s General Plan and recent policy actions favor managed, gradual growth with an
        emphasis on preserving what residents value about their communities. This project is out of step with those values.

In light of these points, the recommended action would be to deny the rezoning and land use amendment, thereby rejecting the development agreement for
25–27 du/acre. The property can still develop under the existing RA1/RA2 zoning in a way that adds new homes without overwhelming the area – for example, a
custom home subdivision or a large-lot neighborhood that complements the semirural feel. Such development would generate minimal traffic, pose no access
issues, and integrate smoothly with Draper’s long-term plan for the area. Alternatively, if the city sees merit in some higher density due to the TRAX station, a far
more modest plan (e.g. a transition to R3 or R4 zoning for single-family homes on smaller lots, or perhaps a senior housing community) could be considered as a
compromise – but even that should go through extensive public vetting and adhere to perhaps a Medium Density designation (4–8 units/acre) rather than jump
to High/Very High Density.

Ultimately, Draper City should uphold its zoning principles that development be compatible, orderly, and in line with the general plan. The Kimballs Lane high-
density proposal, as it stands, fails those criteria. The costs to the community (traffic, safety, loss of character, uncertainty of future use) outweigh the benefits
(which primarily accrue to the developer in the form of profit from many units). The Planning Commission and City Council have strong grounds to oppose this
change, and doing so would be consistent with both resident sentiment and the city’s prior decisions.

Sources:

    •   Draper City Code – Title 9 (Zoning) and Title 17
        (Subdivision)codelibrary.amlegal.comcodelibrary.amlegal.comcodelibrary.amlegal.comcodelibrary.amlegal.com
    •   Draper City General Plan (2019/2022) – Land Use definitions and density rangesdraperutah.govdraperutah.gov
    •   Draper City Public Notice, Kimballs Junction proposal (2025)draperutah.gov
    •   Draper City Council & Planning Commission records – case studies and comments on similar proposalschange.orgdraper.granicus.com
                                                                                  12
•   Utah State Housing Data (NSP program for 13800 S condos)files.hudexchange.info
•   Draper Police public bulletin (incident near Kimballs Ln station)facebook.com




                                                                        13
