MEMO
To: City Council
From: Jennifer Jastremsky
Date: 2025-03-04
Re: Action Item: Ordinance #1638


Comments:


This application is a request for approval of a Development Agreement Amendment for
approximately 25.9 acres located on the east side of Canyon Point Rd. and Suncrest Dr.,
at approximately 2635 East 15040 South. The property is currently zoned RR-22, RM, and
C-3. The applicant is requesting that a Development Agreement Amendment be
approved to allow for additional changes to slope easements and fill placed on the
adjacent City property.



The subject property was originally part of the Suncrest Development Agreement. It was
removed from that agreement in 2015 with the approval of the initial Hidden Canyon
Estates, Mercer Mountain Estates, and Lakeview Heights Properties Development
Agreement. The Original 2015 Development Agreement approved the Mercer Mountain
Estates development as a 50-lot single-family subdivision with a minimum lot size of
12,000 ft2 and allowed for a private gated community.



Since 2015 there have been ten amendments to the Development Agreement. Several of
those amendments dealt with the development of the Hidden Canyon Estates Subdivision
and its Lone Peak Canyon phase. A few of the amendments dealt with this Mercer
Mountain Estates Subdivision. The Fifth Amendment allows fill to be placed on the City’s
property adjacent to Canyon Point Rd. and Suncrest Dr. and modified the location of the
grated entrance location. The Eighth Amendment modified roadway locations on the
property and approved some land swaps between the City and the property owner. The
10th Amendment was approved on January 7, 2025. The 10th Amendment also dealt with
fill on the City open space, roadway width and design, fencing, stormwater infrastructure,
and slope easements.



The zoning on the property is unique. The City did not rezone the property in 2015 from
the Suncrest zoning, which is tied to the 1999 Draper City Municipal Code (1999 DCMC).
However, the initial Development Agreement removed the property from the Suncrest
Development Agreement which means the property is required to comply with current
zoning code, the Current Draper City Municipal Code (Current DCMC), and the current
Development Agreement and amendments.



The proposed Development Agreement allows additional fill on the City adjacent open
space next to the entrance road into the development. The applicant is agreeing to
donate to the City $200,000 as consideration for the additional allocation. The agreement
states the donation shall be paid to the City prior to issuance of a Land Disturbance
Permit. In addition, the applicant will be responsible for seeding the area with city
specified native seed mix, with a two-season warranty period to ensure growth and
prevent erosion. Any trails impacted by the fill will be restored or realigned according to
approved site plan drawings.



The Development Agreement also provides easements to the applicant for a sewer
connection to the Hog Hollow sewer alignment, and a construction and drainage
easement for the detention basin. The Agreement mentions the need for a construction
easement on City property to facilitate the placement of the fill. The actual construction
easement location will be determined at a future date.


Since this Development Agreement amendment does not modify any zoning or
subdivision code standards, it is not reviewed by the Planning Commission, and is heard
by the City Council as an action item.

Findings for approval:
  1. The prosed Development Agreement complies with DCMC Section 9-5-200(C) and
     (D).
  2. List any additional findings…

Findings for denial:
  1. The proposed Development Agreement does not comply with one or more
     elements of DCMC Section 9-5-200(C) or (D).
  2. List any additional findings…




ATTACHMENTS:
Ordinance 1638.pdf
