MEMO
To: City Council
From: Todd Taylor
Date: 2025-02-04
Re: Public Hearing: Ordinance #1632


Comments:

This application is a request for approval of a Development Agreement and Zoning Map
Amendment for approximately 4.44 acres located on the east side of Constanza Way, at
approximately 12741 S and 12751 S Costanza Way. The applicant is requesting a zone
change from A5 (Agricultural, 5 acre lot minimum) to RA2 (Residential Agricultural, 20,000
ft² lot minimum) in conjunction with the Development Agreement to allow the existing
two (2) parcels to be developed into four (4) lots.

The Planning Commission reviewed this request at their October 10, 2024 meeting and
forwarded a positive recommendation on a 5-0 vote.

Development Agreement
Findings for Approval:
  1. The proposed development agreement complies with DCMC Subsections 9-5-200(C)
     and (D).

Findings for Denial:
  1. The proposed development agreement does not comply with all requirements of
     DCMC Subsections 9-5-200(C) and (D).

Zoning Map Amendment
Findings for Approval:
  1. The proposed zoning map amendment is consistent with goals, objectives, and
     policies of the city's general plan.
  2. The proposed zoning map amendment is harmonious with the overall character of
     existing development in the vicinity of the subject property.
  3. The proposed zoning map amendment is consistent with the standards of any
     applicable overlay zone.
  4. The proposed zoning map amendment will not adversely affect adjacent property.
  5. There are adequate facilities and services intended to serve the subject property,
     including, but not limited to, roadways, parks and recreation facilities, police and fire
     protection, schools, stormwater drainage systems, water supplies, and wastewater
     and refuse collection.
Findings for Denial:
  1. The proposed zoning map amendment is not consistent with goals, objectives, and
     policies of the city's general plan.
  2. The proposed zoning map amendment is not harmonious with the overall character
     of existing development in the vicinity of the subject property.
  3. The proposed zoning map amendment is not consistent with the standards of any
     applicable overlay zone.
  4. The proposed zoning map amendment will adversely affect adjacent property.
  5. There are not adequate facilities and services intended to serve the subject
     property, including, but not limited to, roadways, parks and recreation facilities,
     police and fire protection, schools, stormwater drainage systems, water supplies,
     and wastewater and refuse collection.


ATTACHMENTS:

Ordinance 1632.pdf
ATTACHMENTS:

Warhorse DA ZMA Staff Report_Finalized.pdf
