                                  Development Review Committee
                                      1020 East Pioneer Road
                                        Draper, UT 84020
                                           November 12, 2025

To:              Draper City Planning Commission
                 Business Date: December 11, 2025

From:            Development Review Committee

Prepared By: Todd Draper, AICP, Planning Manager
             Planning Division
             Community Development Department
             801-576-6335, todd.draper@draperutah.gov

Re:     Pinnacle Towers – Conditional Use Permit Amendment Request
        Application No.: 2025-0328-USE
        Applicant:        Todd Daoust, representing Commscapes, Crown Castle
                          International, and Pinnacle Towers, INC.
        Project Location: approximately 16211 S Minuteman Dr.
        Current Zoning: M2 (Major Manufacturing) Zone
        Acreage:          0.90 Acres (Approximately 39,204 ft2)
        Request:          Request for approval of a Conditional Use Permit Amendment in
                          the M2 zone regarding a wireless telecommunications facility and
                          removal a condition of approval related to review of the permit at
                          25-year intervals.



BACKGROUND AND SUMMARY
This application is a request for approval of a Conditional Use Permit amendment for
approximately 0.90 acres located on the east side of Minuteman Dr., at approximately
16211 S Minuteman Dr. (Exhibit B & C). The property is currently zoned M2. The applicant is
requesting that an amendment be approved to remove a condition of approval related to
review of the permit at 25-year intervals.

The original Conditional Use Permit (CUP) was approved in 2001. The existing tower was
approved as a 100-foot-tall lattice tower located in the far southwest area of the city
between the Staker & Parson gravel pit and the Utah State Flight Park. The tower provides
XM radio services and additional antennas for Utah Broadband and NextNav Omni were
added to the tower in approximately 2012. Previous addresses of 511 West 16211 South



«Project_Name»                                                    App. # «JS_File_Number»0238-USE
Conditional Use Permit Amendment Request           1
and 16201 South Minuteman Dr. have also been associated with prior approvals for the
site.



ANALYSIS
General Plan and Zoning.

 Table 1                   General Plan and Zoning Designations                    Exhibit
 Existing Land Use         Community Commercial                                    Exhibit D
 Current Zoning            M2                                                      Exhibit E
 Proposed Use              Wireless Telecommunications Facility
 Adjacent Zoning
     East                  Mining and Grazing 1 (Unincorporated Utah County)
     West                  M2
     North                 M2
     South                 Mining and Grazing 1 (Unincorporated Utah County)

The Community Commercial land use designation is characterized as follows:




According to Draper City Municipal Code (DCMC) Section 9-8-020 the purpose of the M2
zone is to, “provide areas where uses involving industrial processes and natural resource




«Project_Name»                                                     App. # «JS_File_Number»0238-USE
Conditional Use Permit Amendment Request        2
extraction may be permitted without negatively impacting other areas of the city, especially
when undertaken on a large scale. To assure compatibility with uses in other adjacent
zones, most manufacturing operations are allowed only as conditional uses.”

Site Plan Layout and Design. The proposed site plan is included as Exhibit F. The tower is
located towards the north end of the triangularly shaped subject property, and is accessed
by private access roadways. A small equipment shelter measuring approximately ten (10)
feet by fifteen (15) feet in size is located to the west of the tower. The lattice tower structure
was originally approved with a maximum height of one-hundred feet (100’) (Exhibit H).
Based on the submitted elevation drawings (Exhibit G), the current tower appears to have
been increased to its current overall height of one-hundred sixteen feet eight inches (116’
8”) sometime over the past 24 years. Staff has been unable to locate a zoning approval for
the additional height above the originally permitted one-hundred feet (100’), however the
approved building permit for installation of the NextNav Omni antenna in 2012 showed
installation of the top antenna at one-hundred fourteen feet (114’). The additional overall
existing height appears to be attributable to a safety climb structure installed on the top of
the lattice tower.

There is not a maximum height for lattice towers in the Wireless Facilities ordinance, or for
structures in the M1 zone. Furthermore, Federal Section 6409(a) mandates that local
governments must permit changes to an existing tower that are not considered to be a
substantial change. This would allow additional tower height up to one additional antenna
array plus 20-feet (approximately 30 feet). Staff recommends that the 100-foot height limit
imposed as a condition of approval under the prior CUP be modified to indicate that the
height of the tower may not exceed the additional height allowed under Federal Section
6409(a).

The original CUP required that the tower be available to other carriers for co-location.
There appears to be six (6) different antenna arrays located at different heights on the
tower. Definitive approvals for only two (2) of the current installations were able to be
located by staff. Given the age of the tower, the ambiguity of the street address, and
changes to city permitting processes and record keeping over time, it is possible that the
other wireless providers located on the tower did receive the necessary approvals to co-
locate on the tower even though this is unable to be verified. Staff recommends a
condition of approval that all future changes or updates to the antennas and equipment
located on or associated with the tower obtain the applicable land use permits and building
permits prior to installation of any new antennas or equipment on the site.

As part of the original CUP approval for the tower, a condition was included that the CUP
had to be reviewed after 25 years. The current permit would be due for this review in
November of 2026. The applicant is requesting that this provision be removed from the list
of conditions applicable to the site as part of this CUP amendment. As CUP’s run with the
land, Planning Staff views this condition as a review, not an expiration and recommends



«Project_Name»                                                        App. # «JS_File_Number»0238-USE
Conditional Use Permit Amendment Request        3
that the condition be removed.

The applicant’s responses to the Conditional Use Permit criteria are included as Exhibit I.

 Table 2                     Wireless Telecommunications Facility Permitted Use Design
                             Requirements
 Standard                    DCMC Requirements       Proposal               Notes
 Permitted Use               Stealth, Roof, Wall, or Lattice Tower          Allowed as
 Facility Type               Monopole                                       Conditional Use
 Antennas and Arrays
    Height                   10’ maximum (typical)    Varies. Largest is         Allowed with
                                                      10’-6””, smallest is 2’.   Conditional Use
    Width                    15’ maximum (typical)    Varies. Largest is         Complies
                                                      14’-7.5”, smallest is
                                                      5’.
 Mechanical and              Screened from view       Equipment is located       Complies
 Electrical Equipment        from public ROW and      in a shelter or other
 Screening                   adjacent properties      vaults on the site.
                             with a solid screen
 Setbacks-
    Tower                    None specified for       North: 40’                 Complies
                             lattice towers           Southeast: 43’
                                                      West: 65’
     Accessory               None                     North: 45’                 Complies
     Buildings                                        Southeast: 49’
                                                      West: 45’
 Location of                 All communication and    Some lines are             The current
 Communication and           power lines to be        above ground and           locations of the
 Power lines                 located underground      covered with ice           lines are allowed
                                                      bridges. Others are        under the
                                                      underground.               Conditional Use
                                                                                 Permit.

Landscaping. No landscaping was required as part of the conditions for the original permit
and no changes are being proposed with this application.

Lighting. No exterior lighting was identified as part of the original application and no
changes are proposed with this application. Given the proximity of the tower to the Utah
State Flight Park, FAA required lighting likely exists and will remain.

Fencing. The original approval required that a six-foot (6’) tall vinyl-coated chain link fence
be installed around the site. No changes to the existing fencing are proposed with this




«Project_Name»                                                         App. # «JS_File_Number»0238-USE
Conditional Use Permit Amendment Request          4
application.

Previous Conditions of Approval. The Planning Commission/placed the following conditions
of approval on the Conditional Use Permit on November 8, 2001:

        1.       That a current business license be obtained and continually maintained with
                 Draper City.
        2.       That a building permit be obtained prior to construct ion of the tower and
                 that all requirements of the Building Department are met.
        3.       That all requirements of the Fire Marshal are met.
        4.       That a six (6) foot vinyl-coated chain-link fence be installed as per drawings
                 dated 22 October 2001.
        5.       That the tower be limited to 100’ in overall height, including associated
                 antennas.
        6.       That co-location be required on this site.
        7.       The conditional use permit will expire in 25 years (November 8, 2026)
        8.       That no landscaping be required.

Criteria For Approval.
As the tower design and height does not conform with the permitted use standards of
DCMC 9-41-040 or 9-41-050, a condition use permit is required as per DCMC 9-41-060.

9-41-060: CONDITIONAL USE:
A wireless telecommunication facility that does not conform to the development standards
of section 9-41-040 of this chapter may be established in any agricultural, residential,
commercial, public facilities, or industrial zone subject to the issuance of a conditional use
permit pursuant to the requirements of section 9-5-080 of this title and the development
standards of section 9-41-070 of this chapter. Each facility shall require a separate
conditional use permit.

The criteria for review and potential approval of a conditional use permit request are found
in Section 9-5-080(E) of the DCMC. This section depicts the standard of review for such
requests as:

        E. Approval Standards: The standards of this subsection shall apply to the issuance
            of a conditional use permit:
         1. A conditional use permit may be issued for a use to be located within a zone
            where the particular conditional use is allowed by the use regulations of the
            zone.
         2. Reasonable conditions may be imposed as necessary to substantially mitigate
            reasonably anticipated detrimental effects of the proposed use. These
            conditions may include conditions concerning use, construction, character,
            location, landscaping, screening, parking, hours of operation, and other matters



«Project_Name»                                                       App. # «JS_File_Number»0238-USE
Conditional Use Permit Amendment Request        5
             relating to the purposes and objectives of this section. Such conditions shall be
             expressly set forth in the motion authorizing the conditional use permit.
          3. If the reasonably anticipated detrimental effects of a proposed conditional use
             cannot be substantially mitigated by the imposition of reasonable conditions to
             achieve compliance with applicable standards, the conditional use may be
             denied.
          4. The following factors shall be reviewed and considered in determining whether a
             conditional use permit application should be approved, approved with
             conditions, or denied because reasonable conditions cannot be imposed to
             achieve compliance with applicable standards:
               a. The harmony and compliance of the proposed use with the objectives and
                  requirements of the city's general plan and this title;
               b. The suitability of the specific property for the proposed use;
               c. Whether the proposed use or facility may be injurious to potential or existing
                  development in the vicinity;
               d. The economic impact of the proposed facility or use on the surrounding
                  area;
               e. The aesthetic impact of the proposed facility or use on the surrounding area;
               f. The safeguards proposed or provided to ensure adequate utilities,
                  transportation access, drainage, parking, loading space, lighting, screening,
                  landscaping, open space, fire protection, and pedestrian and vehicular
                  circulation;
               g. The safeguards provided or proposed to prevent noxious or offensive
                  emissions such as noise, glare, dust, pollutants and odor from the proposed
                  facility or use; and
               h. The impact of the proposed facility or use on the health, safety, and welfare
                  of the city, the area, and persons owning or leasing property in the area.
          5. The planning commission may request additional information as may be
             reasonably needed to determine whether the requirements of this subsection E
             can be met.

The applicable additional conditional use factors for evaluating this particular Conditional
Use Permit for a wireless telecommunications facility are found in DCMC Subsections 9-41-
070(C), (D), and (H). The additional standards for review of this request are as follows:

C. Fencing And Screening Requirements: Specific fencing and screening plans for each
facility shall be submitted to the city in conjunction with any conditional use permit
application. Higher grade fencing, more aesthetic fence designs, and landscaping may be
required for the purposes of visual screening, architectural compatibility, site compatibility,
and other impact mitigation.

D. Lattice Towers: A lattice tower facility shall be permitted only upon a finding that none
of the other facility types set forth in subsection 9-41-020(B) of this chapter is suitable in



«Project_Name»                                                       App. # «JS_File_Number»0238-USE
Conditional Use Permit Amendment Request        6
light of particular circumstances associated with a location where a facility is required for
the proper functioning of a low power radio services network.

H. Additional Conditional Use Factors: In addition to conditional use standards outlined in
subsection 9-5-080E of this title, the following factors shall be considered in evaluating an
application for a conditional use permit:
       1. Compatibility of the proposed structure with the height and mass of existing
       buildings and utility structures.
       2. For new sites, whether location of the antenna on other existing structures in the
       same vicinity such as other towers, buildings, water towers, utility poles, athletic
       field lights, parking lot lights, etc., is possible without significantly impacting antenna
       transmission or reception.
       3. Antenna location in relation to existing vegetation, topography and buildings to
       obtain the best visual screening.
       4. Whether spacing between monopoles creates quantifiable detrimental impacts
       to adjoining properties.


REVIEWS
Planning Division Review. The Draper City Planning Division has completed their review of
the Amended Conditional Use Permit submission. Comments from this division, if any, can
be found in Exhibit A.

Engineering and Public Works Divisions Review. The Draper City Engineering and Public
Works Divisions have completed their reviews of the Amended Conditional Use Permit
submission. Comments from these divisions, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Building Division Review. The Draper City Building Division has completed their review of
the Amended Conditional Use Permit submission. Comments from this division, if any, can
be found in Exhibit A.

Fire Division Review. The Draper City Fire Marshal has completed his review of the
Amended Conditional Use Permit submission. Comments from this division, if any, can be
found in Exhibit A.

Noticing. Notice has been properly issued in the manner outlined in the City and State
Codes.



STAFF RECOMMENDATION
Staff recommends that the Planning Commission review the request, hear from the
applicant, receive public comment, and make a decision based on the findings and criteria
for approval, or denial, as listed within the staff report.



«Project_Name»                                                        App. # «JS_File_Number»0238-USE
Conditional Use Permit Amendment Request        7
If the Planning Commission decides to approve the request, staff recommends they include
the following conditions of approval:

        1.       That compliance with the previous conditions numbered 1, 2, 3, 4, 6, and 8
                 from the November 8, 2021 Conditional Use Permit approval continue to be
                 maintained.
        2.       That condition number 5 from the November 8, 2021 Conditional Use Permit
                 approval be altered to limit the overall height of the lattice tower and
                 antenna to the allowable increases to height as permitted under Federal
                 Section 6409(a).
        3.       That all future changes or updates to the antennas or equipment for the
                 tower obtain the applicable land use permits and building permits prior to
                 installation of any new antennas or equipment on the site.
        4.       That condition number 7 from the November 8, 2021 Conditional Use Permit
                 approval regarding expiration or periodic review of the permit is removed
                 and is no longer applicable.



MODEL MOTIONS
Sample Motion for Approval – I move that we approve the Conditional Use Permit
Amendment, as requested by Todd Daoust, representing Commscapes, Crown Castle
International, and Pinnacle Towers, INC application 2025-0238-USE, based on the findings
and criteria for approval and subject to the conditions listed in the Staff Report dated
November 12, 2025.

Findings for Approval:

        1.       The proposed use is allowed in the M2 zone and the specific property is
                 suitable for the proposed use.
        2.       Reasonable conditions have been imposed that substantially mitigate the
                 reasonably anticipated detrimental effects of the proposed use.
        3.       The proposed use is in harmony with the objectives and requirements of the
                 city's general plan and the zoning ordinance.
        4.       The proposed use will not be injurious to potential or existing development
                 in the vicinity.
        5.       The proposed changes do not create additional aesthetic impacts to the
                 surrounding area.
        6.       The request will not be detrimental to the health, safety or general welfare of
                 the city, the area, or persons owning or leasing property in the area.
        7.       The lattice tower design is suitable in light of the particular circumstances
                 associated with this location.




«Project_Name»                                                       App. # «JS_File_Number»0238-USE
Conditional Use Permit Amendment Request        8
Sample Motion for Modified Approval– I move that we approve the Conditional Use Permit
Amendment, as requested by Todd Daoust, representing Commscapes, Crown Castle
International, and Pinnacle Towers, INC application 2025-0238-USE, based on the findings
and criteria for approval and subject to the conditions listed in the Staff Report dated
November 12, 2025, and as modified by the following additional findings or conditions
below:

        1.       (List any additional findings or conditions…)

Sample Motion for Denial – I move that we deny the Conditional Use Permit Amendment,
as requested by Todd Daoust, representing Commscapes, Crown Castle International, and
Pinnacle Towers, INC application 2025-0238-USE, based on the findings and criteria for
denial as listed in the Staff Report dated November 12, 2025.

Findings for Denial:

        1.       The specific property is not suitable for the proposed use.
        2.       Reasonable conditions are not able to be imposed that substantially mitigate
                 the reasonably anticipated detrimental effects of the proposed use.
        3.       The proposed use is not in harmony with the objectives and requirements of
                 the city's general plan or the zoning ordinance.
        4.       The proposed use is injurious to potential or existing development in the
                 vicinity.
        5.       The proposed changes aesthetically impact the surrounding area.
        6.       The request will be detrimental to the health, safety or general welfare of the
                 city, the area, or persons owning or leasing property in the area.
        7.       The lattice tower design is not suitable in light of the particular circumstances
                 associated with this location.




«Project_Name»                                                        App. # «JS_File_Number»0238-USE
Conditional Use Permit Amendment Request         9
                                        EXHIBIT A
                                   DEPARTMENT REVIEWS

REVIEWS ARE NOT MEANT TO BE AN ALL INCLUSIVE LIST OF POSSIBLE COMMENTS OR
CONDITIONS.



Planning Division Review.

       1.     No additional comments.

Engineering and Public Works Divisions Review.

       1.     No impact to public ROW, utilities, traffic, or public utilities.

Building Division Review.

       1.     No additional comments.

Fire Division Review.

       1.     No additional comments.
  EXHIBIT B
VICINITY MAP
 EXHIBIT C
AERIAL MAP
  EXHIBIT D
LAND USE MAP
 EXHIBIT E
ZONING MAP
EXHIBIT F
SITE PLAN
     EXHIBIT G
ELEVATION DRAWING
          EXHIBIT H
ORIGINAL CUP APPROVAL LETTER
      EXHIBIT I
APPLICANT RESPONSES
September 26, 2025


Mr. Todd Drake
City of Draper
1020 E Pioneer Road
Draper, UT 84020


Re: Administrative Amendment to Conditional Use 01-104 to remove the 25-year expiration


Mr. Drake-

Commscapes, on behalf of Crown Castle International, is respectfully requesting an Administrative
Amendment to Conditional Use Permit 01-104 to allow for the continued use of a 100' XM Radio lattice tower
and associated equipment.

Overview of proposed (existing) Use

The existing facility, located at 16211 South Minuteman Drive (APN 33-24-300-002-0000) was originally
developed by Pinnacle Towers, Inc. in 2001, and has been in continuous use since that time. The Use Permit
was granted for a term of 25 years, and expires on November 8, 2026.

The triangular shaped .9 acre parcel is owned in fee by Pinnacle Towers, Inc. It is zoned M2, and is improved
with a 100’ guyed tower and equipment building, secured by a 10’ tall chain link fence. The communications
tower supporting XM Radio/Sirius, Utah Broadband, and Peak Alarm Company is the parcel’s sole land use. It
is surrounded by M2 zoning to the north and west (aggregate quarry), and by the Flight Park State Park to the
southeast. The site is an unmanned facility and therefore has minimal impact on traffic in the area. Technician
parking is provided within the .9 acre facility.

There are two existing towers located adjacently west at 16213 S Minuteman (33243000060000, State Road
Commission of Utah) and one 175’ to the east within the State Park parcel. This existing verticality serves to
minimize the visual impact of the Pinnacle Tower Facility.

The site was acquired through Crown Castle’s acquisition of Pinnacle Towers in April of 2004.




site identification   ●    acquisition     ●   design     ●    entitlement     ●   project management
          109 East Tuckey Lane Phoenix, AZ 85012 o:: 602.549.9054 e:: tdaoust@commscapesllc.com
Statement of Variance Applicability (DCMC 9-5-110)

A variance will not be required in connection with the existing Conditional Use.

Statement of Compliance with Standards (DCMC 9-5-080E))

The existing Conditional Use meets the approval standards of 9-5-080E because:

    1.) The existing (existing) use is in compliance with the objectives and requirements of the City’s General
        Plan
    2.) The proposed (existing) use is well-suited for the property, given its zoning and surrounding land uses
    3.) The proposed (existing) use is passive and therefore not injurious to potential or existing development
        in the vicinity
    4.) The proposed (existing) use supports wireless communications for the area and therefore creates a
        positive economic impact
    5.) The aesthetic impact of the proposed (existing) use is mitigated by the existence of three additional
        towers surrounding the Pinnacle Towers parcel
    6.) The proposed (existing) use enjoys the benefits of existing utilities, drainage, access, loading, and
        pedestrian and vehicular circulation within the secured facility
    7.) The proposed (existing) use is passive in nature, and does not create any noise, glare, dust, pollutants,
        or odor
    8.) As a passive use, the proposed (existing) use does not have a detrimental impact on the health, safety,
        and welfare of the City or residents owning or leasing property in the area

Based on the foregoing factors, we are respectfully requesting an Administrative Amendment removing the
25-year expiration to allow for the continued use of the facility.

Please contact me with any additional questions or comments. I can be reached at (602)549-9054 or
tdaoust@commscapesllc.com.


Respectfully,


Todd E Daoust
Commscapes, LLC
