MINUTES OF THE DRAPER CITY COUNCIL MEETING HELD ON TUESDAY, APRIL 22,
2025, IN THE DRAPER CITY COUNCIL CHAMBERS, 1020 EAST PIONEER ROAD,
DRAPER, UTAH

PRESENT:     Mayor Troy K. Walker, and Councilmembers Mike Green (via zoom),
             Bryn Heather Johnson, Tasha Lowery, Fred Lowry (via zoom), and
             Marsha Vawdrey
EXCUSED:
STAFF:         Mike Barker, City Manager; Kellie Challburg, Assistant City Manager;
               Scott Cooley, City Engineer and Public Works Director; Spencer
               DuShane, Assistant City Attorney; Pat Evans, Police Captain; Traci
               Gundersen, City Attorney; Jennifer Jastremsky, Community
               Development Director; Malena Murray, Human Resources Director;
               Rhett Ogden, Parks and Recreation Director; Linda Peterson,
               Communications Director; Nicole Smedley, City Recorder; Clint Smith,
               Fire Chief; Jake Sorensen, Network Manager, John Vuyk, Finance
               Director
______________________________________________________________________________________

Study Session

      Station Area Plan Presentations
      Community Development Director Jen Jastremsky introduced Chris Geddes
      with Design Workshop. Mr. Geddes provided a presentation on Station Area
      Plans (SAPs), explaining that SAPs, which establish long-term visions for station
      areas, are required by the State. Mr. Geddes emphasized that a primary goal
      of the SAPs is to increase the availability and affordability of housing within the
      station areas. He outlined the long-term goals for the Kimball’s Lane and
      Crescent View TRAX Stations, as well as the Draper Vista Frontrunner Station.

      Mr. Geddes reported on meetings held with stakeholders and discussed an
      open house planned for May or June, with the goal of adopting the Station
      Area Plans (SAPs) in August or September. He addressed topics related to
      parking, traffic, and connectivity, and explained that 12% of residential
      development within the SAP areas, located within one-third of a mile of the
      stations, is required to meet affordable housing requirements. Mr. Geddes
      also described mixed-use development opportunities and discussed the
      concept of the “missing middle” in residential housing.

                                                                               1|Page
        Draper City Council DRAFT Meeting Minutes – April 22, 2025
Candidate Interviews for the Traverse Ridge Special Service District
Administrative Control Board (TRSSDACB)
The Mayor and Council interviewed the following individuals for positions on
the Traverse Ridge Special Service District Administrative Control Board: Mark
Vincent, James Hether, and Paul Kearsley.

Closed Session
Councilmember T. Lowery made a motion to go into closed session to
discuss the purchase, sale, exchange, or lease of real property. The
motion was seconded by Councilmember Vawdrey.

A roll call vote was taken. The motion passed unanimously.
                                Yes No Absent
Councilmember Green              X
Councilmember Johnson            X
Councilmember T. Lowery          X
Councilmember F. Lowry           X
Councilmember Vawdrey            X

Discussion: Community Cats
City Attorney Traci Gundersen explained that the term “community cats” refers
to unowned cats that often have a loose affiliation with individuals who care
for them. She noted that community cats are generally not considered
adoptable for residential settings. Ms. Gundersen discussed the Trap-Neuter-
Return (TNR) program and provided an overview of State animal welfare
statutes related to community cats. She stated that most municipalities in Salt
Lake County have adopted provisions addressing community cats into their
municipal codes. Ms. Gundersen outlined potential changes to Draper City
Code that would be necessary to allow the TNR program for community cats
within the City.

Ms. Gundersen said the goal at that time was to legalize the practice of feeding,
trapping, neutering, and returning community cats to the environment to keep
the size of the community down. A majority of the Council appeared to indicate
support for staff drafting language for Code.

Discussion: Proposed Amendments to Chapter 4-6 "Alcoholic Beverages"
City Manager Mike Barker explained that Senate Bill 328 (2025) included
authority for cities to waive proximity requirements for alcohol licenses as they

                                                                       2|Page
     pertained to public parks, with written permission from the City Council. Mr.
     Barker said a particular applicant had come up against the City’s license cap
     (one remaining license tagged for a future full-service hotel). He asked if the
     Council desired to consider an amendment to accommodate the current
     applicant, to consider additional changes for the future, or to leave the status
     quo.

     Mayor Walker said the City could expect to receive requests to increase the
     number of possible licenses with the first phase of The Point. The Council
     discussed the possibility of removing the hotel restriction from the remaining
     license for the current applicant, or increasing the total number of licenses
     from eight to nine. At least three Councilmembers indicated support for
     removing the hotel restriction from the remaining license.

     Mr. Barker said staff would prepare amendments to update City Code with
     changes to State Code, and remove the hotel restriction.

Business Session

1.   Call to Order by Mayor Troy K. Walker

2.   Pledge of Allegiance led by Captain Evans

3.   Recognition of the Draper Parks and Recreation Department by the Utah
     Recreation and Park s Association
     LeeAnn Powell, Executive Director of the Utah Recreation and Parks
     Association, recognized the Draper Parks and Recreation Department for
     receiving the 2025 Outstanding Department of the Year Award. Mayor Walker
     expressed appreciation for the Parks and Recreation Department.

4.   Recognition of Detective Anna Adrignola by the Utah Coalition Against
     Sexual Assault
     Lieutenant Dustin Willie recognized Detective Anna Adrignola for being named
     Officer of the Year by the Utah Coalition Against Sexual Assault.

5.   Oath of Office
     Fire Chief Clint Smith introduced newly-hired Firefighter Andrew Botti. City
     Recorder Nicole Smedley administered the Oath of Office. Chief Smith



                                                                           3|Page
      introduced newly-promoted Paramedics Tim Ryan and Shane Street, and Ms.
      Smedley administered the Oath of Office.

6.    Proclamation: Arbor Day
      Mayor Walker read aloud a proclamation recognizing April 25, 2025 as Arbor
      Day in Draper City.

7.    Public Comments
      There were no public comments.

8.    Consent Items
8.a   March 22, 2025 City Council Retreat and April 1, 2025 City Council Meeting
      Minutes
8.b   Resolution #25-15 approving and authorizing an interlocal agreement
      between Draper City and the Salt Lake County Clerk’s Office for the 2025
      municipal primary and general elections
8.c   Resolution #25-16 reappointing Josh Christensen as a member of the
      Draper City Parks, Trails and Recreation Committee
8.d   Resolution #25-18 supporting Draper City’s application for a
      congressional community project funding request to obtain funding for
      the engineering, design and construction of a redundant water system
      and water system upgrades

      Councilmember T. Lowery moved to approve the Consent Agenda.
      Councilmember Johnson seconded the motion.

      A roll call vote was taken. The motion passed unanimously.
                                       Yes No Absent
       Councilmember Green              X
       Councilmember Johnson            X
       Councilmember T. Lowery          X
       Councilmember F. Lowry           X
       Councilmember Vawdrey            X

9.    Items for Council Consideration
9.a   Public Hearing: Ordinances #1646 and #1647 amending the official Land
      Use Map of Draper City from Residential Low-Medium Density to
      Residential Medium-High Density, and amending the official Zoning Map
      of Draper City from RA1 (Residential Agricultural) and RA2 (Residential

                                                                       4|Page
Agricultural) to RM1 (Multiple-Family Residential), for approximately
1.52 acres of property located at approximately 13637 South 300 East and
13651 South 300 East, within Draper City, otherwise known as the
Lanthier Land Use Map and Zoning Map Amendments
Planner Todd Taylor presented the Land Use Map and noted that the subject
property is adjacent to Residential Low-Medium designated properties and is
located across the street from Residential Medium-High development. Mr.
Taylor reported that the Planning Commission reviewed the requests for a
Land Use Map amendment and a Zoning Map amendment, and forwarded a
negative recommendation on both requests with a vote of 4-0.

In response to a question from the Council, Mr. Taylor stated that he believed
the Planning Commission’s findings in recommending a denial were based on
concerns regarding compatibility with the surrounding area, appropriateness
of the proposed changes, and the use of 300 East as a dividing line for
residential density.

Mayor Walker opened the public hearing.

Matt Smith, Draper resident, said he lived just south of the subject property.
Mr. Smith said he was opposed to the proposed changes to both the Land Use
Map and the Zoning Map because he felt they were inconsistent with existing
development in the surrounding area. He spoke of the possibility of future sale
of the property prior to development, and the risk that would be opened up
with Residential Medium-High Density and the RM1 Zone. He spoke of setting
a precedent for future expansion on the east side of 300 East. Mr. Smith said
his decision to purchase his home was based on the character of the area after
looking at the Zoning and Land Use Maps. He requested the Council deny the
proposal.

Kristen Thomas, Draper resident, said she owned the undeveloped lot east of
the subject lot. She said she did not support changing the zoning to RM1
because of the risk that the subject lot could be sold following approval and
prior to development, enabling development of something the neighbors did
not expect or desire, as had previously happened with a different property.
Ms. Thomas expressed the opinion that building seven homes on the lot would
disrupt the existing residential character.




                                                                     5|Page
      Scott Phippen, Draper resident, said his property was adjacent to the subject
      property at the back corner. Mr. Phippen said he knew from experience the
      possibility that the subject property could be sold prior to development, with
      the RM1 zoning enabling development of something the neighbors did not
      want. He said he opposed the zoning change.

      Mayor Walker closed the public hearing.

      Mr. Lanthier said the property had been sitting unchanged since 1947, with
      surrounding lots having been subdivided into half-acre lots. He said the new
      trend was for smaller lots. Responding to a question from Councilmember T.
      Lowery, Mr. Lanthier said he proposed to develop a single-family home on a
      half-acre lot at the rear of the property, and six single-family homes on the
      front of the property, for a total of seven lots.

      Councilmember T. Lowery moved to deny the proposed Land Use Map
      and Zoning Map amendments (Ordinances #1646 and #1647).
      Councilmember Johnson seconded the motion.

      Councilmember T. Lowery said she did not find the proposal to be compatible
      with surrounding zoning or land uses. Councilmembers Green and Johnson
      said they did not support the proposal.

      A roll call vote was taken. The motion passed unanimously.
                                       Yes No Absent
       Councilmember Green              X
       Councilmember Johnson            X
       Councilmember T. Lowery          X
       Councilmember F. Lowry           X
       Councilmember Vawdrey            X

9.a   Public Hearing: Lingo Land Use Map Amendment, Zoning Map
      Amendment, and Development Agreement Amendment Request
      amending the land use map from Residential Low-Medium Density to
      Residential Medium-High Density, amending the zoning map from RA2
      (Residential Agricultural, 20,000 sq. ft. min. lot size) to RM2 (Residential
      Multiple-Family), and amending an existing development agreement for
      approximately 0.05 acres located at approximately 13040 S. 1300 E.


                                                                           6|Page
       Otherwise known as the Lingo Land Use Map Amendment, Zoning Map
       Amendment, and Development Agreement Amendment Request
       Ms. Jastremsky said staff requested the Council continue the proposed Land
       Use Map amendment and Zoning Map amendment to May 6, 2025.

       Councilmember Vawdrey moved to continue the item to May 6, 2025.
       Councilmember T. Lowery seconded the motion.

       A roll call vote was taken. The motion passed unanimously.
                                        Yes No Absent
        Councilmember Green              X
        Councilmember Johnson            X
        Councilmember T. Lowery          X
        Councilmember F. Lowry           X
        Councilmember Vawdrey            X

10.     Action Items
10.a    Resolution #25-17 appointing three members of the Administrative
        Control Board for the Traverse Ridge Special Service District

        Councilmember Vawdrey moved to appoint Mark Vincent and Paul
        Kearsley to four-year terms on the Traverse Ridge Special Service
        District Control Board, and appoint James Hether to a two-year term
        on the Control Board. Councilmember Johnson seconded the motion.

        Councilmember Vawdrey thanked the gentlemen for stepping up and getting
        involved in their community.

       A roll call vote was taken. The motion passed unanimously.
                                       Yes No Absent
       Councilmember Green              X
       Councilmember Johnson            X
       Councilmember T. Lowery          X
       Councilmember F. Lowry           X
       Councilmember Vawdrey            X

Council/Manager Reports (continued from Study Session)
  • City Recorder Nicole Smedley presented a proposed change in procedure for
     winter burials at the cemetery. She explained that the current practice is to

                                                                         7|Page
          leave the burial plot as exposed dirt during the winter months and to lay sod
          in the spring, typically in April. Ms. Smedley stated that staff proposed
          temporarily covering winter burial sites with artificial grass until sod becomes
          available in the spring. She requested feedback from the Council regarding the
          proposal.

          Councilmember Vawdrey commented that artificial grass would likely be more
          visually appealing than exposed dirt and inquired about practices in other
          cities. Ms. Smedley responded that some cities attempt to cut, preserve, and
          relay sod during the winter, though this is not always practical. She also noted
          that Draper City does not have a full-time staff member assigned solely to
          cemetery operations; rather, responsibilities are divided among Public Works
          and Parks employees. She added that the artificial grass would be reusable.

          Parks and Recreation Director Rhett Ogden stated that the City experienced
          an unusually high number of winter burials during the 2024–2025 season. A
          majority of the City Council appeared to support the proposed change.

      •   Ms. Smedley reported Salt Lake County asked for Draper City Hall to be a vote
          center for the 2025 election. The Council and staff discussed moving the
          Council meeting scheduled for August 5 to July 29 to accommodate early
          voting.

      •   Ms. Challburg said she was approached by a company desiring to hold a
          Criterium bike race during Draper Days (July 12, 2025, 8 am to 2 pm). She
          said a couple police officers may be needed to block roads. Mayor Walker
          asked that the organizing company cover the cost of the officers. A majority
          of the Council indicated support.

      •   In response to a question from Councilmember Vawdrey regarding winter
          burials, Public Works Director Scott Cooley stated that the Public Works
          Department does not have a sod cutter and currently only has equipment
          available for excavation. Councilmember Vawdrey suggested selecting an
          artificial turf that is not too green when used to cover winter burial sites.

11.       Adjournment
          Councilmember T. Lowery moved to adjourn the meeting.
          Councilmember Johnson seconded the motion, which passed by
          unanimous vote.

                                                                                 8|Page
The meeting adjourned at 8:13 pm.




                                    9|Page
