MEMO
To: Planning Commission
From: Jennifer Jastremsky, AICP
Date: 2025-04-24
Re: Action Item: Windsor Mill Townhomes Site Plan Approval Extension Request
(Administrative Action)


Comments:


On April 25, 2024, the Planning Commission granted approval of a site plan application
for the Windsor Mill Townhomes, located at approximately 11450 South 820 West. The
application number is 2023-0239-SP. Draper City Municipal Code (DCMC) Section 9-5-
090(J) states the following regarding site plan extensions:



Expiration: Failure to obtain a land disturbance permit within one year of approval of any site
plan shall void the prior site plan approval. Prior to the expiration of the one-year period, an
applicant may submit a written request to the community development department for a site
plan extension of up to six (6) months. Approval of this extension may only be granted by the
zoning administrator or planning commission, whichever is the approval authority outlined in
this section, provided the applicant can meet the requirements for extension under section 9-5-
030 and demonstrate substantial action toward obtaining a land disturbance permit.



DCMC Section 9-5-030(J) sets the standards for extensions of time:



Extensions Of Time: Unless otherwise prohibited, upon written request and for good cause
shown, any decision making body or official having authority to grant approval of an
application may, without any notice or hearing, grant extensions of any time limit imposed by
this title on such application, its approval, or the applicant, provided a written request for such
extension has been received by the community development department prior to the date of
expiration, or provided the city staff or planning commission has initiated an extension prior to
the date of expiration. The total period of time granted by any such extension or extensions
shall not exceed half the length of the original time period.
Since the 2024 approval, the applicant has been working to secure a buyer for the project,
and is currently working to secure financing. All conditions of approval from the April 25,
2024 approval have been addressed. A copy of the staff report is provided for
convenience. Also attached is the request letter from the applicant. The request letter
was received on April 16, 2025, prior to the expiration.



If approved, the site plan approval will be valid through October 25, 2025.



Sample Motion for Approval – I move that we approve the site plan extension, as requested
by David Jenkins, representing Olsen and Associates, application 2023-0239-SP, based on
the finding below and the request by the applicant:



  1. That the applicant has shown good cause to obtain an extension and that
     substantial action has occurred towards obtaining a land disturbance permit.



Sample Motion for Denial – I move that we deny site plan extension, as requested by David
Jenkins, representing Olsen and Associates, application 2023-0239-SP, based on the
finding below and the request by the applicant:



  1. That the applicant has not shown good cause to obtain an extension and that
     substantial action has not occurred towards obtaining a land disturbance permit.


ATTACHMENTS:

Windsor MIll Townhomes Site Plan Extension Request Letter.pdf
ATTACHMENTS:

Windsor Mill TH Site Staff Report -PC 4-25-24 Combined.pdf
