MEMO
To: Planning Commission
From: Todd Taylor
Date: 2025-12-11
Re: Public Hearing: City Initiated Geologic Hazards Ordinance Text Amendment
(Legislative Item)


Comments:

This application is a request for approval of a Text Amendment to portions of Draper City
Municipal Code (DCMC) Titles 9, 10, 17 and 18. The purpose of the request is to update
the text of the Geologic Hazards Ordinance and move it from Title 9, Land Use and
Development Regulations, to Title 10, Building Regulations. Additionally, amendments to
Title 17, Land Development, will clarify a standard, and amendments to Title 18, Land
Disturbance, will update cross-references. Please note that Titles 10 and 18 are not within
the Planning Commission’s authority, but the text amendments have been included to
show all of the changes that are being proposed.

Findings for Approval:
  1. The proposed amendment is consistent with goals, objectives and policies of the
     City's General Plan;
  2. The proposed amendment is appropriate given the context of the request and there
     is sufficient justification for a modification to the development codes;
  3. The proposed amendment will not create a conflict with any other section or part of
     the development codes or the General Plan;
  4. The potential effects of the proposed amendment have been evaluated and are
     determined not to be detrimental to public health, safety, or welfare and represents
     an overall community benefit; and
  5. The proposed text amendment implements best current, professional practices of
     urban planning, design, and engineering practices.

Findings for Denial:
  1. The proposed amendment is not consistent with goals, objectives and policies of
     the City's General Plan;
  2. The proposed amendment is not appropriate given the context of the request and
     there is not sufficient justification for a modification to the development codes;
  3. The proposed amendment could create a conflict with another section or part of the
     development codes or the General Plan; and
  4. The potential effects of the proposed amendment have been determined to be
     detrimental to public health, safety, or welfare or do not represent an overall
     community benefit.
  5. The proposed text amendment is not consistent with best current, professional
     practices of urban planning, design, and engineering practices.




ATTACHMENTS:

City Initiated Geologic Hazards Ordinance Staff Report_Finalized.pdf
