                           Development Review Committee
                                1020 East Pioneer Road
                                  Draper, UT 84020
                                      October 9, 2025

To:             Draper City Planning Commission
                Business Date: October 23, 2025

From:           Development Review Committee

Prepared By: Jennifer Jastremsky, AICP, Community Development Director / Zoning
             Administrator
             Planning Division
             Community Development Department
             801-576-6328, jennifer.jastremsky@draperutah.gov

Re:     Pond Lane – Plat Amendment Request
        Application No.: 2025-0082-SUB
        Applicant:        Garrett Daw, representing Trent and Candice Eyre
        Project Location: 291 East Pond Ln
        Current Zoning: RA2 (Residential Agricultural) Zone
        Acreage:          0.54 Acres (Approximately 23,608 ft2)
        Request:          Request for approval of a Plat Amendment in the RA2 zone in
                          order to modify the building setback from the western property
                          line from 20-feet minimum to 12-feet minimum.



BACKGROUND AND SUMMARY
This application is a request for approval of a Plat Amendment for approximately 0.54
acres located on the west side of 300 East, at approximately 291 East Pond Ln (Exhibit B &
C). The property is currently zoned RA2. The applicant is requesting that a Plat Amendment
be approved to allow for a modification to the building setback from the western property
line from 20-feet minimum to 12-feet minimum.

The property is Lot 2 in the Pond Lane Subdivision. This subdivision was recorded in 2017
and includes three lots. A house was built on the property in 2022, and is subject to a
settlement agreement between the property owners located on Pond Lane and Draper
City. The original recorded subdivision plat (Exhibit F) showed setbacks that did not comply
with Draper City Municipal Code (DCMC) standards at the time of the plat recording and at
the time of building permit submittal for homes on Lots 2 and 3. The setback from Pond



Pond Lane                                                         App. # 2025-0082-SUB
Plat Amendment Request                       1
Lane that was shown on the recorded plat was less than that required by DCMC. Draper
City entered into a settlement agreement that allowed construction of homes on Lots 2 and
3, subject to the recorded plat setbacks and not the setbacks listed in DCMC (Exhibit H).

In 2025 the applicant, and property owner of Lot 2, applied for a building permit to
construct an addition onto the home. The addition is on the west side of the home and is
proposed to be approximately 13-feet from the side property line to the west. The DCMC
required setback from a side property line is 12-feet. The setback shown on the recorded
plat, and required under the settlement agreement, is 20-feet.

The applicant has worked with the City to amend the settlement agreement (Exhibit I). The
City approved this amendment on October 1, 2025. The amendment to the settlement
agreement allows a 12-foot setback on the west property line for Lot 2. The applicant is
now proposing to amend the subdivision plat to show the 12-foot setback on the
Subdivision Plat as outlined in the amended agreement.



ANALYSIS

General Plan and Zoning.

 Table 1                 General Plan and Zoning Designations                         Exhibit
 Existing Land Use       Residential Medium Density                                   Exhibit D
 Current Zoning          RA2                                                          Exhibit E
 Proposed Use
 Adjacent Zoning
    East                 R3 (Single Family Residential, 13,000 sq ft lot
                         minimum)
     West                RA2
     North               RA2
     South               RA2

The Residential Medium Density land use designation is characterized as follows:




Pond Lane                                                             App. # 2025-0082-SUB
Plat Amendment Request                           2
According to DCMC Section 9-8-020 the purpose of the RA2 zone is to “foster low density
development with little impact on its surroundings and municipal services; to generally
preserve the character of the City’s semi-rural areas; and to promote and preserve
conditions favorable to large-lot family life, including the keeping of limited numbers of
animals and fowl. The predominant use in these zones is intended to be detached single-
family dwellings, protected from encroachment by commercial and industrial uses.”

Subdivision Layout. The proposed subdivision plat can be found as Exhibit G of this report.
No new lots will be created with the plat, nor will any property lines be adjusted. The
building setback along the western property line will be modified from 20-feet to 12-feet.
This will not impact the existing 7-foot-wide public utility easement along the western
property line. The plat will also not modify the setback requirements from any other
property line, including from Pond Lane.

Criteria For Approval.
The grounds for review and potential approval of a subdivision plat amendment request is
found in Section 17-9-040 of the DCMC. This section depicts the standard of review for such
requests as:

        The Planning Commission may approve the vacation or amendment of a plat if the



Pond Lane                                                         App. # 2025-0082-SUB
Plat Amendment Request                       3
         Planning Commission finds that there is good cause for the vacation or amendment,
         and no public street or municipal utility easement has been vacated or amended.


REVIEWS

Planning Division Review. The Draper City Planning Division has completed their review of
the Plat Amendment submission. Comments from this division, if any, can be found in
Exhibit A.

Engineering and Public Works Divisions Review. The Draper City Engineering and Public
Works Divisions have completed their reviews of the Plat Amendment submission.
Comments from these divisions, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Building Division Review. The Draper City Building Division has completed their review of
the Plat Amendment submission. Comments from this division, if any, can be found in
Exhibit A.

Fire Division Review. The Draper City Fire Marshal has completed his review of the Plat
Amendment submission. Comments from this division, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Legal Division Review. The Draper City Attorney has completed his review of the Plat
Amendment submission. Comments from this division, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Noticing. Notice has been properly issued in the manner outlined in the City and State
Codes.



STAFF RECOMMENDATION
Staff recommends that the Planning Commission review the request based on the findings
listed below and the criteria for approval, or denial as listed within the staff report. The
Planning Commission should also review the request, hear from the applicant, and receive
public comment prior to making a decision.

If the Planning Commission decides to approve the request, staff notes that the applicant is
required to also comply with the following requirements pertaining to the plat and
development within the subdivision:

         1.     That all requirements of the Draper City Engineering, Public Works, Building,
                Planning, and Fire Divisions are satisfied throughout the development of the
                site and the construction of all buildings on the site, including permitting.
         2.     That the Amendment to the Site Plan Approval and Wavier Agreement be
                fully executed prior to obtaining required signatures from the City on the



Pond Lane                                                          App. # 2025-0082-SUB
Plat Amendment Request                         4
                Final Mylar Plat and that the property and any construction on the site
                comply with the Site Plan Approval and Waiver Agreement, as amended.
        3.      If the subdivision plat amendment is not recorded within one (1) year from
                the date of approval or construction of the required landscaping and
                infrastructure has not commenced, such approval shall be null and void.
                This time period may be extended by the Planning Commission for up to one
                additional six (6) month period for good cause shown. The subdivider must
                petition in writing for an extension prior to the expiration of the original one
                (1) year. See DCMC Section 17-9-070.



MODEL MOTIONS AND FINDINGS
Sample Motion for Approval – I move that we approve the Plat Amendment, as requested
by Garrett Daw, representing Trent and Candice Eyre for Pond Lane Plat Amendment,
application 2025-0082-SUB, based on the following findings for approval and subject to the
requirements listed in the Staff Report dated October 9, 2025.

Findings for Approval:

        1.      There is good cause for the vacation or amendment, and no public street or
                municipal utility easement has been vacated or amended.

Sample Motion for Modified Approval– I move that we approve the Plat Amendment, as
requested by Garrett Daw, representing Trent and Candice Eyre for Pond Lane Plat
Amendment, application 2025-0082-SUB, based on the findings for approval and subject to
the requirements listed in the Staff Report dated October 9, 2025 and as modified by the
following additional findings :

        1.      (List any additional findings …)




Pond Lane                                                            App. # 2025-0082-SUB
Plat Amendment Request                             5
                                    EXHIBIT A
                               DEPARTMENT REVIEWS

REVIEWS ARE NOT MEANT TO BE AN ALL INCLUSIVE LIST OF POSSIBLE COMMENTS OR
CONDITIONS.



Planning Division Review.

       1. No additional comment provided

Engineering and Public Works Divisions Review.

       1. No additional comment provided

Building Division Review.

       1. No additional comment provided.

Fire Department Review.

       1. No additional comment provided.

Legal Division Review.

       1. No additional comment provided.
  EXHIBIT B
VICINITY MAP
 EXHIBIT C
AERIAL MAP
  EXHIBIT D
LAND USE MAP
 EXHIBIT E
ZONING MAP
        EXHIBIT F
RECORDED SUBDIVISION PLAT
       EXHIBIT G
PROPOSED SUBDIVISION PLAT
     EXHIBIT H
ORIGINAL AGREEMENT
      EXHIBIT I
AMENDMENED AGREEMENT
