MINUTES OF THE DRAPER CITY COUNCIL MEETING HELD ON TUESDAY, MAY 20,
2025, IN THE DRAPER CITY COUNCIL CHAMBERS, 1020 EAST PIONEER ROAD,
DRAPER, UTAH

PRESENT:       Mayor Pro Tem Mike Green, Councilmembers Bryn Heather Johnson,
               Fred Lowry, and Marsha Vawdrey
EXCUSED: Mayor Troy K. Walker, Councilmember Tasha Lowery
STAFF:         Mike Barker, City Manager; Kellie Challburg, Assistant City Manager;
               Scott Cooley, City Engineer and Public Works Director; Spencer
               DuShane, Assistant City Attorney; Rich Ferguson, Chief of Police; Jennifer
               Jastremsky, Community Development Director; Malena Murray, Human
               Resources Director; Rhett Ogden, Parks and Recreation Director; Linda
               Peterson, Communications Director; Nicole Smedley, City Recorder;
               Clint Smith, Fire Chief; Jake Sorensen, Network Manager; Travis DeJong,
               Business License Official; Todd Taylor, Planner; Todd Draper, Planning
               Manager; and John Vuyk, Finance Director
______________________________________________________________________________________

Study Session

      OPMA/Ethics Training
      City Attorney Traci Gundersen provided annual Open and Public Meetings Act
      (OPMA) training.

      Council/Manager Reports
      Councilmember F. Lowry said residents had complained of cars parked on the
      street in neighborhoods near Soccer City. Community Development Director
      Jennifer Jastremsky said a new parking study may be needed to ensure Soccer
      City had adequate parking. She said staff would send a letter requesting an
      updated study.

      Mayor Pro Tem Green said he would like the payment gateway for business
      licensing to provide a smoother process. The Council and staff discussed
      difficulties with the process, and staff indicated they would look at options.

Business Session

                                                                               1|Page
        Draper City Council DRAFT Meeting Minutes – May 20, 2025
1.    Call to Order by Mayor Pro Tem Green

2.    Pledge of Allegiance

3.    Recognition – Acknowledgement of Peer Court Graduates
      Continued to June 3, 2025 City Council Meeting

4.    Recognition – Acknowledgement of Miss Draper 2025 Royalty
      Mayor Pro Tem Green recognized the Miss Draper Program Director Andrea
      Page, and thanked all those involved in the Miss Draper Program. He
      introduced Miss Draper 2025 Cameron Stewart, and Royalty Attendants Skylar
      Zamalloa, Myla Taylor, and Kianna Conrad. The Council took the opportunity
      for photographs.

5.    Public Comments
      There were no public comments.

6.    Consent Items
6.a   Approval of the May 6, 2025 City Council Meeting Minutes
6.b   Approval of Resolution #25-23 appointing Mark Vincent and Oliver
      Herrera Schuster to fill vacancies on the Draper City Special Event Arena
      Committee

      Councilmember Vawdrey moved to approve the Consent Items.
      Councilmember F. Lowry seconded the motion.

      A roll call vote was taken. The motion passed unanimously.
                                       Yes No Absent
      Councilmember Green               X
      Councilmember Johnson             X
      Councilmember T. Lowery                        X
      Councilmember F. Lowry            X
      Councilmember Vawdrey             X

7.    Items for Council Consideration
7.a   Public Hearing: Providing Local Consent for an Off-Premises Beer Alcohol
      Retailer License for Draper Hotel Holdings LLC dba Homewood Suites
      Business License Official Travis DeJong presented a request for local consent
      for an Off-Premises Beer Retailer License for Homewood Suites located at 437
                                                                          2|Page
      East 12300 South. He said the application met all distance requirements.
      Draper currently has 24 out of a maximum 49 active off-premises alcohol
      licenses issued. Mr. DeJong said he had counted 45 active off-premises alcohol
      licenses issued to similar hotel entities in the State. Councilmember Johnson
      asked the percentage of hotels in the State currently issued off-premises
      alcohol licenses, and Mr. DeJong said he did not know how many hotels were
      in the State.

      Tanner Lenart, attorney for the applicant, said the State of Utah had
      approximately 80 hotels with liquor licenses.

      Mayor Pro Tem Green opened a public hearing, and closed the public
      hearing seeing no one come forward.

      Councilmember F. Lowry moved to provide local consent for an Off-
      Premises Beer Retailer License for Draper Hotel Holdings LLC dba
      Homewood Suites. Councilmember Johnson seconded the motion.

      A roll call vote was taken. The motion passed unanimously.
                                       Yes No Absent
      Councilmember Green               X
      Councilmember Johnson             X
      Councilmember T. Lowery                        X
      Councilmember F. Lowry            X
      Councilmember Vawdrey             X

7.b   Public Hearing: Fiscal Year 2025-2026 Tentative Budget
      Finance Director John Vuyk presented the FY 2025-2026 Tentative Budget, with
      budgeted General Fund revenue totaling $52,188,900. Mr. Vuyk listed new
      staff positions included in the Tentative Budget. He explained that with
      elimination of the general obligation (GO) bond in FY2026, residents would see
      a property tax rate decrease ($21.43 per year property tax decrease for
      median valued home).

      Mr. Vuyk explained the Council could consider increasing the tax rate for
      FY2026 to a rate equal to that adopted in FY2025, which would result in an
      increase to the general operations of the City of $520,000. Such an increase
      would be net neutral to residents compared to FY2025 (not taking individual
      property valuation changes into account). Mr. Vuyk said adoption of the

                                                                           3|Page
      budget was tentatively scheduled for June 3, 2025. If a rate change was
      proposed, a Truth in Taxation hearing would need to be scheduled.

      Mr. Vuyk showed a water rate history, and said the FY2026 Tentative Budget
      included a proposed increase to the residential variable water rate of 8%, and
      an increase of 15% to the base rate, as well as an increase in the commercial
      water rate. He said operating expenses had exceeded operating revenues in
      the Water Fund since FY2022, and said the proposed rate increase was
      intended to move the Water Fund balance toward a positive operating
      balance. Mr. Vuyk explained that a rate increase tended to result in a reduction
      in use.

      Mayor Pro Tem Green opened a public hearing, and closed the public
      hearing seeing no one come forward.

7.c   Public Hearing: Ordinance #1651 amending the text of the Land Use and
      Development Code of the Draper City Municipal Code regarding new
      districts, permitted uses, and development standards in the Draper
      Pointe Mixed Use Commercial Special District Zone
      Todd Taylor, Planner, showed the boundaries of the Draper Pointe Mixed Use
      Commercial Special District Zone, highlighting the subject property that would
      be impacted by the proposed amendment (383 West 13490 South). He said
      the Planning Commission reviewed the request at their April 24, 2025 meeting
      and recommended approval (5-0) with the following modifications:

         1. That the following proposed uses be removed from the permitted uses:
            Limited Manufacturing, General Printing, and Limited Wholesale and
            Warehousing uses;
         2. That the proposed text and exhibits be modified to not include “limited
            manufacturing” in the name of the new district.

      Mr. Taylor said proposed Ordinance #1651 reflected the changes
      recommended by the Planning Commission. The following permitted uses
      would be added to the zone with approval of the proposed ordinance:
      business equipment rental and supplies; cashing services; grooming service;
      medical or dental laboratory; office, warehouse; repair service; research
      service; secondhand or thrift store, small; tattoo establishment;
      trade/vocational school; veterinary service.



                                                                            4|Page
      Mr. Taylor highlighted proposed amendments to development standards.
      Responding to a question from Councilmember Johnson, Ms. Jastremsky
      explained that the office warehouse use definition required at least 30% office
      space and allowed the rest of the building to be warehousing use. She said the
      limited wholesale and warehousing use not included in the ordinance as
      recommended by the Planning Commission was more of a distribution-type
      center.

      Joe Johnson, applicant, said the proposed project had changed as they had
      worked with City staff over the last year and a half. He said he believed the
      location was a great spot for businesses to thrive in Draper City. Mr. Johnson
      said he felt good about moving forward within proposed constraints.

      Mayor Pro Tem Green opened a public hearing, and closed the public
      hearing seeing no one come forward.

      Councilmember F. Lowry moved to approve Ordinance #1651 with the
      changes recommended by the Planning Commission. Councilmember
      Johnson seconded the motion.

      A roll call vote was taken. The motion passed unanimously.
                                       Yes No Absent
      Councilmember Green               X
      Councilmember Johnson             X
      Councilmember T. Lowery                        X
      Councilmember F. Lowry            X
      Councilmember Vawdrey             X

7.d   Public Hearing: Ordinance #1652 amending the official Zoning Map of
      Draper City for approximately 0.85 acres of property from CBP (business/
      manufacturing park) to M1 (light manufacturing) located at
      approximately 13488 South 200 West within Draper City otherwise
      known as the Granite Construction Zoning Map Amendment
      Planning Manager Todd Draper showed the subject property on a map, and
      explained the request for rezone from CBP to M1. Mr. Draper said the
      applicant desired to combine the three parcels for construction sales and
      service use, under a separate application. He said the Planning Commission
      reviewed the application and forwarded a positive recommendation.



                                                                           5|Page
      Tina Mudd with Granite Construction thanked staff for their time, and said she
      was available to answer any questions.

      Mayor Pro Tem Green opened a public hearing, and closed the public
      hearing seeing no one come forward.

      Councilmember Vawdrey moved to approve                      Ordinance     #1652.
      Councilmember Johnson seconded the motion.

      A roll call vote was taken. The motion passed unanimously.
                                       Yes No Absent
      Councilmember Green               X
      Councilmember Johnson             X
      Councilmember T. Lowery                        X
      Councilmember F. Lowry            X
      Councilmember Vawdrey             X

8.    Action Items
8.a   Ordinance #1653 amending Title 7-5 of the Draper City Municipal Code to
      align with Utah State Code Section 11-46-303 regarding the management
      and exemption of community cats
      City Attorney Traci Gunderson said proposed amendments to Title 7-5 were
      drafted to align City Code with the Utah Animal Welfare Act, specifically relating
      to community cats. Ms. Gunderson explained proposed amendments,
      including definitions of community cat, community cat caretaker, community
      cat colony, and community cat program. She shared concern regarding
      potential impact on public safety if TNR programs were not actively managed
      in community cat colonies, and spoke of potential nuisance complaints and
      potential opposition from bird enthusiasts.

      Responding to a question from Councilmember Johnson, Ms. Gunderson said
      the proposed amendments tried to be compliant with the State without
      actively promoting or encouraging residents to create community cat colonies.

      Councilmember Johnson moved to approve                      Ordinance     #1653.
      Councilmember Vawdrey seconded the motion.

      A roll call vote was taken. The motion passed unanimously.
                                       Yes No Absent

                                                                              6|Page
      Councilmember Green              X
      Councilmember Johnson            X
      Councilmember T. Lowery                         X
      Councilmember F. Lowry           X
      Councilmember Vawdrey            X

Councilmember F. Lowry made a motion to move to a meeting of the
Community Reinvestment Agency, with intent to return to regular Council
meeting. Councilmember Johnson seconded the motion, which passed by
unanimous vote (4-0).

The Council returned to regular meeting at 8:00 pm.

9.   Adjournment
     Councilmember Johnson moved to adjourn the meeting. The motion
     passed unanimously (4-0).

     The meeting adjourned at 8:01 pm.




                                                               7|Page
