MEMO
To: Planning Commission
From: Nick Whittaker
Date: 2025-03-27
Re: Public Hearing: Fratto Farms Zoning Map Amendment and Land Use Map Amendment
Request (Legislative Item)


Comments:

These applications are requests for approval of a Land Use Map Amendment to change
the current land use designation from Residential Medium Density to Residential High
Density and a Zoning Map Amendment to change the current zoning designation from
RA2 (Residential Agricultural, 20,000 ft² min. lot size) to RM2 (Multiple-Family Residential,
12 dwelling units per acre maximum) for approximately 2.03 acres located on the north
side of 12200 S. at approximately 791 E. 12200 S. The applicant is requesting that the
changes be approved so that the applicant can develop up to 24 residential dwelling units
on the subject property.


Land Use Amendment

Findings for Approval:

  1. The proposed land use map amendment is consistent with goals, objectives, and
     policies of the city's general plan.
  2. The proposed land use map amendment is harmonious with the overall character
     of existing development in the vicinity of the subject property.
  3. The proposed land use map amendment will not adversely affect adjacent property.
  4. There are adequate facilities and services intended to serve the subject property,
     including, but not limited to, roadways, parks and recreation facilities, police and fire
     protection, schools, stormwater drainage systems, water supplies, and wastewater
     and refuse collection.
  5. The proposed land use map amendment complies with DCMC Section 9-2-020(F).
  6. The legislative body may adopt any amendment to the general plan land use map
     that the legislative body considers appropriate.




Findings for Denial:
  1. The proposed land use map amendment is not consistent with goals, objectives,
     and policies of the city's general plan.
  2. The proposed land use map amendment is not harmonious with the overall
     character of existing development in the vicinity of the subject property.
  3. The proposed land use map amendment will adversely affect adjacent property.
  4. There are not adequate facilities and services intended to serve the subject
     property, including, but not limited to, roadways, parks and recreation facilities,
     police and fire protection, schools, stormwater drainage systems, water supplies,
     and wastewater and refuse collection.
  5. The proposed land use map amendment does not comply with DCMC Section 9-2-
     020(F).
  6. The legislative body may reject any amendment to the general plan land use map
     that the legislative body considers appropriate.




Zoning Map Amendment


Findings for Approval:

  1. The proposed zoning map amendment is consistent with goals, objectives, and
     policies of the city's general plan.
  2. The proposed zoning map amendment is compatible with the subject properties
     existing Land Use Designation and harmonious with the overall character of existing
     development in the vicinity of the subject property.
  3. The proposed zoning map amendment will not adversely affect adjacent property.
  4. There are adequate facilities and services intended to serve the subject property,
     including, but not limited to, roadways, parks and recreation facilities, police and fire
     protection, schools, stormwater drainage systems, water supplies, and wastewater
     and refuse collection.




Findings for Denial:


  1. The proposed zoning map amendment is not consistent with goals, objectives, and
     policies of the city's general plan.
  2. The proposed zoning map amendment is not compatible with the subject properties
     existing Land Use Designation and is not harmonious with the overall character of
     existing development in the vicinity of the subject property.
  3. The proposed zoning map amendment will adversely affect adjacent property.
  4. There are not adequate facilities and services intended to serve the subject
     property, including, but not limited to, roadways, parks and recreation facilities,
     police and fire protection, schools, stormwater drainage systems, water supplies,
     and wastewater and refuse collection.


ATTACHMENTS:

Fratto farms amendments staff report.pdf
