MEMO
To: Planning Commission
From: Maryann Pickering, AICP
Date: 2025-06-12
Re: Public Hearing: Bangerter Crossing II Fairfield Inn Site Plan Request (Administrative
Action)


Comments:


This application is a request for approval of a Site Plan for approximately 2.37 acres
located on the south side of Bangerter Highway, at approximately 13678 S. 100 East. The
property is currently zoned CO2 (Professional Office) Zone. The applicant is requesting
that a Site Plan be approved to allow for the development of the currently vacant site as a
hotel. The subject property is currently part of the Bangerter Crossing development and
will be the second hotel developed in this development area. Bangerter Crossing has
been developed in several phases since 2006, and the subject parcel is part of the final
development phase.




Findings for Approval:

  1. The site plan reflects the full development of the property.
  2. The site plan when in compliance with the included conditions will conform to
     applicable standards set forth in ordinance, including but not limited to, building
     heights, setbacks, access points, parking, landscaping, and building materials.
  3. When in compliance with the included conditions, the proposed development plans
     meet the intent, goals, and objectives of the general plan and the purpose of the
     CO2 zoning district in which the site is located.
  4. The public facilities and services in the area are adequate to support the subject
     development, as required by engineering standards and specifications.
  5. The proposed development plans will comply with the engineering standards found
     in Titles 7, 8, 11, 12, 16, and 18 of the DCMC, including traffic, storm water drainage,
     and utilities concerns.
  6. The proposed project complies with the Master Development Agreement for
     Bangerter Crossing II Fairfield Inn and Suites, recorded on July 29, 2022.

Findings for Denial:
  1. The proposed site plan does not conform to applicable standards set forth in
     ordinance, including but not limited to, building heights, setbacks, access points,
     parking, landscaping, and building materials.
  2. The proposed development plans do not meet the intent, goals, and objectives of
     the general plan or the purpose of the CN zoning district in which the site is located.
  3. The proposed development plans do not comply with one or more of the
     engineering standards found in Titles 7, 8, 11, 12, 16, and 18 of the DCMC.


ATTACHMENTS:

PC Report (Fairfield Inn).pdf
