                                 Development Review Committee
                                     1020 East Pioneer Road
                                       Draper, UT 84020
                                       December 10, 2025

To:               Draper City Planning Commission
                  Business Date: December 18, 2025

From:             Development Review Committee

Prepared By: Todd A. Draper, AICP, Planning Manager
             Planning Division
             Community Development Department
             801-576-6335, todd.draper@draperutah.gov

Re:      T-Mobile Steep Mountain Park Amended – Conditional Use Permit Request
         Application No.: 2025-0275-USE
         Applicant:        Declan Murphy, representing Coal Creek Consulting and T-Mobile
         Project Location: approximately 351 E. Steep Mountain Dr.
         Current Zoning: OS (Open Space/Parks) Zone
         Acreage:          Approximately 9.51 acres (Approximately 414,256 ft2)
         Request:          Request for approval of a Conditional Use Permit in the OS zone
                           regarding amendments to details and conditions of the previous
                           approval for the wireless telecommunications facility installation.



BACKGROUND AND SUMMARY
This application is a request for approval of a Conditional Use Permit for approximately
9.51 acres located within Steep Mountain Park, east of Red Leaf Dr., west of Parowan Way,
and north of Steep Mountain Dr. at approximately 351 E. Steep Mountain Dr. (Exhibit B &
C). The property is currently zoned OS. The applicant is requesting that amendments to the
details and conditions of approval for the wireless telecommunications facility installation
be approved to allow for changes to the stealth concealment type for the existing wireless
telecommunications installation for T-Mobile.

The facility was constructed in 2017 and consisted of a structure designed to resemble and
function as a light pole with the antennas concealed inside the pole. In 2019 a second
carrier (Verizon) was approved to co-locate at a lower elevation on the tower. Minor
upgrades to the T-Mobile installation were approved in 2022 under a separate Permitted
Use Permit, however that permit expired without the upgrades being implemented.



T-Mobile Steep Mountain Park                                         App. # «JS_File_Number»
Conditional Use Permit Request                 1
ANALYSIS
General Plan and Zoning.

 Table 1                    General Plan and Zoning Designations                    Exhibit
 Existing Land Use          Open Space/Parks                                        Exhibit D
 Current Zoning             OS                                                      Exhibit E
 Proposed Use               Stealth Wireless Facility
 Adjacent Zoning
     East                   R3 (Single-Family Residential)
     West                   R3
     North                  R3
     South                  R3

The Open Space/Parks land use designation is characterized as follows:




According to Draper City Municipal Code (DCMC) Section 9-8-020 the purpose of the OS
zone is to “recognize on the official zoning map areas which are open and generally
undevelopable due to their sensitive environmental nature and/or the unavailability of
adequate public facilities, such as conservation areas and national forest land.”

Site Plan Layout. The site plan drawings are included as Exhibit F. The existing pole is
located towards the southern end of the park and adjacent to an outdoor basketball court.
The existing equipment building is located nearby as an addition to the restroom facilities
at the park. No changes to the general site layout are being proposed. The existing



T-Mobile Steep Mountain Park                                         App. # «JS_File_Number»
Conditional Use Permit Request                     2
monopole is 40 feet tall and the existing antennas are located inside a canister. The co-
location carrier located lower on the pole is not located inside a canister and but was
required to paint their antennas black to match the pole as allowed under the standards
for stealth design.

The elevation drawings (Exhibit G) show the proposed changes to the T-Mobile installation.
The existing antennas and the canister enclosure would be removed from the top of the
pole and a new compact antenna array and new antennas would be installed at the top of
the pole. The new array and antennas would not be located inside of an enclosure. The
new installation would increase the overall height of the pole by ten feet (10’) and the total
overall height by two feet (2’) to forty-two feet (42’). As this change represents a change to
the approved construction and conditions of the original approval for the change to the
proposed concealment type, a new review and approval by the City is necessary.
Additionally, as the proposed change has been determined to have a visual impact, a
conditional use permit is required under DCMC subsection 9-41-050(B)(2).

The applicant has proposed to paint the antennas but did not provide specific details as to
the color they would be painted (Exhibit H). Color schemes that make an antenna less
noticeable are included in DCMC subsection 9-41-050(B)(1)(c) as a potential method for
making an antenna design stealth. As no reference to painting or paint color is included on
the schematic plans provided to staff (Exhibits F and G) a condition requiring a paint color
that matches the color of the pole has been included in the recommended conditions
section of this report. Painting the antenna to match with the pole color will help to
mitigate the additional visual impacts created by the additional height and removal of the
canister that currently screens the antennas from view.

The applicant’s responses and statements regarding the proposed changes to the
installation and Conditional Use Permit criteria can be found in Exhibit H.

Landscaping. No changes to the existing landscaping are proposed.

Lighting. No changes to the existing approved lighting are proposed.

Fencing. There was no fencing associated with the original approval and no changes to any
existing fencing on site are proposed.

Previous Conditions of Approval. The following conditions of approval for the Wireless
Telecommunications Facility were imposed with the approval from October 6, 2015:

         1.       That an electrical permit is needed for the tower.
         2.       That a building permit is needed for the restroom expansion.

The following condition of approval was included with the approval dated February 22,



T-Mobile Steep Mountain Park                                         App. # «JS_File_Number»
Conditional Use Permit Request                  3
2022:

         1.       The applicant shall obtain all applicable permits from Draper City Fire, the
                  Engineering Division, and the Building Division for this installation.

Criteria For Approval.
The criteria for review and potential approval of a conditional use permit request are found
in Section 9-5-080(E) of the DCMC. This section depicts the standard of review for such
requests as:

         E. Approval Standards: The standards of this subsection shall apply to the issuance
             of a conditional use permit:
          1. A conditional use permit may be issued for a use to be located within a zone
             where the particular conditional use is allowed by the use regulations of the
             zone.
          2. Reasonable conditions may be imposed as necessary to substantially mitigate
             reasonably anticipated detrimental effects of the proposed use. These
             conditions may include conditions concerning use, construction, character,
             location, landscaping, screening, parking, hours of operation, and other matters
             relating to the purposes and objectives of this section. Such conditions shall be
             expressly set forth in the motion authorizing the conditional use permit.
          3. If the reasonably anticipated detrimental effects of a proposed conditional use
             cannot be substantially mitigated by the imposition of reasonable conditions to
             achieve compliance with applicable standards, the conditional use may be
             denied.
          4. The following factors shall be reviewed and considered in determining whether a
             conditional use permit application should be approved, approved with
             conditions, or denied because reasonable conditions cannot be imposed to
             achieve compliance with applicable standards:
               a. The harmony and compliance of the proposed use with the objectives and
                  requirements of the city's general plan and this title;
               b. The suitability of the specific property for the proposed use;
               c. Whether the proposed use or facility may be injurious to potential or existing
                  development in the vicinity;
               d. The economic impact of the proposed facility or use on the surrounding
                  area;
               e. The aesthetic impact of the proposed facility or use on the surrounding area;
               f. The safeguards proposed or provided to ensure adequate utilities,
                  transportation access, drainage, parking, loading space, lighting, screening,
                  landscaping, open space, fire protection, and pedestrian and vehicular
                  circulation;




T-Mobile Steep Mountain Park                                            App. # «JS_File_Number»
Conditional Use Permit Request                    4
              g. The safeguards provided or proposed to prevent noxious or offensive
                 emissions such as noise, glare, dust, pollutants and odor from the proposed
                 facility or use; and
              h. The impact of the proposed facility or use on the health, safety, and welfare
                 of the city, the area, and persons owning or leasing property in the area.
          5. The planning commission may request additional information as may be
             reasonably needed to determine whether the requirements of this subsection E
             can be met.

In addition to the criteria found in DCMC Section 9-5-080, additional Conditional Use Permit
criteria for review and potential approval of a Wireless Telecommunications Facilities are
found in Sections 9-41-060 and 9-41-070 of the DCMC. These sections depict the additional
standards of review for such requests as:

9-41-060: CONDITIONAL USE:
A wireless telecommunication facility that does not conform to the development standards
of section 9-41-040 of this chapter may be established in any agricultural, residential,
commercial, public facilities, or industrial zone subject to the issuance of a conditional use
permit pursuant to the requirements of section 9-5-080 of this title and the development
standards of section 9-41-070 of this chapter. Each facility shall require a separate
conditional use permit.

9-41-070: DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS; CONDITIONAL USE:
The development standards of section 9-41-060 of this chapter shall apply to any wireless
telecommunication facility established as a conditional use, except as otherwise modified
by this section:
        A. Antennas And Mounting Structures On Or Over Public Rights Of Way: Antennas
           and mounting structures shall not encroach on or over the public sidewalk or on
           or over a public right of way, unless:
           1. The facility is approved by conditional use permit on existing structures
               located in the right of way.
           2. Associated mechanical and electrical equipment is not located in the public
               right of way.
           3. The facility is virtually hidden from view.
           4. The existing structure is proven structurally sound to support the proposed
               facility.
           5. The carrier signs an agreement with the city which:
               a. Holds the city harmless from any liability claims as a result of the facility;
               b. Requires the carrier to provide, prior to permit issuance, proof to the city
                    that the carrier has acquired sufficient liability insurance as may be
                    required by the city; and
               c. Names the city as cobeneficiary of the insurance policy.
        B. Facilities In Historic Districts: Any facility proposed within a historic district or on



T-Mobile Steep Mountain Park                                            App. # «JS_File_Number»
Conditional Use Permit Request                   5
            a landmark site as defined by the city, county, state or the federal governments
            shall be approved by a conditional use permit.
         C. Fencing And Screening Requirements: Specific fencing and screening plans for
            each facility shall be submitted to the city in conjunction with any conditional use
            permit application. Higher grade fencing, more aesthetic fence designs, and
            landscaping may be required for the purposes of visual screening, architectural
            compatibility, site compatibility, and other impact mitigation.
         D. Lattice Towers: A lattice tower facility shall be permitted only upon a finding that
            none of the other facility types set forth in subsection 9-41-020B of this chapter
            is suitable in light of particular circumstances associated with a location where a
            facility is required for the proper functioning of a low power radio services
            network.
         E. Monopoles:
            1. Monopoles may be allowed in side yard areas of any lot if approved by
                conditional use permit.
            2. The height of an existing monopole located in a commercial zone may be
                increased if approved by a condition use permit. No monopole with
                antennas and antenna support structures shall exceed a height of one
                hundred feet (100').
            3. A monopole may be located within five hundred (500) linear feet from
                another monopole if approved by a conditional use permit.
            4. The maximum height of a monopole with antennas and antenna support
                structures may be increased if approved by conditional use permit for
                collocation of a second carrier on an existing monopole. In the event
                collocation for the second carrier is terminated, the original carrier shall have
                thirty (30) days, from the date the second carrier files with the FCC the
                required "notice to abandon" its facility, to reduce the height of the
                monopole to its originally approved height. The city shall receive a copy of
                the "notice to abandon" filed with the FCC.
         F. Nonflush Mounted Wall Antennas: Nonflush mounted wall antennas may extend
            more than six feet (6') horizontally from the wall surface if approved by a
            condition use permit.
         G. Stealth Design Antennas And Monopoles: Stealth design monopoles may be
            located in residential or agricultural zones if approved by a conditional use
            permit. Final determination of the acceptability of any such stealth design
            antenna or monopole shall be made as part of the conditional use permit
            process.
         H. Additional Conditional Use Factors: In addition to conditional use standards
            outlined in subsection 9-5-080E of this title, the following factors shall be
            considered in evaluating an application for a conditional use permit:
            1. Compatibility of the proposed structure with the height and mass of existing
                buildings and utility structures.
            2. For new sites, whether location of the antenna on other existing structures in



T-Mobile Steep Mountain Park                                           App. # «JS_File_Number»
Conditional Use Permit Request                  6
                 the same vicinity such as other towers, buildings, water towers, utility poles,
                 athletic field lights, parking lot lights, etc., is possible without significantly
                 impacting antenna transmission or reception.
              3. Antenna location in relation to existing vegetation, topography and buildings
                 to obtain the best visual screening.
              4. Whether spacing between monopoles creates quantifiable detrimental
                 impacts to adjoining properties.


REVIEWS

Planning Division Review. The Draper City Planning Division has completed their review of
the amended Conditional Use Permit submission. Comments from this division, if any, can
be found in Exhibit A.

Engineering and Public Works Divisions Review. The Draper City Engineering and Public
Works Divisions have completed their reviews of the amended Conditional Use Permit
submission. Comments from these divisions, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Building Division Review. The Draper City Building Division has completed their review of
the amended Conditional Use Permit submission. Comments from this division, if any, can
be found in Exhibit A.

Fire Division Review. The Draper City Fire Marshal has completed his review of the
amended Conditional Use Permit submission. Comments from this division, if any, can be
found in Exhibit A.

Noticing. Notice has been properly issued in the manner outlined in the City and State
Codes.



STAFF RECOMMENDATION
Staff recommends that the Planning Commission review the request, hear from the
applicant, receive public comment, and make a decision based on the findings and criteria
for approval, or denial, as listed within the staff report.

If the Planning Commission decides to approve the request, staff recommends they include
the following conditions of approval:

         1.       That all requirements of the Draper City Engineering, Public Works, Building,
                  Planning, and Fire Divisions are satisfied throughout the development of the
                  site and the construction of all buildings on the site, including permitting.
         2.       That the antenna and antenna mounts be painted a color that matches the



T-Mobile Steep Mountain Park                                             App. # «JS_File_Number»
Conditional Use Permit Request                    7
                  existing color of the pole and that the specific details regarding the exact
                  paint color that will be used be provided to staff for review and approval as
                  part of the required building permit application.
         3.       That after installation is complete, that T-Mobile and the applicant shall be
                  required to re-paint the newly installed components if the color or sheen of
                  the newly installed components does not match the color or sheen of the
                  existing pole, as determined by Planning Staff.



MODEL MOTIONS
Sample Motion for Approval – I move that we approve the Conditional Use Permit
amendments, as requested by Declan Murphy, representing Coal Creek Consulting and T-
Mobile for the proposed T-Mobile Wireless Telecommunications Facility, application 2025-
0275-USE based on the findings and criteria for approval and the conditions listed in the
Staff Report dated December 10, 2025.

Findings for Approval:
       1.     The proposed use is in harmony and compliance with the objectives and
              requirements of the city's general plan.
       2.     Reasonable conditions have been imposed that substantially mitigate the
              reasonably anticipated detrimental effects of the proposed use.
       3.     The proposed height of the installation is compatible with the height and
              mass of existing buildings and utility structures.
       4.     The antenna location in relation to existing vegetation, topography and
              buildings provides adequate visual screening.
       5.     The specific property is suitable for the proposed use.
       6.     There are no identified health, safety, or welfare impacts of the proposal for
              either the city, the area, or persons owning or leasing property in the area.

Sample Motion for Modified Approval– I move that we approve the Conditional Use Permit
amendments, as requested by Declan Murphy, representing Coal Creek Consulting and T-
Mobile for the proposed T-Mobile Wireless Telecommunications Facility, application 2025-
0275-USE based on the findings and criteria for approval and the conditions listed in the
Staff Report dated December 10, 2025, together with the following additional or modified
findings or conditions:

         1.       (List any additional or modified findings or conditions…)

Sample Motion for Denial –I move that we deny the Conditional Use Permit amendments,
as requested by Declan Murphy, representing Coal Creek Consulting and T-Mobile for the
proposed T-Mobile Wireless Telecommunications Facility, application 2025-0275-USE based
on the findings for denial listed in the Staff Report dated December 10, 2025




T-Mobile Steep Mountain Park                                           App. # «JS_File_Number»
Conditional Use Permit Request                   8
Findings for Denial:
       1.     The proposed use is not in harmony with the objectives and requirements of
              the city's general plan.
       2.     Reasonable conditions are not able to be imposed to substantially mitigate
              the reasonably anticipated detrimental effects of the proposed use.
       3.     The proposed height of the installation is not compatible with the height and
              mass of existing buildings and utility structures.
       4.     The antenna location in relation to existing vegetation, topography and
              buildings does not provide adequate visual screening.
       5.     The specific property is not suitable for the proposed use.
       6.     There are health, safety, or welfare impacts of the proposal for either the
              city, the area, or persons owning or leasing property in the area.




T-Mobile Steep Mountain Park                                      App. # «JS_File_Number»
Conditional Use Permit Request               9
                                      EXHIBIT A
                                 DEPARTMENT REVIEWS

REVIEWS ARE NOT MEANT TO BE AN ALL INCLUSIVE LIST OF POSSIBLE COMMENTS OR
CONDITIONS.



Planning Division Review.

       1.     No additional comments.

Engineering and Public Works Divisions Review.

       1.     CUP does not impact public ROWs, utilities, traffic or drainage.

Building Division Review.

       1.     No additional comments.

Fire Division Review.

       1.     No additional comments.
  EXHIBIT B
VICINITY MAP
 EXHIBIT C
AERIAL MAP
  EXHIBIT D
LAND USE MAP
 EXHIBIT E
ZONING MAP
 EXHIBIT F
SITE PLANS
                                  PARCEL:
                              340737801410000                                                         PARCEL:
                                                                                                   34074520050000




                        PARCEL:
                     34073780210000



                                                                                                 PARCEL:
                                                                                              34074520060000


                              PARCEL:                              EXISTING                                                                EXISTING
                           34073780220000                         GRASS FIELD                                                             GRASS FIELD




                          PARCEL:
                       34073780300000
                                                                                                   EXISTING
                                                                                                    TENNIS
                                                                                                   COURTS




                                 PARCEL:
                              34073780400000




                                                                                                                                                            PAROWAN WAY




                                                                                                                                                                                                                              RFDS VER: 4 DATED 11/14/2024 AT 7:18:31 PM
                                                                                                            EXISTING
                                                                                                          SOCCER FIELD




                                                                                                                                                                                                             SL01589A
                                                RED LEAF DR.




                                                                                                                                                                                                          STEEP MOUNTAIN
                                                                                                              EXISTING
                                                                                                              BASEBALL
                                                                                                                                                                                                               PARK
                                                                                                                FIELD




                                                                             EXISTING
                                                                                        EXISTING
                                                                                        BUILDING
                                                                                                                                                                                                         EXISTING SITE PLAN
                                                                           PLAYGROUND

                                                                                                                            EXISTING
                               PARCEL:                                                                                    PARKING AREA
                            34073800150000




                                                                                                                                                        .
                                                                                                                                                   DR
                                                                                                                                             AIN
                                                                                                                                       U  NT
                                                                                                                                 P   MO
                                                                                                                              EE
                                                                                                                         ST

                                  PARCEL:        PARCEL:          PARCEL:
                               34181270130000 34182020010000   34182020020000




                                                                                                                                                                                                 N




EXISTING SITE PLAN                                                                                                                                                        SCALE:   1" = 50'-0"       1
                                                                                                                                                                                                               C-1
                              EXISTING
                              BUILDING




                                                                                            RFDS VER: 4 DATED 11/14/2024 AT 7:18:31 PM
                                                                            SL01589A
                                                                         STEEP MOUNTAIN
                                                                              PARK



                                                                        EXISTING ENLARGED
                                                                             SITE PLAN




                                                                N




EXISTING ENLARGED SITE PLAN              SCALE:   1/4" =1'-0"       1
                                                                             C-2
                                                                                 N                                                                                                       N




                                                                                                                                                                                                                  RFDS VER: 4 DATED 11/14/2024 AT 7:18:31 PM
EXISTING ENLARGED ANTENNA PLAN                           SCALE:   3/4" = 1'-0"       3   EXISTING ENLARGED EQUIPMENT PLAN                                        SCALE:   3/8" = 1'-0"       1




                                                  1



                                                                                                                                                                                                    SL01589A
                                                                                                                                                                                                 STEEP MOUNTAIN
                                                                                                                                                                                                      PARK




                                                                                                                            WO
                                                                                                                             RK
                                 1




                                                                                                                                 IN
                                                                                                                                 G
                                                                                                                                  CL
                                                                                                                                      EA
                                                                                                                                      RA
                                                                                                                                       NC
                                                                                                                                           E
                                                                                                                                               WO
                                                                                                                                                 RK
                                                                                                                                                                                                  EXISTING/NEW




                                                                                                                                                 IN
                                                                                                                                                  G
                                                                                                                                                      CL
                                                                                                                                                        EA
                                                                                                                                                        RA
                                                                                                                                                         NC
                                                                                                                                                                                                   ENLARGED




                                                                                                                                                             E
                             UPPAER ANTENNA RAD CENTER

                                                                                                                                                                                                 EQUIPMENT AND
                                                                                                                                                                                                 ANTENNA PLANS


                                                  2




                                 2




                             LOWER ANTENNA RAD CENTER                            N                                                                                                       N




NEW ENLARGED ANTENNA PLANS                               SCALE:   1/2" = 1'-0"       4   NEW ENLARGED EQUIPMENT PLAN                                             SCALE:   3/8" = 1'-0"       2
                                                                                                                                                                                                     C-3
 EXHIBIT G
ELEVATIONS
                                                                                                                                    RFDS VER: 4 DATED 11/14/2024 AT 7:18:31 PM
                                                                                                                      SL01589A
                                                                                                                   STEEP MOUNTAIN
                                                                                                                        PARK



                                                                                                                    EXISTING/NEW
                                                                                                                     ELEVATIONS




EXISTING SOUTH EAST ELEVATION   SCALE:   1/4" = 1'-0"   2   NEW SOUTH EAST ELEVATION   SCALE:   1/4" = 1'-0"   1
                                                                                                                       C-4
       EXHIBIT H
APPLICANT QUESTIONAIRE
                       SL01589A - Steep Mountain Park
                 351 E Steep Mountain Drive, Draper UT 84020
                             Parcel: 3407452006



Narrative Justification for T-Mobile Equipment Upgrade – Existing
Wireless Communication Facility (WCF)

Project Overview

T-Mobile is requesting approval to upgrade antennas and associated equipment
at an existing, previously approved Wireless Communication Facility (WCF)
located at 351 E Steep Mountain Drive, Draper. The existing facility was originally
approved through the City’s Use Permit process, which required antenna
screening at that time. Since the original approval, additional wireless carriers
have been co-located on the same structure, with their antennas installed
unscreened. T-Mobile now proposes to replace and upgrade its existing antennas
with new modern equipment to enhance service reliability and data capacity. The
proposed antennas will not be screened, but will be visually consistent with the
existing unscreened/painted to match antennas currently on the pole.

This modification qualifies as an eligible facilities request under Section
6409(a) of the Middle Class Tax Relief and Job Creation Act of 2012 (the
“Spectrum Act”), which requires local governments to approve modifications that
do not substantially change the physical dimensions of an existing tower or base
station.

Use Permit Criteria Analysis

a. Harmony and compliance with the City’s General Plan and Title
The proposed upgrade supports the objectives of the City’s General Plan by
improving critical telecommunications infrastructure that serves residents,
businesses, and visitors. Reliable wireless communication is an essential
component of the City’s economic vitality, emergency response capability, and
overall quality of life. The proposal remains consistent with the City’s zoning
requirements and the intent of the original use permit.

b. Suitability of the property for the proposed use
The existing site has long been established as a suitable and appropriate location
for a WCF. The proposed equipment upgrade does not introduce a new land use,
it merely modernizes existing technology within the same approved footprint.
The property remains ideally suited for continued use as a telecommunications
facility.
c. Potential injury to existing or future development
The proposed modification will not be injurious to existing or future
development. No increase to the existing tower height, expansion of ground
equipment, or change in land use intensity is proposed. The upgraded antennas
will operate within FCC-regulated emission limits and will not generate noise,
vibration, or other adverse effects.

d. Economic impact on the surrounding area
The project will have a positive economic effect by supporting improved wireless
coverage and capacity for local businesses, residents, and emergency services.
No negative economic impacts are anticipated. The improved connectivity helps
sustain commerce and supports the City’s technology-driven economic
objectives.

e. Aesthetic impact on the surrounding area
While the original T-Mobile installation included antenna screening, the visual
context of the site has since evolved. Other wireless carriers have added
unscreened antennas on the same structure, establishing a precedent and a new
visual standard for this facility. The proposed unscreened antennas will closely
resemble those of other carriers, resulting in a uniform and harmonious
appearance. Requiring T-Mobile to maintain a screened configuration would
create visual inconsistency and unfairly single out one carrier for different
treatment contrary to federal telecommunications policy.

f. Safeguards for utilities, access, drainage, parking, lighting,
screening, landscaping, and circulation
All existing site improvements and safeguards will remain unchanged. The
proposed work involves only antenna and equipment replacement within the
existing lease area. No modifications are proposed to utilities, access, or
circulation patterns.

g. Safeguards to prevent noxious or offensive emissions
The upgraded equipment will comply with all applicable FCC, FAA, and local
safety regulations. The facility will not produce noise, glare, dust, odor, or other
emissions. Power consumption and operational characteristics are similar to or
less than the existing equipment.

h. Impact on health, safety, and welfare
The upgrade enhances public safety and welfare by improving wireless
communication capacity for emergency responders and the general public. The
facility operates within all FCC-mandated radiofrequency exposure standards. No
adverse health or safety impacts are anticipated.
Conclusion

The proposed T-Mobile equipment upgrade is in full harmony with the City’s
General Plan, zoning regulations, and established precedents for this WCF. The
modifications will not substantially change the facility’s physical dimensions and
therefore qualify as an eligible facilities request under Section 6409(a).
The project maintains aesthetic consistency with co-located carriers, avoids
adverse impacts, and enhances the reliability and resiliency of the City’s wireless
network infrastructure.

For these reasons, T-Mobile respectfully requests approval of this modification as
a compliant, non-substantial and beneficial improvement to the existing wireless
facility.


Sincerely,




Declan Murphy
Coal Creek Consulting for T-Mobile
8283 N Hayden Road, Suite 258, Scottsdale AZ 85258
Tel: (602) 326-0111
Email: dmurphy@coal-creek.com
