                                Development Review Committee
                                    1020 East Pioneer Road
                                       Draper, UT 84020
                                       October 4, 2024

To:             Draper City Planning Commission
                Business Date: October 10, 2024

From:           Development Review Committee

Prepared By: Todd Taylor, Planner III
             Planning Division
             Community Development Department
             801-576-6510, todd.taylor@draperutah.gov

Re:     Warhorse Ranch – Development Agreement and Zoning Map Amendment Request
        Application No.: 2024-0045-DA, 2024-0248-MA
        Applicant:        Chad Evans, representing the Vern LeLand Richins and Linda
                          Asay Richins Living Trust, Jess and Valerie Maxfield, and Karen
                          Evans
        Project Location: 12741 S and 12751 S Costanza Way
        Current Zoning: A5 (Agricultural, 5 acre lot minimum) Zone
        Acreage:          4.44 Acres (Approximately 193,406 ft2)
        Request:          Request for approval of a Development Agreement and a Zoning
                          Map Amendment to allow three (3) existing parcels to be
                          developed into four (4) lots.



BACKGROUND AND SUMMARY

This application is a request for approval of a Development Agreement and Zoning Map
Amendment for approximately 4.44 acres located on the east side of Constanza Way, at
approximately 12741 S and 12751 S Costanza Way (Exhibit C & D). The applicant is requesting
a zone change from A5 to RA2 (Residential Agricultural, 20,000 ft² lot minimum) in
conjunction with the Development Agreement to allow the existing three (3) parcels to be
developed into four (4) lots.

The subject properties are not a part of a previous legal subdivision. According to County
records, the home at 12741 S Costanza Way was built in 1987 and the home at 12751
Costanza Way was built in 1997. These properties are accessed from Costanza Way across a


Warhorse Ranch Development Agreement                             App. No. 2024-0045-DA,
and Zoning Map Amendment Request              1                           2024-0248-MA
historic east/west private drive located on City-owned right of way. On September 27, 2024
during the writing of this staff report, the property located at 12741 S Costanza Way was
divided in violation of subdivision ordinance and the new property owners were added into
the applications.



ANALYSIS

General Plan and Zoning.

 Table 1                 General Plan and Zoning Designations                  Exhibit
 Existing Land Use       Residential Low-Medium Density                        Exhibit E
 Current Zoning          A5                                                    Exhibit F
 Proposed Zoning         RA2                                                   Exhibit G
 Adjacent Zoning
     East                RA2
     West                RA2
     North               RA2
     South               A5, RA2

The Residential Low-Medium Density land use designation is characterized as follows:




Warhorse Ranch Development Agreement                            App. No. 2024-0045-DA,
and Zoning Map Amendment Request              2                          2024-0248-MA
According to Draper City Municipal Code (DCMC) Section 9-8-020, the purpose of the A5 zone
is to “maintain the status of large tracts of agricultural land by allowing most commercial
agricultural uses. Typical uses include farming, dairy, and cattle production.”

Development Agreement.

The applicant is proposing a Development Agreement (Exhibit I). The Development
Agreement would exempt the subject properties from full compliance with some aspects of
the City’s private right-of-way standards. First, the Development Agreement would allow for
the additional development of the subject properties without requiring additional widening
of a portion of Costanza Way located north of the subject properties that was previously
developed as part of the Noorda Subdivision. That section is too narrow to meet the City’s
current standards and existing conditions in that location would make widening difficult. The
proposed future development south of this portion of the private roadway would still be
required to meet the minimum pavement width and access standards elsewhere. Second,
the Development Agreement would modify the typical cross section for the portion of
Costanza Way to the west of, and adjacent to, the subject property to remove the required
sidewalk. This proposed cross section would be thirty-one (31) feet in total width including
curb and gutter on both sides. In exchange for these allowances from the City, the applicant
has agreed as part of the Development Agreement to restrict development of the existing
three (3) parcels to a maximum of four (4) total lots as conceptually shown in the
Development Agreement exhibits. Development of the subject properties will have to
comply with the International Fire Code per comments provided by the Draper City Fire
Department (Exhibit A).

Where the property at 12741 S Costanza was recently divided in violation of subdivision
ordinance, compliance with all subdivision standards including the submittal of applicable
applications will still be required if the Development Agreement and Zoning Map
Amendment are approved. Approval of these applications as outlined in this staff report
does not indicate approval or acceptance of the illegal subdivision of the property. If the
Development Agreement and Zoning Map Amendment are not approved, the property
owners involved will be subject to enforcement actions by the City.

The Development Agreement would only apply to the subject properties that are part of this
agreement, and any future subdivisions that may be proposed along Costanza Way are not
covered by this Development Agreement.

Zoning Map Amendment.

As another part of the Development Agreement, the applicant is requesting approval for a
zone change to the RA2 zone (Exhibit H). As noted in the table above, the RA2 zone is
consistent with the existing Residential Low-Medium Density land use designation and no
Land Use Map Amendment is needed.


Warhorse Ranch Development Agreement                               App. No. 2024-0045-DA,
and Zoning Map Amendment Request             3                              2024-0248-MA
The RA2 zone is a single-family, residential agricultural zone. The minimum lot size in the RA2
zone is 20,000 ft2. According to DCMC Section 9-8-020, the purpose of the RA2 zone is to
“foster low density development with little impact on its surroundings and municipal
services; to generally preserve the character of the city's semirural areas; and to promote
and preserve conditions favorable to large lot family life, including the keeping of limited
numbers of animals and fowl. The predominant use in these zones is intended to be
detached single-family dwellings, protected from encroachment by commercial and
industrial uses.”

A change from the A5 to the RA2 zone will most notably affect the animal rights for the
subject properties. Currently the property at 12751 Costanza Way has two (2) horses. Per
DCMC Section 7-5-280, the keeping of horses is permitted in the RA2 zone, with two (2)
horses allowed on the first 20,000 ft2 and one (1) additional horse allowed for each additional
10,000 ft2. With respect to other animals the RA2 zone requires a conditional use permit be
obtained and allows the keeping of one (1) animal unit for every 20,000 ft2 of total lot area.
The keeping of chickens and bees are regulated separately from these standards.

Criteria For Approval.

Development Agreement. The DCMC does not contain criteria for review and potential
approval of a Development Agreement. It does, however; contain a list of items that are
required as part of an Agreement and limitations to a Development Agreement, as found in
DCMC Sections 9-5-200(C) and (D). This section depicts the required materials for such
requests as:

C. Procedure: All development agreements, upon proper execution, shall be recorded with
   the respective County Recorder's Office, shall run with the land, and shall be binding on
   all successors in the ownership of the affected property. A development agreement shall
   contain, at a minimum, the following:
     1. A legal description of the land subject to the development agreement.
     2. The restrictions or conditions to be attached to the property including development
        standards and the provision of public facilities.
     3. The configuration of the project as shown on a project master plan.
     4. A statement of the benefits and value the development agreement will have for the
        City as a whole, including, but not limited to, assurances of design standards,
        dedication and improvement of open space, parks, trails, amenities, or
        infrastructure such as public rights-of-way or utilities.
     5. The time frames for performance by the parties.
     6. A description of the various City approvals required before the commencement of
        construction and other procedures that will be required after approval of the
        development agreement.
     7. Provisions for enforcement of the terms and conditions of the development
        agreement.


Warhorse Ranch Development Agreement                                App. No. 2024-0045-DA,
and Zoning Map Amendment Request              4                              2024-0248-MA
     8. Provisions for making amendments to the development agreement.
     9. The time limitation of the agreement.
     10. Such other terms as may be proposed and agreed to between the City and
        developer or subdivider.
D. Limitations:
     1. A development agreement under this section may not:
          a. Limit the City’s authority in the future to:
              i. Enact a land use regulation; or
              ii. Take any action allowed under Utah Code Annotated Section 10-8-84, as
                   amended;
     b. Require the City to change the zoning designation of an area of land within the City
        in the future; or
     c. Contain a term that conflicts with, or is different from, a standard set forth in an
        existing land use regulation that governs the area subject to the development
        agreement, unless the city council approves the development agreement in
        accordance with the same procedures for enacting a land use regulation under Utah
        Code Annotated Section 10-9a-502, including a review and recommendation from
        the planning commission and a public hearing.
     2. The City may not require a development agreement as the only option for
        developing land within the City.
     3. The City may require a development agreement for developing land within the City if the
        applicant has applied for a legislative or discretionary approval, including an approval
        relating to:
          a. the height of a structure;
          b. a parking or setback exception;
          c. a density transfer or bonus;
          d. a development incentive;
          e. a zone change; or
          f. an amendment to a prior development agreement.
     4. The City may not require a development agreement as a condition for developing land
        within the City if:
          a. the development otherwise complies with applicable statute and City ordinances;
          b. the development is an allowed or permitted use; or
          c. the City’s land use regulations otherwise establish all applicable standards for
              development on the land.
     5. The City may submit to the County Recorder’s office for recording:
          a. a fully executed agreement; or
          b. a document related to:
              i. code enforcement;
              ii. a special assessment area;
              iii. a local historic district boundary; or
              iv. the memorializing of enforcement of an agreed upon restriction, incentive, or
                   covenant.


Warhorse Ranch Development Agreement                                 App. No. 2024-0045-DA,
and Zoning Map Amendment Request               5                              2024-0248-MA
     6. Subject to 9-5-200(D)(5), the City may not cause to be recorded against private real
        property a document that imposes development requirements, development
        regulations, or development controls on the property.
     7. To the extent that a development agreement does not specifically address a matter
        or concern related to land use or development, the matter or concern is governed
        by;
          a. Utah Code Annotated 10-9a-530, as amended; and
          b. Applicable land use regulations of this Title.

Zoning Map Amendment. A Map Amendment is a matter committed to the legislative
discretion of the City Council and is not controlled by any one standard. However, in making
a recommendation to the City Council, the Planning Commission should consider the
following factors in Section 9-5-060(E) of the DCMC:

     1. Map Amendments:
         a. Whether the proposed amendment is consistent with goals, objectives and
            policies of the city's general plan;
         b. Whether the proposed amendment is harmonious with the overall character of
            existing development in the vicinity of the subject property;
         c. Whether the proposed amendment is consistent with the standards of any
            applicable overlay zone;
         d. The extent to which the proposed amendment may adversely affect adjacent
            property; and
         e. The adequacy of facilities and services intended to serve the subject property,
            including, but not limited to, roadways, parks and recreation facilities, police
            and fire protection, schools, stormwater drainage systems, water supplies, and
            wastewater and refuse collection.


REVIEWS

Planning Division Review. The Draper City Planning Division has completed their review of
the Development Agreement and Zoning Map Amendment submission. Comments from this
division, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Engineering and Public Works Divisions Review. The Draper City Engineering and Public
Works Divisions have completed their reviews of the Development Agreement and Zoning
Map Amendment submission. Comments from these divisions, if any, can be found in
Exhibit A.

Building Division Review. The Draper City Building Division has completed their review of the
Development Agreement and Zoning Map Amendment submission. Comments from this
division, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.


Warhorse Ranch Development Agreement                               App. No. 2024-0045-DA,
and Zoning Map Amendment Request              6                             2024-0248-MA
Fire Division Review. The Draper City Fire Marshal has completed his review of the
Development Agreement and Zoning Map Amendment submission. Comments from this
division, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Legal Division Review. The Draper City Attorney has completed his review of the
Development Agreement and Zoning Map Amendment submission. Comments from this
division, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Noticing. Notice has been properly issued in the manner outlined in the City and State Codes.


STAFF RECOMMENDATION

Staff recommends that the Planning Commission review the requests, receive public
comment, and makes decisions based on the findings listed below and the criteria for
approval, or denial, as listed within the staff report.

MODEL MOTIONS

Development Agreement.

Sample Motion for Positive Recommendation – I move that we forward a positive
recommendation to the City Council for the Development Agreement, as requested by Chad
Evans, representing the Vern LeLand Richins and Linda Assay Richins Living Trust, Jess and
Valerie Maxfield, and Karen Evans, Application No. 2024-0045-DA, based on the following
findings for approval listed in the Staff Report dated October 4, 2024.

Findings for Approval:
   1. The proposed development agreement complies with DCMC Subsections 9-5-200(C)
       and (D).

Sample Motion for Modified Positive Recommendation – I move that we forward a positive
recommendation to the City Council for the Development Agreement, as requested by Chad
Evans, representing the Vern LeLand Richins and Linda Assay Richins Living Trust, Jess and
Valerie Maxfield, and Karen Evans, Application No. 2024-0045-DA, based on the findings for
approval of a Development Agreement as listed in the Staff Report dated October 4, 2024
and as modified by additional findings or recommendations as follows:

    1. List additional findings for approval…
    2. List any specific recommendations…

Sample Motion for Negative Recommendation – I move that we forward a negative
recommendation to the City Council for the Development Agreement, as requested by Chad


Warhorse Ranch Development Agreement                               App. No. 2024-0045-DA,
and Zoning Map Amendment Request                7                           2024-0248-MA
Evans, representing the Vern LeLand Richins and Linda Assay Richins Living Trust, Jess and
Valerie Maxfield, and Karen Evans, Application No. 2024-0045-DA, based on the following
findings for denial listed in the Staff Report dated October 4, 2024.

Findings for Denial:
   1. The proposed development agreement does not comply with all requirements of
       DCMC Subsections 9-5-200(C) and (D).

Zoning Map Amendment.

Sample Motion for Positive Recommendation – I move that we forward a positive
recommendation to the City Council for the Zoning Map Amendment, as requested by Chad
Evans, representing the Vern LeLand Richins and Linda Assay Richins Living Trust, Jess and
Valerie Maxfield, and Karen Evans, Application No. 2024-0045-DA, based on the following
findings for approval listed in the Staff Report dated October 4, 2024.

Findings for Approval:
   1. The proposed zoning map amendment is consistent with goals, objectives, and
       policies of the city's general plan.
   2. The proposed zoning map amendment is harmonious with the overall character of
       existing development in the vicinity of the subject property.
   3. The proposed zoning map amendment is consistent with the standards of any
       applicable overlay zone.
   4. The proposed zoning map amendment will not adversely affect adjacent property.
   5. There are adequate facilities and services intended to serve the subject property,
       including, but not limited to, roadways, parks and recreation facilities, police and fire
       protection, schools, stormwater drainage systems, water supplies, and wastewater
       and refuse collection.

Sample Motion for Modified Positive Recommendation – I move that we forward a positive
recommendation to the City Council for the Zoning Map Amendment, as requested by Chad
Evans, representing the Vern LeLand Richins and Linda Assay Richins Living Trust, Jess and
Valerie Maxfield, and Karen Evans, Application No. 2024-0045-DA, based on the findings for
approval of a Zoning Map Amendment as listed in the Staff Report dated October 4, 2024
and as modified by additional findings as follows:

    1. List additional findings for approval…

Sample Motion for Negative Recommendation – I move that we forward a negative
recommendation to the City Council for the Zoning Map Amendment, as requested by Chad
Evans, representing the Vern LeLand Richins and Linda Assay Richins Living Trust, Jess and
Valerie Maxfield, and Karen Evans, Application No. 2024-0045-DA, based on the following
findings for denial listed in the Staff Report dated October 4, 2024.


Warhorse Ranch Development Agreement                                 App. No. 2024-0045-DA,
and Zoning Map Amendment Request                8                             2024-0248-MA
Findings for Denial:
   1. The proposed zoning map amendment is not consistent with goals, objectives, and
       policies of the city's general plan.
   2. The proposed zoning map amendment is not harmonious with the overall character
       of existing development in the vicinity of the subject property.
   3. The proposed zoning map amendment is not consistent with the standards of any
       applicable overlay zone.
   4. The proposed zoning map amendment will adversely affect adjacent property.
   5. There are not adequate facilities and services intended to serve the subject property,
       including, but not limited to, roadways, parks and recreation facilities, police and fire
       protection, schools, stormwater drainage systems, water supplies, and wastewater
       and refuse collection.




Warhorse Ranch Development Agreement                                 App. No. 2024-0045-DA,
and Zoning Map Amendment Request               9                              2024-0248-MA
                                      EXHIBIT A
                                 DEPARTMENT REVIEWS

REVIEWS ARE NOT MEANT TO BE AN ALL INCLUSIVE LIST OF POSSIBLE COMMENTS OR
CONDITIONS.



Planning Division Review.

      1.     Pursuant to DCMC Section 9-5-200(C)(4), the Development Agreement should
             provide more benefits and value for the City as a whole.

Engineering and Public Works Divisions Review.

      2.     Other than noted below, we are not aware of any inadequacies of the
             facilities intended to serve this property.
             a.       The change in zone from five acre agricultural zone to an increased
                      density residential/agricultural represents a minor increase in traffic
                      based on the permitted or conditional uses within the zone. The
                      proposed zone permits approximately half acre lots for single family
                      residential units and potentially an associated accessory dwelling unit.
                      The gross area of this lot would accommodate up to nine lots. This
                      density would generate up to nine peak hour trips and 81 daily trips
                      on the fronting street, Costanza Way (private lane) which connects to
                      Relations Street (public street). However, the existing access to the
                      subject parcels may limit the maximum number of development lots
                      as a single access subdivision. Based on the capacity of the closest
                      public street, Relations Street, a local street, the additional trips are
                      not a significant increase in traffic. The size of the parcel and the
                      number of trips will not require mitigation measures, where
                      mitigation is typically contemplated around 100 peak hour trips. There
                      are no current public or private frontage improvements existing on
                      the subject site. Draper City Municipal Code 9-27-150 identifies the
                      required private street improvements.
             b.       Connectivity with the subject parcel to a public right-of-way is on
                      Relations Street, a local street, by way of a private lane. Access
                      locations are be required to meet Draper City Standards as outlined in
                      our Master Transportation Plan and will be evaluated at the time of a
                      site plan or subdivision application. It is noted that the private lane
                      fronting the subject parcels, Costanza Way, is a single access area and
                      has different levels of existing improvements.
             c.       There are no existing storm drainage facilities fronting the subject
                        parcel. Any future site drainage will be required to be addressed with
                        any subdivision or site plan application, and shall comply with the
                        provisions of the development requirements within the Draper City
                        Municipal Code.
              d.        Sanitary sewer facilities will be provided by Jordan Improvement
                        District, formally South Valley Sewer District. Any subdivision or site
                        plan application will require a commitment to serve from the Sewer
                        District that facilities are adequate to provide service for the proposed
                        uses.
              e.        Drinking water is provided by WaterPro to the subject parcel. Any
                        subdivision or site plan application will require a commitment to serve
                        from WaterPro that facilities are adequate to provide service for the
                        proposed uses.

Building Division Review.

       1.     No additional comment.

Fire Division Review.

       1.     This project SHALL be designed to meet all requirements of the 2021
              International Fire Code. Please review all comments contained in the
              approval letter dated July 17, 2024.

Legal Division Review.

       1.     No additional comment.
                                   EXHIBIT B
                              LEGAL DESCRIPTIONS

Parcel: 28-33-129-019
A PARCEL OF LAND LOCATED IN THE NORTHWEST QUARTER OF SECTION 33, TOWNSHIP 3
SOUTH, RANGE 1 EAST, SALT LAKE BASE & MERIDIAN, SAID PARCEL BEING A PORTION OF
THAT CERTAIN PARCEL CONVEYED BY QUIT CLAIM DEED RECORDED FEBRUARY 27, 1995,
AS ENTRY NO. 6029215, IN BOOK 7107 AT PAGE 943, IN THE OFFICE OF THE SALT LAKE
COUNTY RECORDER, SAID PARCEL BEING DESCRIBED MORE PARTICULARLY AS FOLLOWS:
BEGINNING AT A POINT ON THE SOUTH LINE OF THE NOORDA SUBDIVISION, AS
RECORDED IN BOOK 2016P AT PAGE 133, IN THE OFFICE OF SAID COUNTY RECORDER, SAID
POINT ALSO BEING THE NORTHEAST CORNER OF THE DRAPER CITY PARCEL CONVEYED BY
WARRANTY DEED RECORDED SEPTEMBER 09, 1991, AS ENTRY NO. 5123414, IN BOOK 6354
AT PAGE 873, IN THE OFFICE OF SAID COUNTY RECORDER, SAID POINT BEING SOUTH
0°21’12” WEST 812.69 FEET (SOUTH 0°02’20” WEST 803.933 FEET BY DEED) ALONG THE
SECTION LINE AND EAST 1669.55 FEET (1666.45 FEET BY DEED) TO SAID SOUTH LINE AND
SOUTH 88°48’58” EAST 47.34 FEET (SOUTH 89°02’41” EAST BY DEED) ALONG SAID SOUTH
LINE FROM THE NORTHWEST CORNER OF SAID SECTION 33, AND RUNNING THENCE
SOUTH 88°48’58” EAST 443.24 FEET (SOUTH 89°02’41” EAST BY DEED) ALONG SAID SOUTH
LINE TO THE WESTERLY LINE OF WHAT WAS HISTORICALLY THE UTAH LAKE IRRIGATION
COMPANY CANAL, CURRENTLY THE DRAPER CITY PARCEL; THENCE SOUTH 19°04’56” EAST
171.54 FEET (SOUTH 19°14’34” EAST 167.55 FEET BY DEED) ALONG SAID WESTERLY LINE TO
A POINT ON THE NORTH LINE OF LOT A, SOMERSET RIDGE SUBDIVISION, AS RECORDED IN
BOOK 2001P AT PAGE 145 IN THE OFFICE OF SAID COUNTY RECORDER; THENCE SOUTH
89°52’39” WEST 403.84 FEET (NORTH 89°55’41” WEST BY DEED AND SOUTH 89°39’00” WEST
BY PLAT) ALONG SAID NORTH LINE TO THE SOUTHEAST CORNER OF SAID DRAPER CITY
PARCEL; THENCE NORTHWESTERLY ALONG THE EAST LINE OF SAID DRAPER CITY PARCEL
THE FOLLOWING 3 COURSES: 1) NORTH 34°56’18” WEST 100.34 FEET (SOUTH 35°10’00”
EAST 92.06 FEET BY DEED) TO A POINT OF CURVATURE, 2) NORTHWESTERLY ALONG THE
ARC OF A 100.00 FOOT CURVE TO THE RIGHT THROUGH A CENTRAL ANGLE OF 13°45’04” A
DISTANCE OF 24.00 FEET, CHORD BEARS NORTH 28°03’48” WEST 23.94 FEET, 3) NORTH
21°11’16” WEST 73.73 FEET (SOUTH 21°25’00” EAST BY DEED) TO THE POINT OF BEGINNING

Parcel: 28-33-130-024
BEGINNING AT A POINT SOUTH 0°32’06” WEST ALONG THE SECTION LINE 693.00 FEET AND
NORTH 89°25’50” WEST 1186.89 FEET AND NORTH 89°14’30” WEST 800.00 FEET AND
NORTH 89°35’40” WEST 554.15 FEET FROM THE NORTHEAST CORNER OF SECTION 33,
TOWNSHIP 3 SOUTH, RANGE 1 EAST, SALT LAKE BASE & MERIDIAN, AND RUNNING THENCE
SOUTH 30°28’20” WEST 327.92 FEET; THENCE SOUTH 89°52’39” WEST 288.20 FEET, MORE
OR LESS, TO THE EAST LINE OF THE UTAH IRRIGATION COMPANY CANAL; THENCE NORTH
19°04’56” WEST 298.96 FEET; THENCE NORTH 89°55’35” EAST 552.23 FEET TO THE POINT
OF BEGINNING.
  EXHIBIT C
VICINITY MAP
 EXHIBIT D
AERIAL MAP
  EXHIBIT E
LAND USE MAP
       EXHIBIT F
EXISTING ZONING MAP
     EXHIBIT G
PROPOSED ZONING MAP
       EXHIBIT H
APPLICANT QUESTIONAIRE
              Answers to Map Amendment Application Questions
                               Richins and Evans Properties


1. What is the requested zoning designation? RA2
2. Please explain the reason for the request and the justification for approval.
        a. The properties are individually only 1.68 acres (Richins) and 2.76 acres (Evans). A5
           carries with it that properties be a minimum of 5 acres.
        b. Almost all of the surrounding area is designated RA2.
        c. The current zoning designation does not reflect the true use of the property. A5 is
           meant to be used for agricultural uses including farming, dairy and cattle
           production. None of these uses are currently pursued by the owners of these
           properties and size constraints prohibit these uses in the future.
3. How is the requested zoning designation harmonious with the overall character of
   existing development in the vicinity of the subject property? Explain.
        a. RA2 designation is more appropriate for these parcels given its current use. Per
           the definition of RA2, the purpose is to “foster low density development with
           little impact on its surroundings and municipal services; to generally preserve the
           character of the city’s semirural areas; and to promote and preserve conditions
           favorable to large lot family life, including the keeping of limited numbers of
           animals and fowl. The predominant use in these zones is intended to be detached
           single-family dwellings, protected from encroachment by commercial and
           industrial uses”.
4. Are facilities and services, such as roadways and utilities, sufficient to serve the property
   under the proposed zoning? Explain.
        a. Yes. Currently, each property has one single family detached home.
        b. The future intention of the owners is to create one new 1.0-acre lot on each
           property, where eventually a single-family dwelling could be constructed. This
           would result in 4 residential lots rather than 2 with 4 single-family dwellings
           rather than 2 on 4.44 acres. Additional facilities and services, if required, will be
           designated by an approved minor subdivision application.
5. Is the proposed zoning designation consistent with the goals, objectives, and policies of
   the City’s General Plan? Yes.
       EXHIBIT I
DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT
                             DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT
                                      FOR
                             WARHORSE RANCH PROJECT




                                _ _ _ _ _ _ _, 2024




Last Update Date 8/7/2 024         Draper City Contract #   Page I of 32
WHEN RECORDED, RETURN TO:


Laura Oscarson
Draper City Recorder
1020 E Pioneer Rd.
Draper, UT 84020

                                  DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT
                                           FOR
                                  WARHORSE RANCH PROJECT

           THIS DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT (the "Agreement") is made and entered into as

of the __ day of _ _ _ _ _ , 2024, by and between Draper City, a Utah municipality and

those property owners set forth in Section 1.2.16 of this Agreement below and who are executing

this Agreement on the signature page (collectively the "Owners").

                                                RECITALS

           A. The capitalized terms used in this Agreement and in these Recitals are defined in

Section 1.2, below.

           B. Owners collectively are the fee title owners of the Parcels of real property comprising

the Property, who desire to obtain approval to further develop within the "Project" two (2)

additional legal Parcels as set forth herein.

           C. Owners and the City desire that the Property be further developed in a unified and

consistent fashion in one phase pursuant to the Final Plat as approved by the City .

           D. The Parties acknowledge that development of the Property pursuant to this Agreement

will result in planning and economic benefits to the City and its residents by, among other things

requiring orderly development of the Property to be known as "Warhorse Ranch Project", limiting

the potential density of the development of the Property, and increasing property tax and other
Casi Upd ate Date 8/7/2024                  Draper Cit)' Contract #                         Page 2 of 32
revenues to the City based on the subdivision of and improvements to be constructed on the

Property.

         E. The Parties desire to enter into this Agreement to specify the rights and responsibilities

of the Owners in connection with the future development of the Property or portions thereof as

expressed in this Agreement and the rights and responsibilities of the City to allow and regulate

such development pursuant to the requirements of this Agreement.

         F. The Parties understand and intend that this Agreement is a "development agreement"

within the meaning of, and entered into pursuant to the terms of Utah Code Ann. § 10-9a-101 et

seq., as amended.

         G. The Parcels comprising the Property were initially zoned A5. On _ _ _ __

_ _ _ _ , 2024, the City rezoned the Property from the A5 zone to the RA2 zone.

         H. This Agreement is contemplated or required by the Zoning in order to facilitate the

potential further development in the Project.

         I.   This Agreement conforms with the intent of the City's General Plan and the Zoning.

         NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the mutual covenants contained herein, and

other good and valuable consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of which is hereby

acknowledged, the City and the Owners hereby agree to the following:

                                                 TERMS

    1. Incorporation of Recitals and Exhibits/ Definitions.

         1.1. Incorporation. The foregoing Recitals and Exhibits "A" - "C" are hereby

         incorporated into this Agreement.


~ Update Date 8/7/2024                       Draper City Contract #                          Page 3 of 32
           1.2. Definitions. As used in this Agreement, the words and phrases specified below shall

           have the following meanings:

                1.2.1. Act means the Land Use, Development, and Management Act, Utah Code Ann.

                § 10-9a-101 et seq., as amended.

                1.2.2. Administrator means the person designated by the City as the Administrator

                of this Agreement.

                1.2.3 . Applicant means a person or entity submitting a Development Application.

                1.2.4. Buildout means the completion of all of the development on the entire Project

                in accordance with approved Development Applications.

                1.2.5. City means Draper City, a Utah municipality.

                1.2.6. City Consultants means those outside consultants employed by the City in

                various specialized disciplines such as traffic, hydrology or drainage for reviewing

                certain aspects of the development of the Project.

                1.2.7. City's Future Laws means the ordinances, policies, standards, and procedures

               which may be in effect as of a particular time in the future when a Development

               Application is submitted for the Project, and which may or may not be applicable to

               the Development Application depending upon the provisions of this Agreement.

                1.2.8. City's Vested Laws means the ordinances, policies, standards and procedures

               of the City in effect as of the date of this Agreement, a digital copy of which is

               attached as Exhibit "C".

                1.2.9. Council means the elected City Council of the City.

                1.2.10. Default means a material breach of this Agreement as specified herein.
Last Update Date 8/7/2024                     Draper City Contract #                            Page 4 of 32
                1.2.11. Denied means a formal denial issued by the final decision-making body of the

                City for a particular type of Development Application but does not include review

                comments or "redlines" by City staff.

                1.2.12. Development means the development of the Property pursuant to an

                approved Development Application.

                1.2.13. Development Application means an application to the City for development

               of the Project, or any other permit, certificate or other authorization from the City

               required for any further development of the Project.

                1.2.14. (Intentionally Omitted.)

                1.2.15 . Final Plat means the recordable map or other graphical representation ofland

               prepared in accordance with Utah Code Ann. § 10-9a-603 (2021 ), or any successor

               provision, and approved by the City, effectuating a further subdivision of the

               Property.

                1.2.16. Owners means collectively, the following persons or entities owning fee title

               to the specified parcels comprising the Property and their respective assignees or

               transferees as permitted by this Agreement:

                     1.2.16.1.   Evans (Karen Evans, as Trustee) as to parcel no. 28-33-130-024; and

                     1.2.16.2. Richins (Vern Leland Richins and Linda A. Richins, as Trustees) as to

                                 parcel no. 28-33-129-019.

                1.2.17. Master Plan means the conceptual layout for the two (2) existing Residential

               Dwelling Units and two (2) more additional future Residential Dwelling Units, and

               any required Private or Public Infrastructure for the Project. One additional lot to be
Last Update Date 8/7/2024                      Draper City Contract #                           Page 5 of 32
               potentially subdivided from each existing parcel, as depicted on the Master Plan

               Exhibit "B", attached hereto and incorporated herein by this reference.

               1.2.18. Maximum Residential Units means the development on the Property of a

               maximum total of four (4) Residential Dwelling Units.

               1.2.19. Agreement means this Development Agreement including all of its Exhibits.

               1.2.20. Notice means any notice to or from any Party to this Agreement that is either

              required or permitted to be given to another party.

               1.2.21. Open Space shall have the meaning specified in Section 9-3-040 of the City's

              Vested Laws.

               1.2.22. Outsourc[e][ing] means the process of the City contracting with City

              Consultants or paying overtime to City employees to provide technical support in the

              review and approval of the various aspects of a Development Application as is more

              fully set out in this Agreement.

               1.2.23. Parcel means any portion of the Property that is or will be pursuant to this

              Agreement a separate legal parcel.

              1.2.24. Party/Parties means, in the singular, any Owners of a Parcel, or the City; in

              the plural the Owners and the City.

              1.2.25. Planning Commission means the City's Planning Commission.

              1.2.26. Project means the total allowed development which may be constructed on

              the Property pursuant to this Agreement with the associated public and private

              facilities, and all of the other aspects approved as part of this Agreement, or any Final

              Plat approved for a subdivision in the Project.
ast Update Date 8/7/2024                     Draper City Contract #                           Page 6 of 32
                1.2.27. Property means the real property owned by and to be developed by Owners

                more fully legally described in Exhibit "A".

                1.2.28. Public Infrastructure means those elements of infrastructure that are now

                owned by, or which may be dedicated in the future to the City as a condition of the

                approval of a Development Application.

                1.2.29. Residential Dwelling Unit means a structure or portion thereof designed and

                intended for use as a detached single-family residence.

                1.2.30. Subdivision means the further division of the two Parcels of the Property,

                each to create one additional developable lot from such Parcel pursuant to State Law

                and/or the Zoning Ordinance.

                1.2.31. Subdivision Application means any application to further divide a Parcel

                within the Project.

                1.2.32. Zoning means the RA2 zone for the Property adopted by the City for the

                previously zoned AS Property on _ _ ____ , 2024.

                1.2.33. Zoning Ordinance means the City' s Land Use and Development Ordinance

                adopted pursuant to the Act that was in effect as of the date of this Agreement as a

                part of the City's Vested Laws.

     2. Development of the Project.

          2.1. Compliance with the Master Plan and this Agreement. Development of the

          Project shall be in accordance with the City' s Vested Laws, the City' s Future Laws (to

          the extent that these are applicable as otherwise specified in this Agreement), the Master

          Plan and this Agreement.
Last Update Date 8/7/2 024                     Draper City Contract #                          Page 7 of 32
          2.2. Maximum Residential Units. At Buildout of the Project, the Owners shall

          collectively be entitled to have developed up to the four (4) Maximum Residential Units,

          two on each Parcel, as specified in and pursuant to this Agreement of the type and in the

          general location as shown on the Master Plan attached as Exhibit "B" hereto.

          2.3. Limitation and No Guarantee. Owners acknowledge that the development of the

          Maximum Residential Units and every other aspect of the Master Plan requires the

          Development Application comply with the City' s Vested Laws including, without

          limitation, the City' s geologic hazards requirements. The City' s entry into this

          Agreement does not guarantee that the Owners will be able to construct the Maximum

          Residential Units until and unless all the applicable requirements of the City' s Vested

          Laws, as modified by this Agreement are complied with in connection with the

          Development Application.

          2.4. Owners' Discretion. This Agreement shall not obligate Owner to subdivide.

          However, once the Development Application has been approved and construction of a

          Residential Dwelling Unit has begun, the Owner shall be required to complete the

          Residential Dwelling Unit within the time required by Draper City Municipal Code

          ("DCMC").

          2.5. Accounting for Residential Units for Parcels Sold to Future Owners. Any Parcel

          sold or otherwise conveyed by any Owner to a future owner shall include the transfer of

          any specified portion of the Maximum Residential Units potentially developable on such

          Parcel as depicted in the Master Plan.

          2.6. Specific Modifications of City Standards. In recognition that the Project is being
Last Update Date 8/7/2024                   Draper City Contract #                             Page 8 of 32
         created from Parcels of real property that have been previously developed and improved to

         some extent in one or more phases over a period of time, the City agrees as follows with

         respect to the Project and the Development Application(s) in the Project (the "Specific

         Modifications"):


              2.6.1. The "Noorda" subdivision road shall remain the same without modification or

              widening;


              2.6.2. The road running south from the "Noorda" subdivision road as it accesses the

              northerly portion of the Project to the south side of its intersection with "Warhorse

              Ranch Road" running east to the "Evans" Parcel shall be thirty-one (31) feet in width,

              including curb and gutter, and no sidewalk shall be required, as depicted on Exhibit

              "B";


              2.6.3. Any other infrastructure within the Project will comply with applicable City

              Code;


              2.6.4. Actual construction of the infrastructure improvements (e.g. , underground

              utilities, etc.) serving or required by each Parcel in the Project that does not already

              have an existing Residential Dwelling Unit on it, shall only be required to be installed

              at the time required an approved Development Application for the Residential Dwelling

              Unit as to such Parcel; and




ast Update Date 8/7/2024                    Draper City Contract #                           Page 9 of 32
                2.6.5. In connection with the City 's approval of the Specific Modifications set forth in

                this Section 2.5 of the Agreement, each Owner executing this Agreement, on its own

                behalf and on behalf of its successors, assigns and heirs, running with the land, does

                hereby waive, and release and hold the City harmless from any claims, suits, or

                liabilities, of any nature or description, arising from or related to the City's Specific

                Modifications set forth herein, and each Owner agrees that once the Development

               Applications have been approved and the Maximum Residential Units permitted for

               such Owner's Parcel as set forth in Section 2.2 above have been constructed, a

            ' restrictive covenant shall be recorded by the Owners of the Property prohibiting further

               subdivision of the Property.

     3. Vested Rights.

          3.1. Vested Rights Granted by Approval of this Agreement. To the maximum extent

          permissible under the laws of Utah and the United States and at equity, the Parties intend

          that this Agreement grant the Owners all rights to develop the Project, up to the number

          of Maximum Residential Units in fulfillment of this Agreement, the City's Vested Laws,

          the Zoning and the Master Plan except as specifically provided herein. The Parties

          specifically intend that this Agreement grant to Owners "vested rights" as that term is

          construed in Utah's common law and pursuant to Utah Code Ann.§ 10-9a-509 (2018).

          3.2. Exceptions. The restrictions on the applicability of the City's Future Laws to the

          Project as specified in Section 3.1 are subject to only the following exceptions:

               3.2.1. Owner Agreement. City's Future Laws that the Owners agree to in writing as

               applicable to the Project in a Development Application;
Last Update Date 8/7/2024                     Draper City Con tract #                          Page 10 o f 32
               3.2.2. State and Federal Compliance. City's Future Laws which are generally

               applicable to all properties in the City and which are required to comply with State

               and Federal laws and regulations affecting the Project;

               3.2.3. Codes. Any City's Future Laws that are updates or amendments to existing

               building, plumbing, mechanical, electrical, dangerous buildings, drainage, fire, or

               similar construction or safety related codes, such as the International Building Code,

              the APWA Specifications, AAHSTO Standards, the Manual of Uniform Traffic

              Control Devices or similar standards that are generated by a nationally or statewide

              recognized construction/safety organization, or by the State or Federal governments

              and are required to meet legitimate concerns related to public health, safety or

              welfare;

              3.2.4. Taxes. Taxes, or modifications thereto, so long as such taxes are lawfully

              imposed and charged uniformly by the City to all properties, applications, persons

              and entities similarly situated;

              3.2.5. Fees. Changes to the amounts of fees for the processing of Development

              Applications that are generally applicable to all development within the City (or a

              portion of the City as specified in the lawfully adopted fee schedule) and which are

              adopted pursuant to State law;

              3.2.6. Impact Fees. Impact Fees or modifications thereto which are lawfully adopted,

              and imposed by the City and which meet all requirements of the U.S. Constitution,

              Utah Constitution, law and applicable statutes, including but not limited to Utah Code

              Ann. Section 11 -3 6a-101 et seq., as amended;
asl Update Date 8/7/2024                     Draper City Contract #                          Page 11 of32
                3.2.7. Planning and Zoning Modification. Changes by the City to its planning

                principles and design standards such as architectural or design requirements, setbacks

                or similar items so long as such changes do not work to reduce the Maximum

                Residential Units, are generally applicable across the entire City, do not adversely

                affect the City' s Specific Modifications set forth in Section 3.3 below, and do not

                materially and unreasonably increase the costs associated with a Development

                Application; or

                3.2.8. Compelling, Countervailing Interest. Laws, rules or regulations that the City' s

                land use authority finds, on the record, are necessary to avoid jeopardizing a

               compelling, countervailing public interest pursuant to Utah Code Ann. § 10-9a-

               509(1)(a)(i), as amended.

     4. Term of Agreement. The effective date of this Agreement shall be _ _ _ _ _ __

2024. This Agreement shall expire December 31 , 2032. This Agreement shall also terminate

automatically at Buildout.

     5. Building Permits. The City shall n;asonably accept complete Building Permit

applications for the two (2) future residential Dwelling Units (or permissible buildings and

structures) for the Parcels.

     6. Processing of Development Applications.

          6.1. Outsourcing of Processing of Development Applications. Within twenty-one (21)

          calendar days after receipt of a Development Application and upon the request of

          Applicant the City and Applicant will confer to determine whether the City desires to

          Outsource the review of any aspect of the Development Application to ensure that it is
Last Update Date 8/7/2024                     Draper City Contract #                             Page 12 of32
          processed on a timely basis. If the City determines that Outsourcing is necessary to

          ensure the timely processing of the Development Application, then the City shall

          promptly estimate the reasonably anticipated differential cost of Outsourcing in good

          faith consultation with the Applicant (either overtime to City employees or the hiring of a

          City Consultant). If Applicant notifies the City that it desires to proceed with the

          Outsourcing based on the City's estimate of costs, then Applicant shall deposit in

          advance with the City the estimated differential cost and the City shall then promptly

          proceed with having the work Outsourced. Upon completion of the Outsourcing services

          and the provision by the City of an invoice (with such reasonable supporting

          documentation as may be requested by Applicant) for the actual differential cost (whether

          by way of paying a City Consultant or paying overtime to City employees) of

          Outsourcing, Applicant shall, within thirty (30) calendar days pay or receive credit (as the

          case may be) for any difference between the estimated differential cost deposited for the

          Outsourcing and the actual cost differential.

          6.2. Acceptance of Certifications Required for Development Applications. Any

          Development Application requiring the signature, endorsement, or certification and/or

          stamping by a person holding a license or professional certification required by the State

          of Utah in a particular discipline shall be so signed, endorsed, certified or stamped

          signifying that the contents of the Development Application comply with the applicable

          regulatory standards of the City. The City should endeavor to make all of its redlines,

          comments or suggestions at the time of the first review of the Development Application
             I
          unless any changes to the Development Application raise new issues that need to be
Last Update Date 8/7/2024                   Draper City Contract #                           Page 13 of 32
          addressed.

          6.3. Independent Technical Analyses for Development Applications. If the City

          needs technical expertise beyond the City's internal resources to determine impacts of a

          Development Application such as for structures, bridges, water tanks, and other similar

          matters which are not required by the City's Vested Laws to be certified by such experts

          as part of a Development Application, the City may engage such experts as City

          Consultants with the actual and reasonable costs being the responsibility of Applicant.

          The City Consultant undertaking any review by the City required or permitted by

          this Agreement shall be selected from a list generated by the City for each such

          City review pursuant to a "request for proposal" process or as otherwise allowed

          by City ordinances or regulations. Applicant may, in its sole discretion, strike

          from the list of qualified proposers any of such proposed consultants so long as at

          least three (3) qualified proposers remain for selection. The anticipated cost and

          timeliness of such review may be a factor in choosing the expert. The actual and

          reasonable costs being the responsibility of Applicant.

          6.4. City Denial of a Development Application. If the City denies a Development

          Application the City shall provide a written determination advising the Applicant of the

          reasons for denial including specifying the reasons the City believes that the

          Development Application is not consistent with this Agreement, the Zoning and/or the

          City's Vested Laws (or, if applicable, the City's Future Laws).

          6.5. Meet and Confer regarding Development Application Denials. The City and

Casi Update Date 8/7/2024                   Draper City Con tract#                         Page 14 of32
         Applicant shall meet within twenty-one (21) calendar days of any Denial to resolve the

         issues specified in the Denial of a Development Application.

         6.6. City Denials of Development Applications Based on Denials from Non-City

         Agencies. If the City's denial of a Development Application is based on the denial of the

         Development Application by a Non-City Agency, Applicant shall appeal any such denial

         through the appropriate procedures for such a decision and not through the processes

         specified below.

         6. 7. Mediation of Development Application Denials.

               6.7.1. Issues Subject to Mediation. Issues resulting from the City' s Denial of a

               Development Application that the parties are not able to resolve by "Meet and

               Confer" shall be mediated.

               6.7.2. Mediation Process. If the City and Applicant are unable to resolve a

               disagreement subject to mediation, the parties shall attempt within fifteen (15)

               calendar days to appoint a mutually acceptable mediator with knowledge of the legal

               issue in dispute. If the City and Applicant are unable to agree on a single acceptable

               mediator, they shall each, within fifteen (15) calendar days, appoint their own

               representative. These two representatives shall, between them, choose the single

               mediator. Applicant and the City shall split the fees of the chosen mediator, each

               Party paying 50% of the fees . The chosen mediator shall within fifteen (15) calendar

               days, review the positions of the parties regarding the mediation issue and promptly

               attempt to mediate the issue between the parties. If the parties are unable to reach

               agreement, the mediator shall notify the parties in writing of the ordinance that the
as l U date Date 8/7/2024                    Draper City Contract #                           Page IS of32
                mediator deems appropriate. The mediator's opinion shall not be binding on the

               parties.

          6.8. Arbitration of Development Application Objections.

                6.8.1. Arbitration Process. lf the City and Applicant are unable to resolve an issue

               through mediation, the parties may then attempt within fifteen (15) calendar days to

               appoint a mutually acceptable arbitrator with knowledge of the legal issue in dispute.

               If the parties are unable to agree on a single acceptable arbitrator, they shall each,

               within fifteen (15) calendar days, each Party shall appoint their own individual

               appropriate expert. These two experts shall, between them, choose the single

               arbitrator. Applicant and the City shall split the fees of the chosen arbitrator, each

               Party paying 50% of the fees. The chosen arbitrator shall within fifteen (15) calendar

               days, review the positions of the parties regarding the arbitration issue and render a

               decision. The arbitrator shall ask the prevailing party to draft a proposed order for

               consideration and objection by the other side. Upon adoption by the arbitrator, and

               consideration of such objections, the arbitrator's decision shall be final and binding

               upon both parties. If the arbitrator determines as a part of the decision that the City's

               or Applicant's position was not only incorrect but was also maintained unreasonably

               and not in good faith then the arbitrator may order the City or Applicant to pay the

               arbitrator's fees.

     7. Application Under City's Future Laws. Without waiving any rights granted by this

Agreement, an Owner may at any time, choose to submit a Development Application for the


Last Update Date 8/7/2024                     DraJJer City Contract #                           Page 16 of 32
Project under the City's Future Laws in effect at the time of the Development Application so

long as the Owner is not in current breach of this Agreement.

     8. Public Infrastructure.

          8.1. Construction by and Owner(s). To the extent applicable to the Project and

          consistent with an approved Development Application, an Owner shall have the right and

          the obligation to construct or cause to be constructed and installed all Public

          Infrastructure reasonably and lawfully required as a condition of approval of the

          Development Application pursuant to the City's Vested Laws.

          8.2. Bonding. If and to the extent required by the City's Vested Laws, unless otherwise

          provided by Chapter 10-9a of the Utah Code as amended, if security for any Public or

          private Infrastructure is required by the City, Applicant shall provide it in a form

          acceptable to the City as specified in the City's Vested Laws. Partial releases of any such

          required security shall be made as work progresses based on the City's Vested Laws.

     9. Upsizing/Reimbursements to Owner(s).

          9.1. "Upsizing". The City shall not require any Owner to "upsize" any future Public

          Infrastructure (i.e., to construct the infrastructure to a size larger than required to service

          the Project) unless financial arrangements reasonably acceptable to such Owner are made

          to compensate the Owner for the incremental or additive costs of such upsizing. For

          example, if an upsizing to a water pipe size increases costs by 10% but adds 50% more

          capacity, the City shall only be responsible to compensate such Owner for the 10% cost

          increase. An acceptable financial arrangement for upsizing of improvements means

          reimbursement agreements, payback agreements, and impact fee credits and
Last Update Date 8/7/2024                     Draper City Contract #                             Page 17 of32
          reimbursements. It is not presently anticipated by the Parties that the City will require

           any Owner(s) to upsize any future Public Infrastructure for this Project.

     10. Default.

           10.1. Notice. If any Owner or the City fails to perform their respective obligations

          hereunder or to comply with the terms hereof, the Party believing that a Default has

          occurred shall provide Notice to the other Party. If the City believes that the Default has

          been committed by an individual Owner, then the City shall also provide a courtesy copy

          of the Notice to the other Owners.

           10.2. Contents of the Notice of Default. The Notice of Default shall:

                10.2.1. Specific Claim. Specify the claimed event of Default;

                10.2.2. Applicable Provisions. Identify with particularity the provisions of any

               applicable law, rule, regulation or provision of this Agreement that is claimed to be in

               Default;

                10.2.3. Materiality. Identify why the Default is claimed to be material; and

                10.2.4. Optional Cure. If the City chooses, in its discretion, it may propose a method

               and time for curing the Default which shall be of no less than thirty (30) calendar

               days duration.

          10.3. Meet and Confer, Mediation, Arbitration. Upon the issuance of a Notice of

          Default the parties shall engage in the "Meet and Confer" and "Mediation" processes

          specified in Sections 6.5 and 6.7. If the claimed Default is subject to Arbitration as

          provided in Section 6.8 then the parties shall follow such processes.

          10.4. Remedies. If the parties are not able to resolve the Default by "Meet and Confer"
Last Update Date 8/7/2024                     Draper City Contract #                           Page 18 of32
           or by "Mediation", and if the Default is not subject to arbitration, then the parties may

           have the following remedies, except as specifically limited in Section 10.9:

                10.4.1. Law and Equity. All rights and remedies available at law and in equity,

                including, but not limited to, injunctive relief and/or specific performance.

                10.4.2. Security. The right to draw on any security posted or provided in connection

                with the Project and relating to remedying of the particular Default.

                10.4.3. Future Approvals. The right to withhold all further reviews, approvals,

                licenses, building permits and/or other permits for development of the Project in the

                case of a collective default by the Owners, or in the case of a default by an individual

                Owner of a Parcel as to development of such Parcel owned by the particular Owner

                until the Default has been cured.

           10.5. Public Meeting. Before any remedy in Section 10.4 may be imposed by the City

          the party allegedly in Default shall be afforded the right to attend a public meeting before

          the City Council and address the City Council regarding the claimed Default.

          10.6. Emergency Defaults. Anything in this Agreement notwithstanding, if the City

          Council finds on the record that a default materially impairs a compelling, countervailing

          interest of the City and that any delays in imposing such a default would also impair a

          compelling, countervailing interest of the City then the City may impose the remedies of

          Section 10.4 without the requirements of Sections 10.5. The City shall give Notice to the

          Owners of any public meeting at which an emergency default is to be considered and the

          affected Owners shall be allowed to address the City Council at that meeting regarding

          the claimed emergency Default.
Last Update Date 8/7/2024                     Draper City Contract #                            Page 19 of32
           10.7. Extended Cure Period. If any Default cannot be reasonably cured within sixty

           (60) calendar days, then such cure period shall be extended so long as the defaulting

          party is pursuing a cure with reasonable diligence.

           10.8. Default of Assignee. A default of any obligations assumed by an assignee shall not

          be deemed a default of the original Owners.

           10.9. Limitation on Recovery for Default- No Damages. Anything in this Agreement

          notwithstanding no Party shall be entitled to any claim for any monetary damages as a

          result of any breach of this Agreement and each Party waives any claims thereto. The

          sole remedy available to any Party shall be that of specific performance.

     11. Notices. All notices required or permitted under this Agreement shall, in addition to any

other means of transmission, be given in writing by certified mail and regular mail to the

following address:

     To the Owners: At the addresses set forth below their signatures to this Agreement.

     To the City:

     Draper City
     Attn: City Manager
     Mike Barker
     1020 East Pioneer Road
     Draper, UT 84020
      Mike. barker@draper.ut. us
     (801) 576-6513




Last Update Date 8/7/2024                   Draper City Contract #                          Page 20 of 32
     With a Copy to:

     Draper City
     Attn: City Attorney
     Spencer DuShane
     1020 East Pioneer Road
     Draper, UT 84020
     Spencer.dushane@draperutah.gov
     (801) (to be provided by City)

           11.1 . Effectiveness of Notice. Except as otherwise provided in this Agreement, each

          Notice shall be effective and shall be deemed delivered on the earlier of:

                11.1.1. Hand Delivery. Its actual receipt, if delivered personally, by courier service,

                or by facsimile provided that a copy of the facsimile Notice is mailed or personally

                delivered as set forth herein on the same day and the sending party has confirmation

                of transmission receipt of the Notice. If the copy is not sent on the same day, then

                notice shall be deemed effective the date that the mailing or personal delivery occurs.

                11.1.2. Electronic Delivery. Its actual receipt if delivered electronically by email

               provided that a copy of the email is printed out in physical form and mailed or

               personally delivered as set forth herein on the same day and the sending party has an

               electronic receipt of the delivery of the Notice. If the copy is not sent on the same

               day, then notice shall be deemed effective the date that the mailing or personal

               delivery occurs.

                11.1.3. Mailing. On the day the Notice is postmarked for mailing, postage prepaid,

               by First Class or Certified United States Mail and actually deposited in or delivered to

               the United States Mail. Any party may change its address for Notice under this

               Agreement by giving written Notice to the other party in accordance with the
Last Update Date 8/7/2024                     Draper City Contract#                            Page 21 of'32
                provisions of this Section.

      12. Headings. The captions used in this Agreement are for convenience only and a not

intended to be substantive provisions or evidences of intent.

      13. No Third-Party Rights/No Joint Venture. This Agreement does not create a joint

venture relationship, partnership or agency relationship between the City, the Owners or any

Owner. Further, the parties do not intend this Agreement to create any third-party beneficiary

rights. The Parties acknowledge that this Agreement refers to a private development and that the

City has no interest in, responsibility for or duty to any third parties concerning any

improvements to the Property or unless the City has accepted the dedication of such

improvements at which time all rights and responsibilities- except for warranty bond

requirements under City' s Vested Laws and as allowed by state law- for the dedicated public

improvement shall be the City's.

     14. Assignability. The rights and responsibilities of an Owner under this Agreement may be

assigned in whole or in part, respectively, by an Owner to the purchaser or other transferee of fee

title to such Owner's Parcel. An Owner's transfer of all or any part of the Parcel to any entity

"related" to or controlled by such Owner (as defined by regulations of the Internal Revenue

Service in Section 165), or an Owner's pledging of part or all of a Parcel as security for

financing shall also not be deemed to be an "assignment". An Owner shall give the City Notice

of any event specified in this section within thirty (30) calendar days after the event has

occurred. Such Notice shall include providing the City with all necessary contact information

for the newly responsible Owner. Any assignee of any Owner shall, if requested by the City,


Last Update Date 8/7/2024                     Draper City Contract #                          Page 22 of 32
consent in writing to be bound by the assigned terms and conditions of this Agreement as a

condition precedent to the effectiveness of the assignment.

    15. Binding Effect. If any Owner sells or conveys a Parcel to a purchaser or transferee, the

Parcel so sold and conveyed shall bear the same rights, privileges, configurations, and number of

Residential Dwelling Units as applicable to such Parcel and be subject to the same limitations

and rights of the City as when owned by the previous Owner and as set forth in this Agreement

without any required approval, review, or consent by the City except as otherwise provided

herein.

    16. No Waiver. Failure of any Party hereto to exercise any right hereunder shall not be

deemed a waiver of any such right and shall not affect the right of such party to exercise at some

future date any such right or any other right it may have.

    17. Severability. If any provision of this Agreement is held by a court of competent

jurisdiction to be invalid for any reason, the Parties consider and intend that this Agreement shall

be deemed amended to the extent necessary to make it consistent with such decision and the

balance of this Agreement shall remain in full force and affect.

    18. Force Majeure. Any prevention, delay or stoppage of the performance of any obligation

under this Agreement which is due to strikes, labor disputes, inability to obtain labor, materials,

equipment or reasonable substitutes therefor; acts of nature, governmental restrictions,

regulations or controls, judicial orders, enemy or hostile government actions, wars, civil

commotions, fires or other casualties or other causes beyond the reasonable control of the Party

obligated to perform hereunder shall excuse performance of the obligation by that Party for a

period equal to the duration of that prevention, delay or stoppage.
Last Update Date 8/7/2024                 Draper Cit y Contract #                            Page 23 of32
     19. Time is of the Essence. Time is of the essence to this Agreement and every right or

responsibility shall be performed within the times specified.

     20. Appointment of Representatives. To further the commitment of the Parties to

cooperate in the implementation of this Agreement, the City and Owners each shall designate

and appoint a representative to act as a liaison between the City and its various departments and

the Owners. The initial representative for the City shall be the City Manager. The initial

representative for the Owners shall be Chad Evans. The Parties may change their designated

representatives by Notice. The representatives shall be available at all reasonable times to

discuss and review the performance of the Parties to this Agreement and the development of the

Project.

     21. Applicable Law. This Agreement is entered into in Salt Lake County in the State of

Utah and shall be construed in accordance with the laws of the State of Utah irrespective of

Utah' s choice of law rules.

     22. Venue. Any action to enforce this Agreement shall be brought only in the Third District

Court for the State of Utah, Salt Lake City Division.

     23. Entire Agreement. This Agreement, and all Exhibits thereto, is the entire agreement

between the Parties and may not be amended or modified except either as provided herein or by

a subsequent written amendment signed by all Parties. This Agreement may be signed in

counterparts, which taken together shall constitute a single original instrument.

     24. Mutual Drafting. Each Party has participated in negotiating and drafting this

Agreement and therefore no provision of this Agreement shall be construed for or against any

Party based on which Party drafted any particular portion of this Agreement.
Last Update Date 8/7/2024                 Draper City Contract #                          Page 24 of 32
     25. Recordation and Running with the Land. This Agreement shall be recorded in the

chain of title for the Parcels comprising the Project. This Agreement shall be deemed to run with

the land. The data disk of the City' s Vested Laws, Exhibit "C", shall not be recorded in the

chain of title. A secure copy of Exhibit "C" shall be filed with the City Recorder and each party

shall also have an identical copy.

     26. Authority. The Parties to this Agreement each warrant that they have all of the

necessary authority to execute this Agreement. Specifically, on behalf of the City, the signature

of the City Manager of the City is affixed to this Agreement lawfully binding the City pursuant

to Ordinance No. _          adopted by the City on _ __ _ _ _ , 2024.

          IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have executed this Agreement by and through

their respective, duly authorized representatives as of the day and year first herein above written.




Last Update Date 8/7/2024                   Draper Cit:t Contract #                        Page 25 of 32
  OWNERS                                              DRAPER CITY

  "Evans"

                                                      By:------------
  Karen Evans, as Trustee                             Its: City Manager
  12751 S. Costanza Way                               Date: - - - - - - - - - - - -
  Draper, Utah 84020


 "Richins"                                            Approved as to form and legality:


 Vern Leland Richins, as Trustee of the               City Attorney
 Vern Leland Richins and Linda Asay
 Richins Living Trust

                                                      Attest:
 Linda A. Richins, as Trustee of the
 Vern Leland Richins and Linda Asay
 Richins Living Trust                                 City Recorder

 c/o 12741 S. Costanza Way
 Draper, Utah 84020




Last Update Date 8/7/2024                 Draper City Contract #                          Page 26 of 32
CITY ACKNOWLEDGMENT

STATE OF UTAH                )
                                 :ss.
COUNTY OF SALT LAKE )

        On the _ _ day of _ _ _ _ _ _ , 2024 personally appeared before me
_ _ _ _ _who being by me duly sworn, did say that he is the City Manager of Draper City, a
political subdivision of the State of Utah, and that said instrument was signed in behalf of the
City by authority of its City Council and said City Manager acknowledged to me that the City
executed the same.


                                             NOTARY PUBLIC


My Commission Expires:

Residing at: _ _ _ _ _ __ _ __ _




Last Update Date 8/7/2024               Draper City Contract #                         Page 27 of 32
                            OWNER ACKNOWLEDGMENTS

STATE OF UTAH                )
                             :ss.
COUNTY OF - - --             )

        On the _ _ day of _____ , 2024, personally appeared before me Karen Evans,
who being by me duly sworn, did say that she executed the foregoing Agreement in her capacity
as duly authorized Trustee of a trust.



                                                        NOTARY PUBLIC

My Commission Expires:
Residing at:



STATE OF UTAH                )
                             :ss.
COUNTY OF - - - -            )

       On the _ _ day of _____ , 2024, personally appeared before me Vern Leland
Richins and Linda Richins, who being by me duly sworn, did say that they executed the
foregoing Agreement in their capacity as Trustees of the Vern Leland Richins and Linda Asay
Richins Living Trust.



                                                        NOTARY PUBLIC

My Commission Expires: _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __
Residing at: _ _ _ _ __ _ _ __ __ _ _




Last Update Date 8/7/2024              Draper C ity Contract #                       Page 28 of 32
                             TABLE OF EXHIBITS


Exhibit "A"                           Legal Description of Property
Exhibit "B"                           Master Plan
Exhibit "C"                           City ' s Vested Laws




Last Upd ate Date 8/7/2024      Draper City Contract #                Page 29 of 32
                                            Exhibit "A"
                            Richins and Evans Property Legal Descriptions
                                           (Updated 8/6/2024)


Vern L. & Linda A. Richins Trust
Parcel: 28-33-129-019
Legal Description:
A PARCEL OF LAND LOCATED IN THE NORTHWEST QUARTER OF SECTION 33, TOWNSHIP 3 SOUTH,
RANGE 1 EAST, SALT LAKE BASE & MERIDIAN, SAID PARCEL BEING A PORTION OF THAT CERTAIN
PARCEL CONVEYED BY QUIT CLAIM DEED RECORDED FEBRUARY 27, 1995, AS ENTRY NO. 6029215,
IN BOOK 7107 AT PAGE 943, IN THE OFFICE OF THE SALT LAKE COUNTY RECORDER, SAID PARCEL
BEING DESCRIBED MORE PARTICULARLY AS FOLLOWS:
BEGINNING AT A POINT ON THE SOUTH LINE OF THE NOORDA SUBDIVISION, AS RECORDED IN
BOOK 2016P AT PAGE 133, IN THE OFFICE OF SAID COUNTY RECORDER, SAID POINT ALSO BEING
THE NORTHEAST CORNER OF THE DRAPER CITY PARCEL CONVEYED BY WARRANTY DEED
RECORDED SEPTEMBER 09, 1991 , AS ENTRY NO. 5123414, IN BOOK 6354 AT PAGE 873 , IN THE OFFICE
OF SAID COUNTY RECORDER, SAID POINT BEING SOUTH 0°21 '12" WEST 812.69 FEET (SOUTH
0°02'20" WEST 803.933 FEET BY DEED) ALONG THE SECTION LINE AND EAST 1669.55 FEET (1666.45
FEET BY DEED) TO SAID SOUTH LINE AND SOUTH 88°48'58" EAST 47.34 FEET (SOUTH 89°02'41"
EAST BY DEED) ALONG SAID SOUTH LINE FROM THE NORTHWEST CORNER OF SAID SECTION 33,
AND RUNNING THENCE SOUTH 88°48'58" EAST 443.24 FEET (SOUTH 89°02'41" EAST BY DEED)
ALONG SAID SOUTH LINE TO THE WESTERLY LINE OF WHAT WAS HISTORICALLY THE UTAH
LAKE IRRIGATION COMPANY CANAL, CURRENTLY THE DRAPER CITY PARCEL; THENCE SOUTH
19°04'56" EAST 171.54 FEET (SOUTH 19°14'34" EAST 167.55 FEET BY DEED) ALONG SAID WESTERLY
LINE TO A POINT ON THE NORTH LINE OF LOT A, SOMERSET RIDGE SUBDIVISION, AS RECORDED
IN BOOK 2001 P AT PAGE 145 IN THE OFFICE OF SAID COUNTY RECORDER; THENCE SOUTH
89°52'39" WEST 403 .84 FEET (NORTH 89°55'41 " WEST BY DEED AND SOUTH 89°39'00" WEST BY
PLAT) ALONG SAID NORTH LINE TO THE SOUTHEAST CORNER OF SAID DRAPER CITY PARCEL;
THENCE NORTHWESTERLY ALONG THE EAST LINE OF SAID DRAPER CITY PARCEL THE
FOLLOWING 3 COURSES: 1) NORTH 34°56' 18" WEST 100.34 FEET (SOUTH 35°10'00" EAST 92.06 FEET
BY DEED) TO A POINT OF CURVATURE, 2) NORTHWESTERLY ALONG THE ARC OF A I 00.00 FOOT
CURVE TO THE RIGHT THROUGH A CENTRAL ANGLE OF 13 °45' 04" A DISTANCE OF 24.00 FEET,
CHORD BEARS NORTH 28°03'48" WEST 23.94 FEET, 3) NORTH 21°1 I ' 16" WEST 73.73 FEET (SOUTH
21 °25'00" EAST BY DEED) TO THE POINT OF BEGINNING

Karen Evans Trust
Parcel: 28-33-130-024
Legal Description:
BEGINNING AT A POINT SOUTH 0°32'06" WEST ALONG THE SECTION LINE 693 .00 FEET AND NORTH
89°25'50" WEST I 186.89 FEET AND NORTH 89° 14 '30" WEST 800.00 FEET AND NORTH 89°35'40" WEST
554.15 FEET FROM THE NORTHEAST CORNER OF SECTION 33, TOWNSHIP 3 SOUTH, RANGE I EAST,
SALT LAKE BASE & MERIDIAN, AND RUNNING THENCE SOUTH 30°28'20" WEST 327.92 FEET;
THENCE SOUTH 89°52'39" WEST 288.20 FEET, MORE OR LESS, TO THE EAST LINE OF THE UTAH
IRRIGATION COMPANY CANAL; THENCE NORTH I 9°04'56" WEST 298.96 FEET; THENCE NORTH
89°55'35" EAST 552.23 FEET TO THE POINT OF BEGINNING.


Last Update Date 8/7/2024                   Draper City Contract #                  Page 30 of 32
                              EXHIBIT"B"
                               Master Plan




Last Update Date 8/7/2024   Draper City Contract#   Page 31 of32
                                           LEGEND:
                                           EVANS


                                           RICHI NS




                                                           ~
                                                           0 25' 50
                                                                       ~    100      150'

                                                                   SCALE 1"=100'
                                31'
                                ?6'
                                                          WARHORSE RANCH
       r - -~ - ~ ~ - . ' 4           ']
C::::,:w-./Lfff_d1/,&...;&2r~                               MASTER PLAN
         31' WIDE CROSS SECTION                               EXHIBIT B
         WITH CURB AND GUTTER                         CONTACT:       DRAWN BY:       DATE:
                                                      CHAD EVANS     TAYLOR MORGAN   09/09/24
               NO SIDEWALK
                                                                   SHEET I OF I
                             Exhibit "C"
                         City's Vested Laws




~ Update Date 8/7/2024    Draper City Contract #   Page 32 of 32
