MEMO
To: Planning Commission
From: Nick Whittaker
Date: 2025-06-12
Re: Public Hearing: SolMotion Manual Therapy Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit
Request (Administrative Item)


Comments:


This application is a request for approval of a Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit
for approximately 0.28 acres located on the South side of Harvest Oaks Cir. at
approximately 1858 E. Harvest Oaks Cir. The property is currently zoned RM (Multiple
Dwelling Unit Residential) Zone and is part of the South Mountain Development
Agreement. The applicant is requesting that a Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit
be approved to allow for a Personal Care Services Business which provides manual
therapy.




Findings for approval:


  1. The proposed use will not be detrimental to the health, safety or general warfare of
     persons residing or working in the vicinity, or will be injurious to property or
     improvements in the vicinity.
  2. The propose use is necessary or desirable to provide a service or facility which will
     contribute to the general well-being of the neighborhood and the community.
  3. The proposed use complies with the regulations and conditions specified in Section
     9-4-104 of the 1999 DCMC for home occupations.
  4. The proposal complies with the standards for approval found in the 1999 DCMC,
     Subsection 9-2-104(e) including the regulations in Section 9-4-104 of and potential
     negative impacts to adjacent properties and the public welfare are mitigated
     through the imposition of reasonable conditions necessary or desirable for the
     protection of the same.




Findings for denial:
  1. The proposed use will be detrimental to the health, safety or general warfare of
     persons residing or working in the vicinity, or will be injurious to property or
     improvements in the vicinity.
  2. The propose use is not necessary or desirable to provide a service or facility which
     will contribute to the general well-being of the neighborhood and the community.
  3. The proposed use does not comply with one or more of the regulations or
     conditions specified in Section 9-4-104 of the 1999 DCMC for home occupations.
  4. The proposal does not comply with the standards for approval found in the 1999
     DCMC, Subsection 9-2-104(e) including the regulations in Section 9-4-104 of and
     potential negative impacts to adjacent properties and the public welfare are
     mitigated through the imposition of reasonable conditions necessary or desirable
     for the protection of the same.




ATTACHMENTS:

SolMotion Staff Report 2024-0446-USE.pdf
