                                  Development Review Committee
                                      1020 East Pioneer Road
                                        Draper, UT 84020
                                         October 8, 2025

To:             Draper City Planning Commission
                Business Date: November 13, 2025

From:           Development Review Committee

Prepared By: Nick Whittaker, MCMP, Planner II
             Planning Division
             Community Development Department
             801-576-6522, nick.whittaker@draperutah.gov

Re:     Fetzer – Land Use Map and Zoning Map Amendment Requests
        Application No.: 2025-0192-MA & 2025-0193-MA
        Applicant:        Robert Fetzer
        Project Location: 1394 E. 12900 S.
        Current Zoning: RA2 (Residential Agricultural, 20,000 ft² min. lot size)
        Acreage:          0.89 Acres (Approximately 38768 ft2)
        Request:          Request for approval of a Land Use Map Amendment to change
                          the current land use designation from Residential Low/Medium
                          Density to Residential Medium Density and a Zoning Map
                          Amendment to change the current zoning designation from RA2
                          to R3 (Single-Family Residential, 13,000 ft2 min lot size).



BACKGROUND AND SUMMARY

These applications are requests for approval of a Land Use Map Amendment to change the
current land use designation from Residential Low/Medium Density to Residential Medium
Density and a Zoning Map Amendment to change the current zoning designation from RA2
to R3 for approximately 0.89 acres located on the south side of 12900 S. at approximately
1394 E. 12900 S. (Exhibits C and D). The applicant is requesting that the changes be
approved so that the subject property can be subdivided to create one (1) additional lot for
construction of a single-family home.

The subject property is not part of an existing subdivision. A single-family home which
fronts onto 12900 S. was built on the subject property in approximately 1992.



Fetzer                                                              App. # 2025-0192-MA
Land Use & Zoning Map Amendment                                            2025-0193-MA
                                                1
ANALYSIS

General Plan and Zoning.
 Table 1                  General Plan and Zoning Designations                    Exhibit
 Existing Land Use        Residential Low/Medium Density                          Exhibit E
 Current Zoning           RA2                                                     Exhibit F
 Adjacent Zoning
    East                  RA2
    West                  RA2
    North                 R3
    South                 RA2

The Residential Low/Medium Density land use designation is characterized as follows:




According to Draper City Municipal Code (DCMC) Section 9-8-020 the purpose of the RA2
zone is to, “foster low density development with little impact on its surroundings and
municipal services; to generally preserve the character of the city's semirural areas; and to
promote and preserve conditions favorable to large lot family life, including the keeping of


Fetzer                                                               App. # 2025-0192-MA
Land Use & Zoning Map Amendment                                             2025-0193-MA
                                              2
limited numbers of animals and fowl. The predominant use in these zones is intended to
be detached single-family dwellings, protected from encroachment by commercial and
industrial uses.”

Land Use Map Amendment. The applicant has requested a land use amendment to the
Residential Medium Density land use designation (Exhibit G). The proposed designation is
compatible with the requested zoning designation of R3 (Exhibit H).

The Residential Medium Density land use designation is described as follows:




Zoning Map Amendment. The applicant has requested the R3 zoning designation for the
subject property (Exhibit H). According to Draper City Municipal Code (DCMC) Section 9-8-
020, the purpose of the R3 zone is to “permit medium density residential development
without special mitigation requirements. This zone is intended to provide incentives to
foster residential development with little impact on its surroundings and on municipal
services, and to generally preserve the semirural character called for in the density element
of the general plan.

The R3 zone allows single-family dwellings on lots of at least 13,000 square feet in size. This
proposed zoning designation would allow the property to be subdivided into two (2) lots.



Fetzer                                                                App. # 2025-0192-MA
Land Use & Zoning Map Amendment                                              2025-0193-MA
                                               3
Criteria for Approval

Land Use Map Amendment:
The Land Use Map amendment request falls under DCMC Section 9-2-020(F) because the
Land Use Map is part of Draper City’s General Plan. That section lists the following criteria
for a General Plan amendment as:

        Plan Amendment: All plan amendments shall be in accordance with Utah Code
        Annotated 10-9a-404, as amended and, unless requested by the city's legislative
        body, shall follow the procedures as outlined in Draper City Municipal Code 9-5-
        060(D). That section is noted as follows:

        D.      Procedure: Zoning text and map amendments shall be considered and
                processed as provided in this subsection:
                1.    A complete application shall be submitted to the office of the Zoning
                      Administrator in a form established by the administrator along with
                      any fee established by the city’s schedule of fees. The application
                      shall include at least the following information:
                      a.      The name, address and telephone number of the applicant
                              and the applicant’s agent, if any.
                      b.      The name and address of every person or company the
                              applicant represents.
                      c.      The requested amendment and reasons supporting the
                              request.
                      d.      If the proposed amendment requires a change in the zoning
                              map, the application shall include:
                              (1)      An accurate property map showing present and
                                       proposed zoning classifications;
                              (2)      All abutting properties showing present zoning
                                       classifications; and
                              (3)      An accurate legal description and an approximate
                                       common address of the area proposed to be rezoned.
                      e.      If the proposed amendment requires a change in the text of
                              this title, the application shall include chapter and section
                              references and a draft of the proposed text.
                2.    After the application is determined to be complete, the zoning
                      administrator shall prepare a staff report evaluating the application.
                3.    The Planning Commission shall schedule and hold a public hearing on
                      the application as provided in sections 9-5-040 and 9-5-045 of this
                      chapter. Following the public meeting, the Planning Commission shall
                      recommend approval, approval with modifications, or denial of the
                      proposed amendment and shall submit its recommendation to the
                      City Council for review and decision.


Fetzer                                                               App. # 2025-0192-MA
Land Use & Zoning Map Amendment                                             2025-0193-MA
                                              4
                4.      The City Council shall schedule and hold a public hearing on the
                        application as provided in sections 9-5-040 and 9-5-045 of this
                        chapter. Following the public hearing, the City Council may approve,
                        approve with modifications, or deny the proposed amendment.

Zoning Map Amendment 9-5-060(E)
A Map Amendment is a matter committed to the legislative discretion of the City Council
and is not controlled by any one standard. However, in making a recommendation to the
City Council, the Planning Commission should consider the following factors in Section 9-5-
060(E)(1) of the DCMC:

        1. Map Amendments:
            a. Whether the proposed amendment is consistent with goals, objectives and
               policies of the city's general plan;
            b. Whether the proposed amendment is harmonious with the overall character
               of existing development in the vicinity of the subject property;
            c. Whether the proposed amendment is consistent with the standards of any
               applicable overlay zone;
            d. The extent to which the proposed amendment may adversely affect adjacent
               property; and
            e. The adequacy of facilities and services intended to serve the subject
               property, including, but not limited to, roadways, parks and recreation
               facilities, police and fire protection, schools, stormwater drainage systems,
               water supplies, and wastewater and refuse collection.

In reviewing the requests, staff noted surrounding land uses and intensities should be
considered in evaluating the proposals. There are other properties adjacent to the north
side of the subject property and in the general area with the same zoning and land use
designations. Staff generally agrees with the applicant’s assertions in their requests
(Exhibits G and H) that the proposed Medium Density Land Use Designation and R3 zoning
would harmonize with other developments near the subject property and provide a
creative in-fill solution.



REVIEWS

Planning Division Review. The Draper City Planning Division has completed their review of
the Land Use Map and Zoning Map Amendment submissions. Comments from this
division, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Engineering and Public Works Divisions Review. The Draper City Engineering and Public
Works Divisions have completed their reviews of the Land Use Map and Zoning Map
Amendment submissions. Comments from these divisions, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.


Fetzer                                                                App. # 2025-0192-MA
Land Use & Zoning Map Amendment                                              2025-0193-MA
                                                5
Building Division Review. The Draper City Building Division has completed their review of
the Land Use Map and Zoning Map Amendment submissions. Comments from this
division, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Fire Division Review. The Draper City Fire Marshal has completed his review of the Land
Use Map and Zoning Map Amendment submissions. Comments from this division, if any,
can be found in Exhibit A.

Legal Division Review. The Draper City Attorney has completed his review of the Land Use
Map and Zoning Map Amendment submissions. Comments from this division, if any, can
be found in Exhibit A.

GIS Division Review. The Draper City GIS Division has completed their review of the Land
Use Map and Zoning Map Amendment Submissions. Comments from this division, if any,
can be found in Exhibit A.

Noticing. Notice has been properly issued in the manner outlined in the City and State
Codes.



STAFF RECOMMENDATION

Staff recommends that the Planning Commission review the request, receive public
comment, and make a recommendation to the City Council based on the findings and
criteria for approval, or denial, as listed within the staff report.



MODEL MOTIONS

Land Use Map Amendment
Sample Motion for Positive Recommendation – I move that we forward a positive
recommendation to the City Council for the Land Use Map Amendment, as requested by
Robert Fetzer, application 2025-0193-MA, based on the findings for approval listed in the
Staff Report dated October 8, 2025.

Findings for Approval:
1.     The proposed land use map amendment is consistent with goals, objectives, and
       policies of the city's general plan.
2.     The proposed land use map amendment is harmonious with the overall character
       of existing development in the vicinity of the subject property.
3.     The proposed land use map amendment will not adversely affect adjacent property.




Fetzer                                                             App. # 2025-0192-MA
Land Use & Zoning Map Amendment                                           2025-0193-MA
                                             6
4.      There are adequate facilities and services intended to serve the subject property,
        including, but not limited to, roadways, parks and recreation facilities, police and fire
        protection, schools, stormwater drainage systems, water supplies, and wastewater
        and refuse collection.
5.      The proposed land use map amendment complies with DCMC Section 9-2-020(F).
6.      The legislative body may adopt any amendment to the general plan land use map
        that the legislative body considers appropriate.

Sample Motion for Modified Positive Recommendation – I move that we forward a positive
recommendation to the City Council for the Land Use Map Amendment, as requested by
Robert Fetzer, application 2025-0193-MA, based on the findings for approval listed in the
Staff Report dated October 8, 2025 and as modified by the following additional findings:

1.      (List additional findings for approval…)

Sample Motion for Negative Recommendation – I move that we forward a negative
recommendation to the City Council for the Land Use Map Amendment, as requested by
Robert Fetzer, application 2025-0193-MA, based on the findings for denial listed in the Staff
Report dated October 8, 2025.

Findings for Denial:
1.     The proposed land use map amendment is not consistent with goals, objectives,
       and policies of the city's general plan.
2.     The proposed land use map amendment is not harmonious with the overall
       character of existing development in the vicinity of the subject property.
3.     The proposed land use map amendment will adversely affect adjacent property.
4.     There are not adequate facilities and services intended to serve the subject
       property, including, but not limited to, roadways, parks and recreation facilities,
       police and fire protection, schools, stormwater drainage systems, water supplies,
       and wastewater and refuse collection.
6.     The proposed land use map amendment does not comply with DCMC Section 9-2-
       020(F).
5.     The legislative body may reject any amendment to the general plan land use map
       that the legislative body considers appropriate.

Zoning Map Amendment
Sample Motion for Positive Recommendation – I move that we forward a positive
recommendation to the City Council for approval of the Zoning Map Amendment, as
requested by Robert Fetzer, application 2025-0192-MA, based on the following findings for
approval listed in the Staff Report dated October 8, 2025.

Findings for Approval:
   1. The proposed zoning map amendment is consistent with goals, objectives, and


Fetzer                                                                 App. # 2025-0192-MA
Land Use & Zoning Map Amendment                                               2025-0193-MA
                                                7
       policies of the city's general plan.
    2. The proposed zoning map amendment is compatible with the subject properties
       existing Land Use Designation and harmonious with the overall character of existing
       development in the vicinity of the subject property.
    3. The proposed zoning map amendment will not adversely affect adjacent property.
    4. There are adequate facilities and services intended to serve the subject property,
       including, but not limited to, roadways, parks and recreation facilities, police and fire
       protection, schools, stormwater drainage systems, water supplies, and wastewater
       and refuse collection.

Sample Motion for Modified Positive Recommendation – I move that we forward a positive
recommendation to the City Council for the Zoning Map Amendment, as requested by
Robert Fetzer, application 2025-0192-MA, based on the findings for approval listed in the
Staff Report dated October 8, 2025 and as modified by the following additional findings:

    1. (List additional findings for approval…)

Sample Motion for Negative Recommendation – I move that we forward a negative
recommendation to the City Council for denial of the Zoning Map Amendment, as
requested by Robert Fetzer application 2025-0192-MA, based on the following findings for
denial listed in the Staff Report dated October 8, 2025.

Findings for Denial:
   1. The proposed zoning map amendment is not consistent with goals, objectives, and
       policies of the city's general plan.
   2. The proposed zoning map amendment is not compatible with the subject properties
       existing Land Use Designation and is not harmonious with the overall character of
       existing development in the vicinity of the subject property.
   3. The proposed zoning map amendment will adversely affect adjacent property.
   4. There are not adequate facilities and services intended to serve the subject
       property, including, but not limited to, roadways, parks and recreation facilities,
       police and fire protection, schools, stormwater drainage systems, water supplies,
       and wastewater and refuse collection.




Fetzer                                                                 App. # 2025-0192-MA
Land Use & Zoning Map Amendment                                               2025-0193-MA
                                               8
                  DEVELOPMENT REVIEW COMMITTEE ACKNOWLEDGEMENT


We, the undersigned, as duly appointed members of the Draper City Development Review
Committee, do acknowledge that the application which provides the subject for this staff
report has been reviewed by the Committee and has been found to be appropriate for
review by the Draper City Planning Commission and/or City Council.

                                                                                             OigiUJV SjgriM By TBdo A.
                       Digitally Signed by Brien Maiheid
                       DN:C»US.                                                              ON:CkUS.
                       £-brlen.inaxhol(3@0raporuiah gov,
 Brien Maxfield OcDraper, OU=Public Works ●                                                  E>load.clmper@sraper.ul.Lis.
                                                                        Todd A. Draper O-O^apar Cily Planning.
                       Engineering, CN<Br.on Maxlield                                        CN..T<^A. Draper
                       Date-2025. to. 14 10:26:16 06'00'                                     Daiai 202S.I0.I4
                                                                                             1S.4SJS 06211:


Draper City Public Works Department                              Draper City Planning Division


                           nytiPi      by o»«


   Don Buckley             OM
                                                         AucMn




Draper City Fire Department                                      'Draper Cit$' Legal counsel

                        OtQi'tfy signvd by        Symos

 Matthew Symes
                        OK C«U$, E-matl.symos^brapcrvta^ gov,
                        0-Drsv>«^ Ciiy Corp,. CN»Manh«w Symos
                        Cue: S025.10.14 09:03 42 0600'




Draper City Building Division
                                     EXHIBIT A
                                DEPARTMENT REVIEWS

REVIEWS ARE NOT MEANT TO BE AN ALL INCLUSIVE LIST OF POSSIBLE COMMENTS OR
CONDITIONS.

Planning Division Review.
   1. No additional comments.



Engineering and Public Works Divisions Review.
   1. The change in zone from Residential / Agricultural (RA2) to Residential (R3) is
      proposing to change from low density residential use to a higher residential
      density. This change in zoning represents a minor increase demand on the
      streets and utilities. Based on the subject parcel size, the proposed zone will
      double the density and increase traffic from the current approximately one
      peak hour trip and approximate 9 vehicle trips per day to the proposed
      density of approximately 2 peak hour trips and approximately 18 vehicle
      trips per day. The site has access to 12900 South, a local residential street.
      Based on the capacity of the fronting public street and the proximity to 1300
      East, a major collector, the change in zone has the potential increase traffic
      minimally on 12900 South and adjoining Boulter Street, another local
      residential street, but does not represent a significant increase where any
      mitigation would be required. Typically, a use where 100 peak hour trips are
      generated triggers the need to have a traffic impact study (TIS) completed to
      analyze mitigation requirements. The size of the subject parcel and the
      potential number of trips generated from a parcel of this size does not
      trigger a TIS. There are no existing public frontage improvements on the
      fronting public street and installation of those improvements would be
      required with any development.

   2. Connectivity with the subject parcels to public right-of-way is to 12900 South,
      a local residential street. Accesses are required to meet Draper City
      standards as outlined in our Master Transportation Plan and city code. Any
      development on the site will need to be evaluated for access location to
      comply with the required spacing based on the city’s access spacing
      requirements. Access is evaluated at the time of a site plan or subdivision
      application.
   3. There are existing storm drainage facilities fronting the subject parcel. Any
      future change in site drainage will be required to be addressed with any
      subdivision or site plan application and shall comply with the provisions of
      the development requirements within the Draper City Municipal Code.

   4. Sanitary sewer facilities will be provided by Jordan Basin Improvement
      District. Any subdivision or site plan application will require a commitment to
      serve from the sewer district that facilities are adequate to provide service
      for the proposed uses.

   5. Drinking water is provided by WaterPro to the subject parcel. Any subdivision
      or site plan application will require a commitment to serve from WaterPro
      that facilities are adequate to provide service for the proposed uses. This
      commitment is made at the time of subdivision or site plan approval.


Building Division Review.
   1. No additional comments.



Fire Division Review.
   1. No additional comments.



Legal Division Review.
   1. No additional comments.



GIS Division Review.
   1. No additional comments.
    EXHIBIT B
LEGAL DESCRIPTION
  EXHIBIT C
VICINITY MAP
 EXHIBIT D
AERIAL MAP
  EXHIBIT E
LAND USE MAP
 EXHIBIT F
ZONING MAP
                    EXHIBIT G
APPLICANT’S RESPONSES – LAND USE MAP AMENDMENT
General Plan Land Use Map Amendment Questionnaire


1. 1394 E 12900 S is currently designated as Low-Medium Residential, and we would like to
   amend it to Medium Density Single-family Residential R3.
2. We are requesting the land use map amendment of 1394 E 12900 S to allow for R3 zoning
   so that the lot can be subdivided, and a single-family home can be built on the north half of
   the property.
3. The requested land use designation is harmonious with the overall character of existing
   development in the vicinity by maintaining a large lot single-family neighborhood that
   allows for enhancement of Draper’s rural character. The R3 zoning is not currently
   compatible with the land use designation, however, the change to medium density is very
   similar to the land use in the area and there is medium density designation currently in the
   vicinity.
4. The proposed land use designation is consistent with the goals, objectives, and policies of
   the City’s General Plan. Amending the land map and subdividing and rezoning the property
   to a medium density with R3 designation will still maintain the integrity of the surrounding
   area while promoting more high-quality housing and smart growth. Amending the land use
   map for this lot is in line with the city’s housing and neighborhood goal to “seek creative
   infill development strategies” and to “provide the opportunity for comfortable and well-
   maintained housing for all residents.” It also supports the city’s goal to “support the
   development of a full range of housing for seniors to age in place.”
Proposed land use
amendment for
1394 E 12900 S
from Low-Medium
Density
to Medium Density
                   EXHIBIT H
APPLICANT’S RESPONSES – ZONING MAP AMENDMENT
Zoning Map Amendment Questionnaire

1. The requested zoning designation is from RA2 to R3.
2. We are requesting rezoning because my parents, Robert and Debbie Fetzer, who live at 1394
   E 12900 S, Draper, UT are getting older. My father is struggling with a heart condition. They
   want to remain in their home, but their large property is becoming too difficult to maintain
   on their own. We would like to subdivide the property so that we can build a home on the
   north end of the property and help take care of them as they age.
3. The requested zoning designation is harmonious with the overall character of existing
   development in the vicinity of the subject property because it would be just under the 0.5-
   acre current zoning requirements. There are also other properties designated as R3
   currently in the area and it is a way to meet the city’s goal of developing high-quality
   housing and smart growth in Draper.
4. Facilities and services to serve the property under the proposed zoning plan are sufficient.
   The subdivided property would be off 12900 South allowing easy access to the property and
   the ability to tie into existing utilities, etc. We plan to apply for a Minor Subdivision and to
   widen the existing private lane with a turnaround to ensure we are meeting city codes and
   requirements.
5. The proposed zoning designation is consistent with the goals, objectives, and policies of the
   City’s General Plan. It is in line with the cities number one value - Unity. This rezoning will
   allow us, as our parent’s neighbors, to work together in maintaining a strong community. It
   also addresses the value Quality of Life. This rezoning will allow our elderly parents to feel
   safe, remain in place, and enjoy the culture and life they have built in Draper. Subdividing
   and rezoning the property will promote more high-quality housing and smart growth while
   still maintaining the integrity of an aging area of Draper. Rezoning this lot is in line with the
   city’s housing and neighborhood goal to “seek creative infill development strategies” and to
   “provide the opportunity for comfortable and well-maintained housing for all residents.” It
   also supports the city’s goal to “support the development of a full range of housing for
   seniors to age in place.”
Proposed zoning
    change to
 1394 E 12900 S
 from RA2 to R3
