                                     Development Review Committee
                                         1020 East Pioneer Road
                                           Draper, UT 84020
                                             May 29, 2025

To:               Draper City Planning Commission
                  Business Date: June 12, 2025

From:             Development Review Committee

Prepared By: Todd Taylor, Planner III
             Planning Division
             Community Development Department
             801-576-6510, todd.taylor@draperutah.gov

Re:      City Initiated New and Unlisted Land Uses – Zoning Text Amendment Request
         Application No.: 2025-0115-TA
         Applicant:         Draper City
         Project Location: City Wide
         Current Zoning: City Wide
         Acreage:           City Wide
         Request:           Request for approval of a Zoning Text Amendment to Sections 9-
                            3-040, 9-3-060, and 9-8-050 of the Draper City Municipal Code
                            (DCMC) in order to address recent changes to Utah State Code
                            related to the classification and approval of new and unlisted land
                            uses.



BACKGROUND AND SUMMARY

This application is a request for approval of a Zoning Text Amendment for the purpose of
amending Sections 9-3-040, 9-3-060 and 9-8-050 of the DCMC, Title 9, to address recent
changes to Utah State Code.

The 2025 Utah State Legislative Session included Senate Bill (SB) 179 that established a new
process that municipalities must enact related to the classification and approval of new and
unlisted land uses. Draper City needs to amend the DCMC in order to conform with the new
State regulations.




City Initiated New and Unlisted Land Uses                            App. No.: 2025-0115-TA
Zoning Text Amendments Request                    1
ANALYSIS

Text Amendments.

This report will review the modifications being proposed. The legislative copy of the changes
can be found in Exhibit B of this report. Additions to the text are indicated in blue, deletions
in red, and unchanged text in black. (Please note that the modifications, below, are discussed
in reverse document order for clarity purposes.)

DCMC Section 9-8-050: Clarification of Zoning: Text has been added to the existing section
for ambiguous use classifications in order to outline the new process the City will follow for
new and unlisted uses. The new process will require an applicant to submit an application
for a classification request. The Zoning Administrator will review the request to determine if
the proposed use aligns with an existing use in the DCMC based on certain criteria. If the
new use is determined to be substantially similar to an existing use, the applicant may
proceed under the regulations in the DCMC applicable to that use. If the Zoning
Administrator determines that the use is a new or unlisted use, the application will go to the
City Council for review. The City Council will then approve or deny the new or unlisted use. If
approved, the City Council will designate the appropriate zones for the use. Upon
determination of the City Council, staff will initiate a zoning text amendment to either
incorporate the new use into the DCMC (if approved) or add it to the list of prohibited uses
(if denied). The proposed text also provides an appeal process for the decisions made by the
Zoning Administrator and City Council.

DCMC Section 9-3-060: Prohibited and Prescribed Uses: Text has been added to the existing
section for prohibited uses to reference the new process for new and unlisted uses in Section
9-8-050(B). A new table has been added to specifically identify uses that are prohibited in all
zones. These uses were previously included in the DCMC until they were removed in 2020 as
part of a code cleanup. Additional uses will be added to the table when new or unlisted uses
are denied (prohibited) by the City Council.

DCMC Section 9-3-040: Definitions: Text has been added to create definitions for two of the
prohibited uses, which were previously not defined.

Criteria For Approval.

A Zoning Text Amendment is a matter committed to the legislative discretion of the City
Council and is not controlled by any one standard. However, in making a recommendation
to the City Council, the Planning Commission should consider the following factors in DCMC
Section 9-5-060(E)(2):

    2. Text Amendments:
       a. Whether the proposed amendment is consistent with goals, objectives and
          policies of the city's general plan;




City Initiated New and Unlisted Land Uses                            App. No.: 2025-0115-TA
Zoning Text Amendments Request                 2
         b. Whether a proposed amendment furthers the specific purpose statements of the
            zoning ordinance;
         c. Whether the proposed amendment is appropriate given the context of the
            request and there is sufficient justification for a modification to the zoning
            ordinance;
         d. The proposed amendment will not create a conflict with any other section or part
            of this title or the general plan;
         e. Whether the potential effects of the proposed amendment have been evaluated
            and determined not to be detrimental to public health, safety, or welfare and
            represents an overall community benefit; and
         f. The extent to which a proposed text amendment implements best current,
            professional practices of urban planning, design, and engineering practices


REVIEWS

Planning Division Review. The Draper City Planning Division has completed their review of
the Zoning Text Amendment submission. Comments from this division, if any, can be found
in Exhibit A.

Engineering and Public Works Divisions Review. The Draper City Engineering and Public
Works Divisions have completed their reviews of the Zoning Text Amendment submission.
Comments from these divisions, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Building Division Review. The Draper City Building Division has completed their review of
the Zoning Text Amendment submission. Comments from this division, if any, can be found
in Exhibit A.

Fire Division Review. The Draper City Fire Marshal has completed his review of the Zoning
Text Amendment submission. Comments from this division, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Legal Division Review. The Draper City Attorney has completed his review of the Zoning Text
Amendment submission. Comments from this division, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Noticing. Notice has been properly issued in the manner outlined in the City and State Codes.


STAFF RECOMMENDATION

Staff recommends that the Planning Commission review the request, receive public
comment, and make a recommendation to the City Council based on the findings and the
criteria for approval, or denial, as listed within the staff report.




City Initiated New and Unlisted Land Uses                          App. No.: 2025-0115-TA
Zoning Text Amendments Request                3
MODEL MOTIONS

Sample Motion for Positive Recommendation – I move that we forward a positive
recommendation to the City Council for the City Initiated New and Unlisted Land Uses Zoning
Text Amendment, as requested by Draper City, Application No. 2025-0115-TA, based on the
following findings and the criteria for approval listed in the Staff Report dated May 29, 2025.

Findings for Approval:

    1. The proposed amendment is consistent with goals, objectives and policies of the
       City's General Plan;
    2. The proposed amendment is appropriate given the context of the request and there
       is sufficient justification for a modification to the development codes;
    3. The proposed amendment will not create a conflict with any other section or part of
       the development codes or the General Plan;
    4. The potential effects of the proposed amendment have been evaluated and are
       determined not to be detrimental to public health, safety, or welfare and represents
       an overall community benefit; and
    5. The proposed text amendment implements best current, professional practices of
       urban planning, design, and engineering practices.



Sample Motion for Modified Positive Recommendation – I move that we forward a positive
recommendation to the City Council for the City Initiated New and Unlisted Land Uses Zoning
Text Amendment, as requested by Draper City, Application No. 2025-0115-TA, based on the
findings and criteria for approval listed in the Staff Report dated May 29, 2025, and as
modified by the following additional recommended modifications or findings:

    1. (List any additional modifications or findings…)



Sample Motion for Negative Recommendation – I move that we forward a negative
recommendation to the City Council for the City Initiated New and Unlisted Land Uses Zoning
Text Amendment, as requested by Draper City, Application No. 2025-0115-TA, based on the
following findings and the criteria for denial listed in the Staff Report dated May 29, 2025.

Findings for Denial:

    1. The proposed amendment is not consistent with goals, objectives and policies of the
       City's General Plan;
    2. The proposed amendment is not appropriate given the context of the request and
       there is not sufficient justification for a modification to the development codes;




City Initiated New and Unlisted Land Uses                            App. No.: 2025-0115-TA
Zoning Text Amendments Request                 4
    3. The proposed amendment could create a conflict with another section or part of the
       development codes or the General Plan;
    4. The potential effects of the proposed amendment have been determined to be
       detrimental to public health, safety, or welfare or do not represent an overall
       community benefit; and
    5. The proposed text amendment is not consistent with best current, professional
       practices of urban planning, design, and engineering practices.




City Initiated New and Unlisted Land Uses                       App. No.: 2025-0115-TA
Zoning Text Amendments Request              5
                                     EXHIBIT A
                                DEPARTMENT REVIEWS

REVIEWS ARE NOT MEANT TO BE AN ALL INCLUSIVE LIST OF POSSIBLE COMMENTS OR
CONDITIONS.



Planning Division Review.

   1. No additional comments received.

Engineering and Public Works Divisions Review.

   1. No additional comments received.

Building Division Review.

   1. No additional comments received.

Fire Division Review.

   1. No additional comments received.

Legal Division Review.

   1. No additional comments received.
                                        EXHIBIT B
                                    LEGISLATIVE DRAFT


9-3-040: DEFINITIONS:

As used in this title, the words and phrases defined in this section shall have the following
meanings unless the context clearly indicates otherwise a contrary meaning:

…

CLUB OR SERVICE ORGANIZATION: An nonprofit or private establishment or organization
providing meeting, recreational, or social facilities for a private or nonprofit association,
except excluding a private club, as defined herein. Typical uses include lodges, meeting
halls, recreation centers, and facilities areas operated by social clubs, and fraternal or and
service organizations.

COLD STORAGE PLANTS: A facility for freezing or refrigerated storage of goods.

COLONY: A beehive and its equipment and appurtenances, including one queen, bees,
comb, honey, pollen, and brood.

…

HARDSCAPE: Patios, decks, walls, paths and similar man-made features that are part of an
integrated into a landscape design, excluding. This definition does not include driveways,
sidewalks, parking areas, or other paved walkways required for pedestrian access.

HAZARDOUS MATERIALS STORAGE/TREATMENT: A facility for the collection, storage,
processing, treatment, recycling, recovery, or disposal of hazardous waste as defined by
applicable state or federal law.

HEIGHT, BUILDING OR STRUCTURE: See definition of building or structure height.

…

9-3-060: PROHIBITED AND PRESCRIBED USES:

A. Prohibited Uses: The uses defined in section 9-3-040 of this chapter and listed as
permitted or allowed by conditional use permit in this title for the various zones of the City
shall constitute the entirety of uses allowable in those zones. Uses not listed or determined
to be and which cannot be considered substantially similar or accessory to a another
permitted or conditional use are prohibited unless approved as a new or unlisted business
use under section 9-8-050(B) by the Zoning Administrator shall be prohibited. The uses
listed in Table 9-3-1 shall be prohibited in all zones unless approved as a new or unlisted
business use under section 9-8-050(B).
B. Prescribed Uses: Uses prescribed under Utah Code Annotated section 10-9a-305, or its
successor, are allowed shall be considered an allowable use in any zone specified
prescribed by that section, even if not listed as a permitted or conditional use in this title
for a zone.

Table 9-3-1

PROHIBITED USES IN ALL ZONES


 Automobile wrecking yard


 Cold storage plants


 Hazardous materials storage/treatment


 Junk or salvage yard


 Pet sales


 Secondhand or thrift store, large, with
 outdoor storage or drop-off of items
 during hours the business is closed


…

9-8-050: CLARIFICATION OF ZONING:

A. Ambiguous Zone Classification: Any property which, for any reason, is not clearly zoned
on the city's official zone maps or is determined not to be subject to the requirements of a
zone classification under as provided by this title is hereby declared to be classified in the
agricultural zone, A5, and shall be subject to the requirements of the A5 zone
requirements.

B. Ambiguous Use Classification: If ambiguity arises concerning the appropriate
classification of a particular use within the meaning and intent of this title, or with respect
to matters of height, yard requirements, area requirements, or other property
development standards, the following process applies:

       1. Application: An applicant may submit a classification request to the Zoning
       Administrator to determine if a proposed business use aligns with an existing
       permitted or conditional use in this title. The application shall include information
       specified by the Zoning Administrator, such as use description, operational details,
       and site plans.
      2. Zoning Administrator Review: The zZoning aAdministrator shall determine the
      proper use or development standard, subject to if the proposed use is substantially
      similar to an existing permitted or conditional use based on the following criteria:

             a.   Type of goods and services provided;

             b.   Number of customers and employees;

             c.   Amount and type of on-site storage; and

             d.   Noise, odor, or vibration generated.

      3. Determination of Existing Use: If the Zoning Administrator determines the
      proposed use is substantially similar to an existing use, the applicant may proceed
      under the regulations applicable to that use.

      4. New or Unlisted Business Use: If the Zoning Administrator determines the
      proposed use is a new or unlisted business use not substantially similar to an
      existing use, the applicant may submit the application to the City Council for review.
      The City Council shall review the application at a public meeting within 60 days of
      submission, provided the applicant responds to requests for additional information
      within 10 business days and attends required meetings. The City Council shall
      approve or deny the new or unlisted business use based on consistency with the
      Draper City General Plan, public health and safety, and zoning compatibility. If
      approved, the City Council shall designate one or more appropriate zones for the
      use and direct staff to amend this title to incorporate the use as a permitted or
      conditional use in those zones. For site-specific or temporary uses, the City Council
      may designate zones via resolution, provided staff proposes a code amendment
      within 180 days for uses intended for broader application. If denied, the City
      Council shall provide written reasons for the denial, and staff shall amend this title
      to add the use to the prohibited uses list in Section 9-3-060(A).

      5. Appeals: The Zoning Administrator’s determination under Subsection (B)(2) or (3)
      may be appealed to the authority designated under section 9-5-180 of this title,
      within the timeframe specified therein. The City Council’s decision under Subsection
      (B)(4) may be appealed as provided in Section 9-5-060(F).

C. Ambiguous Development Standards Classification: If ambiguity arises concerning
height, yard, area, or other property development standards, the Zoning Administrator
shall determine the appropriate development standard, subject to appeal as provided in
section 9-5-180 of this title.

…
