                                Development Review Committee
                                    1020 East Pioneer Road
                                       Draper, UT 84020
                                        April 10, 2025

To:              Draper City Planning Commission
                 Business Date: April 24, 2025

From:            Development Review Committee

Prepared By: Todd Taylor, Planner III
             Planning Division
             Community Development Department
             801-576-6510, todd.taylor@draperutah.gov

Re:     Academy Plaza – Zoning Text Amendment Request
        Application No.: 2024-0025-TA
        Applicant:        Joe Johnsen of J Development, representing Dumar, LLC
        Project Location: 383 W 13490 S
        Current Zoning: Draper Pointe Mixed Use Commercial Special District (CSD-
                          DPMU) Zone
        Acreage:          7.7 Acres (Approximately 335,412 ft2)
        Request:          Request for approval of a Zoning Text Amendment to the CSD-
                          DPMU zone to add two new districts, an office/warehouse/limited
                          manufacturing district and a vertical mixed use district.



BACKGROUND AND SUMMARY

This application is a request for approval of a Zoning Text Amendment to the CSD-DPMU
zone to add two new districts, an office/warehouse/limited manufacturing district and a
vertical mixed use district, and development standards related to the new districts. The CSD-
DPMU zone includes the Academy Plaza site, which is approximately 7.7 acres in size, and is
located at approximately 383 W 13490 S (Exhibits B & C). The Academy Plaza site would be
designated to allow the uses identified in the new districts.

The CSD-DPMU zone, as it exists today, was adopted through an iterative process. First, the
Draper Point Office Park CSD was adopted by the City on April 15, 2014 for 29.63 acres, and
allowed office uses, as well as retail and other commercial uses. An amendment adopted on
April 21, 2015, renamed the Draper Point Office Park CSD to the current name, added an



Academy Plaza                                                       App. No.: 2024-0025-TA
Zoning Text Amendment Request                 1
additional 21.5 acres of property, and allowed residential, commercial and hotel uses. An
amendment adopted on May 26, 2015 added an additional 25.51 acres of property, including
the subject property. An amendment adopted on March 15, 2016 modified the retail and
residential development standards. An amendment adopted on August 29, 2017 amended
the signage standards. Finally, an amendment adopted on October 17, 2017 added private
street standards.



ANALYSIS

The Commercial Special District land use designation is characterized as follows:




Academy Plaza                                                      App. No.: 2024-0025-TA
Zoning Text Amendment Request                2
According to Draper City Municipal Code (DCMC) Section 9-8-020, the purpose of the CSD
zone is to, “permit a compatible, master planned mix of day and evening uses consisting of
office, light manufacturing, retail, residential, recreation and open space components.
Although development size and use mix will vary from location to location, each
development is intended to consist of well designed, architecturally integrated structures
which are appropriately landscaped and buffered from surrounding land uses.”

Text Amendment.

Below is a summary of the proposed changes to the CSD-DPMU zone. The full text of the
changes can be found in Exhibit D of this report. Additions to the text are indicated in blue,
deletions in red, and unchanged text in black.

DCMC Section 9-18H-010: Purpose: The proposed modifications to this section introduce
personal and business services, and warehousing and limited manufacturing uses to the
purpose of the CSD.

DCMC Section 9-18H-020: Permitted Uses: The proposed modifications to this section would
add the following uses to the list of permitted uses: Business equipment rental and supplies;
Cashing services; Grooming service; Manufacturing, limited; Medical or dental laboratory;
Office, warehouse; Printing, general; Repair service; Research service; Secondhand or thrift
store, small; Tattoo establishment; Trade/vocational school; Veterinary service; Wholesale
and warehousing, limited.

DCMC Section 9-18H-030: Development Standards: The proposed modifications to this
section add development standards related to the new office/warehouse/limited
manufacturing district and the vertical mixed use district. Unique standards for the
office/warehouse/limited manufacturing district, not found in the other CSD-DPMU districts,
include the requirements for uses to be entirely within an enclosed building, roll-up doors to
include transparent glass panel inserts, and walls to screen the truck docks. Unique
standards for the vertical mixed use district, not found in the other CSD-DPMU districts,
include the requirements for having office on the second floor over retail, service
commercial, restaurant space, personal services or business services on the first floor.
Additionally, the buildings would face 13490 South, have wider walkways, and provide
shaded seating and gathering areas.

DCMC Section 9-18H-040: Landscape Standards: The proposed modifications to this section
indicate that the new office/warehouse/limited manufacturing district and the vertical mixed
use district would comply with DCMC Chapter 9-23, Landscaping and Screening. However, a
twenty-five foot (25’) wide buffer would be required between the office/warehouse/limited
manufacturing district and residential areas with alternating shrub and tree plantings every
ten feet (10’) and twenty feet (20’), respectively.




Academy Plaza                                                       App. No.: 2024-0025-TA
Zoning Text Amendment Request                 3
DCMC Section 9-18H-050: Parking Standards: The proposed modifications to this section
indicate that the new office/warehouse/limited manufacturing district and the vertical mixed
use district would comply with the parking requirements Chapter 9-25, Parking.

DCMC Section 9-18H-060: Lighting Standards: The proposed modifications to this section
indicate that the new office/warehouse/limited manufacturing district and the vertical mixed
use district would comply with the same parking lot lighting standards set forth for
commercial in the CSD-DPMU, with a minimum of 0.5 foot-candles, a maximum of 4.0 foot-
candles, and utilize full cutoff type fixtures.

DCMC Section 9-18H-100: Exhibits: The proposed modifications to this section replaces
Exhibit A with a new project area map, adds a new site plan to Exhibit B, replaces Exhibit C
with a new land use master plan, adds a new Exhibit H with renderings of the sample
office/warehouse/limited manufacturing district and the vertical mixed use district buildings,
and re-letters the subsequent exhibits.

Staff Analysis.

The existing purpose statement of the CSD-DPMU discusses a beneficial mix of uses in the
zone and states that the “Residential District will provide needed support for the retail and
office in the surrounding areas and the hotel will in turn support the office/business uses”.
With a few of the proposed uses, staff has concerns that they depart significantly from the
intent and purpose of the existing CSD, are not appropriate for the area, and would
negatively impact other existing uses in the CSD. The proposed uses that staff is most
concerned with are: Limited Manufacturing, General Printing, and Limited Wholesale and
Warehousing.

The uses of Limited Manufacturing and Limited Wholesale and Warehousing require a large
amount of space with a low number of employees, as evidenced by their low parking
requirements in DCMC Table 9-25-1. General Printing likewise is more industrial in nature
and requires large amounts of space with similarly lower numbers of employees. Conversely,
the proposed use of Office, warehouse requires that at least twenty-five percent (25%) of
each building or unit is dedicated to office or showroom space, which would increase the
number of employees per square foot, providing additional employment opportunities for
those living in the vicinity and supporting the surrounding businesses.

In addition to the lower employment per square foot, which would reduce the number of
employees to support the surrounding businesses, the proposed uses would likely also
introduce significant truck traffic to the site, immediately adjacent to the existing Parc West
apartments and to streets within the boundaries of the nearby Transit Station District zone
and the existing Draper FrontRunner Station Area Plan (also known as Vista Station).




Academy Plaza                                                        App. No.: 2024-0025-TA
Zoning Text Amendment Request                  4
An additional staff concern is that the City is currently in the process of drafting an update
to the Draper FrontRunner Station Area Plan which will include some, if not all of the CSD-
DPMU. The State has required that Station Area Plans must increase the availability and
affordability of housing, including moderate income housing; promote sustainable
environmental conditions; enhance access to opportunities; and increase transportation
choices and connections. The State has also required that after Station Area Plans are
adopted that that zoning of the areas within the Station Area Plan be brough in-line with the
goals and objectives of that plan.

While staff has worked with the applicant to include proposed mitigations in the site
development standards such as landscaped buffers adjacent to the residential uses,
screening of the truck bays, and ensuring that the uses remain enclosed within the buildings,
staff does not feel that the potential mitigations are able to go far enough to make the
identified proposed uses part of a beneficial mix to the overall CSD. While a final decision
regarding the appropriateness of the proposed uses is ultimately a policy decision of the City
Council, staff is recommending that the Planning Commission recommend to the City Council
that these specific uses not be included as allowed uses in the CSD-DPMU zone. This is
reflected in the suggested motion for a modified positive recommendation included in this
staff report.

Criteria For Approval.

A Text Amendment is a matter committed to the legislative discretion of the City Council and
is not controlled by any one standard. However, in making a recommendation to the City
Council, the Planning Commission should consider the following factors in Section 9-5-
060(E)(2) of the DCMC:

    2. Text Amendments:
       a. Whether the proposed amendment is consistent with goals, objectives and
          policies of the city's general plan;
       b. Whether a proposed amendment furthers the specific purpose statements of the
          zoning ordinance;
       c. Whether the proposed amendment is appropriate given the context of the
          request and there is sufficient justification for a modification to the zoning
          ordinance;
       d. The proposed amendment will not create a conflict with any other section or part
          of this title or the general plan;
       e. Whether the potential effects of the proposed amendment have been evaluated
          and determined not to be detrimental to public health, safety, or welfare and
          represents an overall community benefit; and
       f. The extent to which a proposed text amendment implements best current,
          professional practices of urban planning, design, and engineering practices




Academy Plaza                                                       App. No.: 2024-0025-TA
Zoning Text Amendment Request                 5
REVIEWS

Planning Division Review. The Draper City Planning Division has completed their review of
the Zoning Text Amendment submission. Comments from this division, if any, can be found
in Exhibit A.

Engineering Department Review. The Draper City Engineering Department has completed
their review of the Zoning Text Amendment submission. Comments from these divisions, if
any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Building Division Review. The Draper City Building Division has completed their review of the
Zoning Text Amendment submission. Comments from this division, if any, can be found in
Exhibit A.

Fire Division Review. The Draper City Fire Marshal has completed his review of the Zoning
Text Amendment submission. Comments from this division, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Legal Division Review. The Draper City Attorney has completed his review of the Zoning Text
Amendment submission. Comments from this division, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Noticing. Notice has been properly issued in the manner outlined in the City and State Codes.


STAFF RECOMMENDATION

Based on the analysis above, staff recommends that the Planning Commission review the
request, receive public comment, and make a recommendation to the City Council based on
the findings listed below and the criteria for approval, as listed within the staff report.



MODEL MOTIONS AND FINDINGS

Sample Motion for Positive Recommendation – I move that we forward a positive
recommendation to the City Council for the Zoning Text Amendment, as requested by Joe
Johnsen of J Development, representing Dumar, LLC, Application No. 2024-0025-TA, based
on the findings for approval listed in the Staff Report dated April 10, 2024.

Findings for Approval:

    1. The proposed amendment is consistent with goals, objectives and policies of the
       City's General Plan;
    2. The proposed amendment furthers the specific purpose statements of the zoning
       ordinance;



Academy Plaza                                                       App. No.: 2024-0025-TA
Zoning Text Amendment Request                 6
    3. The proposed amendment is appropriate given the context of the request and there
       is sufficient justification for a modification to the zoning ordinance;
    4. The proposed amendment will not create a conflict with any other section or part of
       the zoning ordinance or the General Plan;
    5. The potential effects of the proposed amendment have been evaluated and are
       determined not to be detrimental to public health, safety, or welfare and represents
       an overall community benefit; and
    6. The proposed text amendment implements best current, professional practices of
       urban planning, design, and engineering practices.

Sample Motion for Modified Positive Recommendation – I move that we forward a positive
recommendation to the City Council for the Zoning Text Amendment, as requested by Joe
Johnsen of J Development, representing Dumar, LLC, Application No. 2024-0025-TA, based
on the findings for approval listed in the Staff Report dated April 10, 2024, with the following
modifications to the proposed text and the following additional finding(s):

Modifications to the proposed text:

    1. That the following proposed uses be removed from the permitted uses: Limited
       Manufacturing, General Printing, and Limited Wholesale and Warehousing uses.
    2. That the proposed text and exhibits be modified to not include “limited
       manufacturing” in the name of the new district.

Additional Finding(s):

    1. The Limited Manufacturing, General Printing, and Limited Wholesale and
       Warehousing uses are not appropriate uses for the zoning district and would not be
       consistent with the goals, objectives, and policies of the City General Plan and
       included Station Area plans.
    2. (List any additional findings…)

Sample Motion for Negative Recommendation – I move that we forward a negative
recommendation to the City Council for the Zoning Text Amendment, as requested by Joe
Johnsen of J Development, representing Dumar, LLC, Application No. 2024-0025-TA, based
on the findings for denial listed in the Staff Report dated April 10, 2024.

Findings for Denial:

    1. The proposed amendment is not consistent with goals, objectives and policies of the
       City's General Plan;
    2. The proposed amendment does not further the specific purpose statement of the
       Draper Pointe Mixed Use Commercial Special District;




Academy Plaza                                                         App. No.: 2024-0025-TA
Zoning Text Amendment Request                  7
    3. The proposed amendment is not appropriate given the context of the request and
       there is not sufficient justification for a modification to the zoning ordinance;
    4. The proposed amendment could create a conflict with another section or part of the
       zoning ordinance or the General Plan;
    5. The potential effects of the proposed amendment have been determined to be
       detrimental to public health, safety, or welfare or do not represent an overall
       community benefit; and
    6. The proposed text amendment is not consistent with best current, professional
       practices of urban planning, design, and engineering practices.




Academy Plaza                                                    App. No.: 2024-0025-TA
Zoning Text Amendment Request               8
                                      EXHIBIT A
                                 DEPARTMENT REVIEWS

REVIEWS ARE NOT MEANT TO BE AN ALL INCLUSIVE LIST OF POSSIBLE COMMENTS OR
CONDITIONS.

Planning Division Review.

   1. The majority of the proposed uses are not appropriate for the area.

Engineering Department Review.

   1. The adequacy of facilities and services intended to serve the subject property,
      including but not limited to roadways, parks and recreation facilities, police and fire
      protection, schools, storm water drainage systems, water supplies, and waste water
      and refuse collection;

      Other than noted below, we are not aware of any inadequacies of the facilities
      intended to serve this property.

          a. The change in uses within the zone represents a potential increase in traffic
             based on the permitted or conditional uses within the zone. In particular,
             there may be a significant increase in truck traffic from the warehouse
             component of the use modification. The existing traffic in the area is outside
             the normal truck traffic areas, typically confined to Lone Peak Parkway in this
             general area. The proposed zone use modification has a variety of uses that
             generate different traffic volumes so it is impossible to identify a future
             impact other than to note the potential of an increase in traffic from its
             current zone to the proposed zone. Any increase in the number of trips or
             the traffic intensity would be limited to 13490 South due to the location of
             the subject property. It is unlikely that any potential increase in traffic would
             disperse into residential areas or other areas of the city based on its location
             west of Interstate 15. However, the size of the parcels and the proposed uses
             may not necessarily trigger an automatic traffic impact study because it does
             not exceed the number of peak hour trips that typically would necessitate
             offsite mitigation measures. Any increase in traffic would be limited to 13490
             South, an arterial street planned for significant commercial and residential
             traffic. There are frontage improvements existing on the subject site.
          b. Connectivity with the subject parcel to a public right-of-way is on 13490
             South, an arterial street intended to accommodate significant commercial
             and residential traffic. Access locations are existing and any modification to
             those accesses will be required to meet Draper City standards as outlined in
             our Master Transportation Plan and will be evaluated at the time of a site
             plan or subdivision application. The subject parcel currently has two accesses
             to 13490 South as well cross access to adjacent parcel(s).
          c. There are existing storm drainage facilities at the site. It is expected that the
             site will need to be brought into compliance with current requirements with
             the proposed change of use. The existing site is connected to existing storm
             drainage pipeline in 1390 South. Any future site drainage will be required to
             be addressed with any subdivision or site plan application, and shall comply
             with the provisions of the development requirements within the Draper City
             Municipal Code.
          d. Sanitary sewer facilities will be provided by South Valley Sewer District. Any
             subdivision or site plan application will require a commitment to serve from
             the Sewer District that facilities are adequate to provide service for the
             proposed uses.
          e. Drinking water is provided by the city to the subject parcel. Any subdivision
             or site plan application will require a commitment to serve from the city that
             facilities are adequate to provide service for the proposed uses.

Building Division Review.

   1. No additional comment.

Fire Division Review.

   1. No additional comment.

Legal Division Review.

   1. No additional comment.
  EXHIBIT B
VICINITY MAP
 EXHIBIT C
AERIAL MAP
    EXHIBIT D
LEGISLATIVE DRAFT
CHAPTER 18
COMMERCIAL SPECIAL DISTRICTS (CSD)
…
ARTICLE H. DRAPER POINTE MIXED USE COMMERCIAL
SPECIAL DISTRICT
…
9-18H-010: PURPOSE:
The Draper Pointe Mixed Use Commercial Special District contains approximately 76.71
acres, as seen in section 9-18H-100, exhibit A of this article. It is bordered by 200 West on
the east, Galena Park Boulevard on the north and Bangerter Highway on the south. The
13490 South Street runs through the project. The size of the property allows for a master
planned, mixed use project, with land uses such as office, residential, and general
commercial, including retail shops, and a hotel, personal and business services, and
warehousing and limited manufacturing. The Draper City general plan's goals and
objectives are reflected in the overall design of the project, by incorporating a mix of land
uses, quality architecture, efficient site design and abundant landscaping. The Commercial
District of the master plan aims to broaden the commercial tax base of the City while
providing amenities to the City residents, such as an improved Galena Park Boulevard,
13490 South and Vista Station Boulevard, and pedestrian access to Utah Transit Authority
FrontRunner Station. The Residential District will provide needed support for the retail and
office in the surrounding areas and the hotel will in turn support the office/business uses.


9-18H-020: PERMITTED USES:
Bank or financial institution with drive-through.
Bar establishment.
Business equipment rental and supplies.
Business service.
Cashing services.
Church or place of worship.
Convenience store.
Cultural service.
Daycare, general.
Department store.
Dwelling, multiple-family.
Franchise Municipal use.
Gasoline service station.
Grooming service.
Government service.
Health and fitness facility.
Higher education facility, private.
Higher education facility, public.
Hotel.
Laundry or dry cleaning, limited.
Laundry services.
Manufacturing, limited.
Media services.
Medical cannabis pharmacy.
Medical or dental laboratory.
Medical services.
Office, general.
Office, warehouse.
Personal care service.
Personal instruction service.
Post Office.
Preschool.
Printing and photocopying, limited.
Printing, general.
Recreation and entertainment, indoor.
Repair service.
Research service.
Restaurant, fast food.
Restaurant, general.
Retail, general.
Secondhand or thrift store, small.
Tattoo establishment.
Trade/vocational school.
Veterinary service.
Wholesale and warehousing, limited.
Wireless telecommunications facilities.
9-18H-030: DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS:
The development standards of the Draper Pointe Mixed Use Commercial Special District
will guide the design of the buildings, landscaping, parking, access and private streets, and
signage located within the district boundaries. The Master Plan provides for office, retail,
residential, general commercial, including retail shops, and hotel, personal and business
services, and warehousing and limited manufacturing development in designated areas in
accordance with the development standards set forth in this article.
A. Development District: Based on land use, each building shall comply with the following
   development standards for each corresponding district:
…
    5. Office/Warehouse/Limited Manufacturing
       a. All uses shall be entirely within an enclosed building.
       b. Architectural design shall be the primary method for establishing a distinct
          identity and sense of place within the Office/Warehouse/Limited Manufacturing
          District. Buildings must be articulated with use-appropriate scale, form,
          materials, and colors.
       c. Front and side building facades must share a consistent character, utilizing
          complementary materials, colors, features, forms, and design elements
          appropriate to the building’s size and depth.
       d. Rear building facades, which face truck drive aisles for access to roll-up doors,
          must be finished with material complementary to the other sides as approved by
          Draper City staff. The roll-up doors shall include transparent glass panel inserts.
       e. Primary building materials shall consist of granite, metal, composite metal
          panels, brick, stone, Exterior Insulation and Finish Systems (EIFS), concrete,
          Glass Fiber Reinforced Concrete (GFRC), tile, or similar material approved by
          Draper City staff.
       f. Front, side and rear facades must incorporate more than one of the
          abovementioned materials.
       g. Corner towers, which are wider and taller projections, shall be used to
          accentuate building corners and add visual interest to the front and sides.
       h. Optional individualized design features may also be included to accentuate a
          user's identity, logo and color scheme.
       i.   Prominent entry features are required and must include at least one of the
            following:
            (1) An arch or canopy over entry doors;
            (2) Complementary colors or materials that accentuate the entry; and
        (3) Entry doors with vestibules and/or lobbies that extend beyond or are
            recessed within the building's exterior footprint.
   j.   Building must incorporate a minimum of twenty percent (20%) high-efficiency
        glazing.
   k. Preferred design elements for Office/Warehouse/Limited Manufacturing
      include:
        (1) EFIS details.
        (2) EFIS or metal cornice trim.
        (3) EFIS trim.
        (4) Aluminum storefront window system.
        (5) Architectural grade exterior wall-mounted light fixture at the main building
            entrance.
        (6) Concrete tile panel.
   l.   No building shall exceed thirty feet (30') in height, measured from the finished
        grade.
   m. Horizontal or vertical facade variations must occur at least every fifty feet (50’)
      using at least two of the following;
        (1) Surface plane variations, such as pop-outs, bays, and recesses;
        (2) Surface pattern variations, such as arches, banding, and paneling;
        (3) Distinctive treatments of windows, doors, and eaves, including molding or
            framing. or
        (4) Distinctive changes in materials and colors.
   n. Wall extensions must screen truck docks and meet the following conditions:
        (1) Walls shall be at least twelve feet (12’) in height.
        (2) Wall finishes shall match the articulation, materials and colors of the building
            side wall.
        (3) Landscaping, including shrubs and trees, shall be placed in front of the wall
            for screening.
   o. All mechanical equipment shall be screened from view using complementary
      material, colored enclosure, or a parapet wall.
   p. Dumpsters shall be enclosed within a decorative masonry, split face CMU or
      honed CMU enclosure.
   q. Secondary pedestrian entrances shall feature overhangs, lighting and enhanced
      landscaping.
6. Vertical Mixed Use (Retail/Restaurant Under Office)
   a. Outside storage is prohibited.
b. All lots, structures, and uses shall be in accordance with the following standards.
   (1) No minimum or maximum lot width.
   (2) Minimum front yard setback is ten feet (10').
   (3) No building shall exceed two (2) stories, excluding the mechanical
       penthouse.
   (4) Minimum distance between buildings is twenty (20) feet.
c. Mixed-Use Design Required: Buildings must include retail, service commercial,
   restaurant space, personal services and business services or similar uses listed
   in Section 9-18H-020: Permitted Uses on the first floor and office space or
   similar uses listed in Section 9-18H-020: Permitted Uses on the second floor.
d. Site Design
   (1) Position buildings to face 13490 South.
   (2) Ensure cross-access for vehicles and pedestrians between adjacent
       properties.
   (3) Enclose dumpsters within decorative masonry, split face CMU, or honed CMU
       structures.
e. Main entrances must feature at least three of the following:
   (1) Entry doors and lobby that extend beyond or are recessed behind the
       building's exterior footprint.
   (2) Unique architectural features;
   (3) Individualized design features that accentuate a user's identity, logo and
       color scheme.
   (4) Distinct but complementary building materials or colors;
   (5) Increased use of windows or glass;
   (6) Pedestrian amenities such as patios, porches, special paving treatments,
       seating areas, or awnings; or
   (7) Increased landscaping.
f. Facade Articulation. All buildings must include horizontal and vertical façade
   articulation. Flat facades, single wall heights, and monotone color schemes are
   not permitted.
g. Façade Variations. Implement horizontal or vertical facade variations at least
   every thirty feet (30’) using a minimum of two of the following:
   (1) Surface plane variations, such as pop-outs, bays, or recesses;
   (2) Surface pattern variations, such as arches, banding, or paneling;
   (3) Distinctive treatment of windows, doors, and eaves with molding or framing
       or
            (4) Distinctive changes in building materials and colors.
       h. Height and Roofline. Varied roofline and parapet heights are required to avoid
          continuous, single-height roofline expanses. Buildings must:
            (1) Limit rooflines and parapets to no longer than fifty feet (50’) without height
                variations.
            (2) Use similar materials and colors on visible backs of false fronts, parapets, or
                cornices for consistency.
            (3) Screen roof-mounted mechanical equipment and similar systems. Any
                portion of this equipment that is not fully shielded must be painted the color
                of the roofing or parapet materials.
       i.   Screen roof-mounted mechanical equipment and similar systems. Any
            unshielded portions must match the color of the roofing or parapet materials.
       j.   Each elevation must include a minimum of three colors to enhance visual
            interest.
       k. Ensure that at least twenty percent (20%) of the building features high-
          efficiency glazing to improve energy efficiency and aesthetics.
       l.   Pedestrian-Friendly Design. Enhance pedestrian activity and social interaction
            by:
            (1) Designing principal walkways to be at least six feet (6’) wide for side-by-side
                walking,
            (2) Providing shaded seating and gathering areas.
            (3) Separating pedestrian paths from vehicles by at least five feet (5’) using low
                evergreen hedges, walls, or other approved pedestrian features.
       m. Buildings must have a clearly articulated pedestrian-scale base between four (4’)
          and six feet (6’) in height to enhance the pedestrian experience.
       …
9-18H-040: LANDSCAPE STANDARDS:
Landscape design is a major component of the Draper Pointe Mixed Use Commercial
Special District. The overall project shall be landscaped with sensitivity to its environment.
A consistent palette of drought tolerant tree types, plant materials, and ground covers shall
be incorporated throughout in relation to the architecture to create a strong and consistent
sense of place and identity. The tree and plant palette shall be submitted in conjunction
with specific site plan approval application for each phase. The landscape design shall
comply with the following standards:
…
L. Plan Submitted: All multi-family, office/warehouse/limited manufacturing and vertical
   mixed use projects shall submit a landscaping plan in accordance with chapter 23,
   "Landscaping And Screening", of this title.
    1. Landscaping shall be used as a land use buffer where appropriate.
    2. To minimize the noise impacts of truck traffic on the nearby residential units, a
       landscaped buffer of twenty-five feet (25’) in width shall be planted along the
       shared boundary of the office/warehouse/limited manufacturing and residential
       areas based on the following criteria:
       a. Evergreen hedges such as Emerald Green Arborvitae and shrubs such as
          Wintergreen Boxwood or similar varieties approved by the Planning Division
          shall be planted at a four (4) foot minimum height and spaced at ten (10) feet on
          center along the length of the landscaped area.
       b. Evergreen trees such as Norway Spruce, kindred spirit, or similar varieties
          approved by the Planning Division shall be planted at a minimum height of six
          (6) feet and spaced twenty (20) feet on center along the length of the landscaped
          area.
    2. 3. Detention basins shall be adequately landscaped and maintained.
    3. 4. Drought tolerant landscaping is highly encouraged.


9-18H-050: PARKING STANDARDS:
Each parking area will be configured to reduce the appearance of large asphalt areas and be
designed in accordance with the following standards:
…
H. Office/Warehouse/Limited Manufacturing Parking Provisions.
    1. The provisions for "Deviations From Strict Compliance For Parking," as outlined in
       Section 9-25-090, are applicable.
    2. Parking requirements must adhere to the formulas specified in Table 9-2.5-1.
I. Vertical Mixed Use (Retail/Restaurant Under Office) Parking Provisions.
    1. The provisions for "Deviations From Strict Compliance For Parking," as outlined in
       Section 9-25-090 shall apply.
    2. The parking formulas found in Table 9-2.5-1 shall be used to determine the
       appropriate number of parking spaces required.
    3. Developers are encouraged to implement "Shared Use Parking" strategies as
       permitted by Draper City Code Section 9-25-050 (C). This approach helps prevent
       over-parking by allowing different users to share parking facilities at different
       times, optimizing space usage and reducing unnecessary pavement.


9-18H-060: LIGHTING STANDARDS:
A. Illumination: Parking lot lighting in commercial areas, including
   Office/Warehouse/Limited Manufacturing and Vertical Mixed Use (Retail/Restaurant
   Under Office), shall provide adequate illumination at a minimum 0.5 foot-candle and
   maximum of four (4) foot-candles.
B. Fixture Type: Parking lot lighting in commercial and office areas, including
   Office/Warehouse/Limited Manufacturing and Vertical Mixed Use (Retail/Restaurant
   Under Office), shall utilize cutoff type fixtures.
   …
9-18H-100: EXHIBITS:
EXHIBIT A - PROJECT AREA
200 West
EXHIBIT B - SITE PLANS
Office/Commercial/Residential South
Site Plans
Residential, Retail And Hotel
EXHIBIT B - SITE PLANS
Office/Commercial/Residential South
Office/Warehouse/Limited Manufacturing and Vertical Mixed Use (Retail/Restaurant
Under Office)
EXHIBIT C
Land Use Master Plan
…
EXHIBIT H
SAMPLE OFFICE/WAREHOUSE/LIMITED MANUFACTURING & VERTICAL MIXED USE
BUILDINGS




Office/Warehouse/Limited Manufacturing




Vertical Mixed Use
EXHIBIT H I
LANDSCAPING
…
EXHIBIT I J
SITE LIGHTING
…
EXHIBIT J K
SIGNAGE
…
        EXHIBIT E
APPLICANT QUESTIONNAIRE
Text Amendment Questions:


II.    HOW IS THE PROPOSED AMENDMENT CONSISTENT WITH THE
       GOALS, OBJECTIVES, AND POLICIES OF THE CITY’S GENERAL PLAN?


        The proposed amendment of allowing additional viable commercial uses to the
        existing Office/Retail zoning status will complement and support the commercial
        amenities that Academy Plaza project is promoting. Draper City aims to broaden
        the commercial tax base of the city while providing commercial amenities to the
        surrounding residents in the district.

        J Development recognizes the City’s goal in our request and understands this
        amendment closely aligns with the City’s vision.

        Also, this request ads value by incorporating the additional researched, data-
        driven, market researched uses, as suggested by J Development, provide
        commercial support and services to nearby patrons and residents.


III.   HOW IS THE PROPOSED AMENDMENT APPROPRIATE GIVEN THE
       CONTEXT OF THE REQUEST AND WHAT IS THE JUSTIFCATION FOR
       THE MODIFICATION?


         The proposed amendment provides support to the existing zoning which we
         know would otherwise not be as successful without this adjustment. Based on
         our professional market research findings, several data points indicate that the
         retail and commercial component, without these expanded commercials uses,
         would not provide sufficient customer demand and consumer interest within
         the current market base.

         This text amendment will maintain not only Draper City’s vision for commercial
         tax base and mix of land uses, but also provides the developer the confidence
         to build a viable community of commercial/retail tenants based on current
         market conditions and demand, versus historical, outdated masterplans.




                                                                                            Page 10
IV.   HOW MIGHT THE AMENDMENT IMPACT THE COMMUNITY?


        Our proposed text amendment will impact the community in positive ways and
        align with the City’s vision by providing the following:
           1. The latest designs and quality architecture in commercial retail/office designs;

           2. Add abundant landscaping and broader commercial vendors creating a greater sense of
               community for the Draper Pointe Mixed Use Commercial Special District;

           3. Enhance greater pedestrian access to the overall area thru various retail, commercial, and offices
               uses;
           4. Most importantly, provide the needed variety of commercial services, including food and eating
               establishments, and flexible small business components to the masterplan that has not yet been
               fulfilled in the area. What a great opportunity!




V.    TEXT AMENDMENT EXHIBITS:


       Please find attached proposed Land Use Masterplan Plan, Conceptual Site
       Layout, and Subzone Site Plan update for the proposed use and layout.

       Note, this references the subject property specifics as it relates to its location
       within existing “Section E” of the Draper Pointe Mixed Use Commercial Master
       Plan. (Exhibits to be updated within 9-18H-100 of the Draper City Code)




VI.   CONCLUSION


        The J Development team looks forward to being a community partner in
        supporting Draper City and residents in their vision for the Draper Pointe Mixed
        Use Special District. Thank you for considering our application.
        We can be contacted at:

        J Development

        801-382-8866

        info@jdevutah.com

        jdevutah.com


                                                                                                        Page 11
