                              Development Review Committee
                                   1020 East Pioneer Road
                                     Draper, Utah 84020


                                      STAFF REPORT
                                      February 4, 2025

To:                 Draper City Planning Commission
                    Business Date: February 13, 2025

From:               Development Review Committee

Prepared By:        Maryann Pickering, AICP, Planner III
                    Planning Division
                    Community Development Department
                    (801) 576-6391 or maryann.pickering@draperutah.gov

Re:     Urbana – Land Use Map Amendment, Zoning Map Amendment and
        Development Agreement Amendment Requests
        Application Nos.: 2024-0420-MA, 2024-0422-MA and 2024-0423-DA
        Applicant:        Jacob Ballstaedt of Garbett Homes
        Project Location: 285 W. River Chapel Road
        Current Zoning: A2 (Agricultural)
        Acreage:          Approximately 0.15 acres (approximately 6,502 square feet)
        Request:          Request for approval of a: 1) Development Agreement to approve
                          a specific concept plan, 2) a Land Use Map Amendment from the
                          Community Commercial to High Density Residential land use
                          designation, and 3) a Zoning Map Amendment from A2
                          (Agricultural) to RM2 (Multiple Family) zoning designation.



SUMMARY AND BACKGROUND
This application is a request for approval of a Land Use Map Amendment, Zoning Map
Amendment and Development Agreement Amendment for approximately 0.15 acres
located on the west side of Lone Peak Parkway, at approximately 285 W. River Chapel Road
(Exhibits C and D). The property is currently zoned A2. The applicant is requesting that the
applications be for the purpose of incorporating approximately 0.15 acres into an existing
approved single family development project.




Urbana                                                             Apps. # 2024-0420-MA
Land Use and Zoning Map Amendments                                         2024-0422-MA
and Development Agreement                     1                            2024-0423-DA
The property has historically been used for agricultural, but has been vacant since the mid-
2000’s. In 2021, an application was submitted to rezone the property to RM2 for the
development of residential townhomes. That application was denied by the City Council. A
separate application was submitted in early 2023 for a different residential townhome
project, but that application was withdrawn before there was any action on the request.

In June 2024, the City Council approved a similar request from this applicant to construct a
30 lot single family subdivision in the RM2 zone with a Development Agreement. Since that
approval, the applicant has come to an agreement with the property owner of the property
owner to the west and purchased a vacant strip of land that is 16 feet wide. The property
owner to the west did not intend to develop this strip of land and a boundary line
agreement was completed between the two properties to purchase the land. This request
is to incorporate that 16 foot strip of land into the approved subdivision.

ANALYSIS
General Plan and Zoning.

 Table 1                 General Plan and Zoning Designations                   Exhibit
 Existing Land Use       Community Commercial                                   Exhibit E
 Current Zoning          A2                                                     Exhibit F
 Proposed Land
                         Residential High Density
 Use
 Adjacent Zoning
    East                 CBP (Commercial Business Park)
    West                 A2
    North                CR (Regional Commercial)
    South                R3 (Single Family)

The Community Commercial land use designation is characterized as follows:




Urbana                                                             Apps. # 2024-0420-MA
Land Use and Zoning Map Amendments                                         2024-0422-MA
and Development Agreement                      2                           2024-0423-DA
According to Draper City Municipal Code (DCMC) Section 9-8-020 the purpose of the A2
zone is to “allow a lifestyle that includes generally noncommercial agricultural uses on large
lots. Typical uses include estate lots, noncommercial stables, and other equestrian facilities.”

Land Use Map Amendment. The applicant has requested a land use amendment to the
Residential High Density land use designation (Exhibit G). The proposed designation is
compatible with the requested zoning designation of RM2. The Residential High Density
land use designation is described as follows:




Urbana                                                                   Apps. # 2024-0420-MA
Land Use and Zoning Map Amendments                                               2024-0422-MA
and Development Agreement                        3                               2024-0423-DA
Zoning Map Amendment. The applicant has requested the RM2 zoning designation for the
property (Exhibit H). According to Draper City Municipal Code (DCMC) Section 9-8-020, the
purpose of the RM2 zone is to “permit well designed apartments, townhomes, twin homes, and
condominiums at relatively high densities that are appropriately buffered from and compatible
with surrounding land uses.”

Development Agreement. The applicant has proposed a first amendment to the previously
approved and recorded Development Agreement (Exhibit I). The Development Agreement
needs to be amended in order incorporate the new land into the project. There one minor
changes addition to the terms of the previous Development Agreement. A section has
been added stating that maintenance of the water system will be the responsibility of the
homeowner’s association.

Criteria for Approval:
Land Use Map Amendment:
The Land Use Map amendment request falls under DCMC Section 9-2-020(F) because the
Land Use Map is part of Draper City’s General Plan. That section lists the following criteria



Urbana                                                               Apps. # 2024-0420-MA
Land Use and Zoning Map Amendments                                           2024-0422-MA
and Development Agreement                     4                              2024-0423-DA
for a General Plan amendment as:

        Plan Amendment: All plan amendments shall be in accordance with Utah Code
        Annotated 10-9a-404, as amended and, unless requested by the city's legislative body,
        shall follow the procedures as outlined in Draper City Municipal Code 9-5-060(D). That
        section is noted as follows:

        D.      Procedure: Zoning text and map amendments shall be considered and
                processed as provided in this subsection:
                1.    A complete application shall be submitted to the office of the Zoning
                      Administrator in a form established by the administrator along with
                      any fee established by the city’s schedule of fees. The application
                      shall include at least the following information:
                      a.      The name, address and telephone number of the applicant
                              and the applicant’s agent, if any.
                      b.      The name and address of every person or company the
                              applicant represents.
                      c.      The requested amendment and reasons supporting the
                              request.
                      d.      If the proposed amendment requires a change in the zoning
                              map, the application shall include:
                              (1)      An accurate property map showing present and
                                       proposed zoning classifications;
                              (2)      All abutting properties showing present zoning
                                       classifications; and
                              (3)      An accurate legal description and an approximate
                                       common address of the area proposed to be rezoned.
                      e.      If the proposed amendment requires a change in the text of
                              this title, the application shall include chapter and section
                              references and a draft of the proposed text.
                2.    After the application is determined to be complete, the zoning
                      administrator shall prepare a staff report evaluating the application.
                3.    The Planning Commission shall schedule and hold a public hearing on
                      the application as provided in sections 9-5-040 and 9-5-045 of this
                      chapter. Following the public meeting, the Planning Commission shall
                      recommend approval, approval with modifications, or denial of the
                      proposed amendment and shall submit its recommendation to the
                      City Council for review and decision.
                4.    The City Council shall schedule and hold a public hearing on the
                      application as provided in sections 9-5-040 and 9-5-045 of this
                      chapter. Following the public hearing, the City Council may approve,
                      approve with modifications, or deny the proposed amendment.




Urbana                                                                 Apps. # 2024-0420-MA
Land Use and Zoning Map Amendments                                             2024-0422-MA
and Development Agreement                       5                              2024-0423-DA
Zoning Map Amendment 9-5-060(E)
A Map Amendment is a matter committed to the legislative discretion of the City Council
and is not controlled by any one standard. However, in making a recommendation to the
City Council, the Planning Commission should consider the following factors in Section 9-5-
060(E) of the DCMC:

1.      Map Amendments:
        a.   Whether the proposed amendment is consistent with goals, objectives and
             policies of the city's general plan;
        b.   Whether the proposed amendment is harmonious with the overall character
             of existing development in the vicinity of the subject property;
        c.   Whether the proposed amendment is consistent with the standards of any
             applicable overlay zone;
        d.   The extent to which the proposed amendment may adversely affect adjacent
             property; and
        e.   The adequacy of facilities and services intended to serve the subject
             property, including, but not limited to, roadways, parks and recreation
             facilities, police and fire protection, schools, stormwater drainage systems,
             water supplies, and wastewater and refuse collection.

Development Agreement
The DCMC does not contain criteria for review and potential approval of a Development
Agreement. It does, however; contain a list of items that are required as part of an
Agreement and limitations to a Development Agreement, as found in DCMC Section 9-5-
200(C) and (D). This section depicts the required materials for such requests as:

C.      Procedure: All development agreements, upon proper execution, shall be recorded
        with the respective County Recorder's Office, shall run with the land, and shall be
        binding on all successors in the ownership of the affected property. A development
        agreement shall contain, at a minimum, the following:
        1.     A legal description of the land subject to the development agreement.
        2.     The restrictions or conditions to be attached to the property including
               development standards and the provision of public facilities.
        3.     The configuration of the project as shown on a project master plan.
        4.     A statement of the benefits and value the development agreement will have
               for the City as a whole, including, but not limited to, assurances of design
               standards, dedication and improvement of open space, parks, trails,
               amenities, or infrastructure such as public rights-of-way or utilities.
        5.     The time frames for performance by the parties.
        6.     A description of the various City approvals required before the
               commencement of construction and other procedures that will be required
               after approval of the development agreement.




Urbana                                                             Apps. # 2024-0420-MA
Land Use and Zoning Map Amendments                                         2024-0422-MA
and Development Agreement                    6                             2024-0423-DA
        7.     Provisions for enforcement of the terms and conditions of the development
               agreement.
        8.     Provisions for making amendments to the development agreement.
        9.     The time limitation of the agreement.
        10.    Such other terms as may be proposed and agreed to between the City and
               developer or subdivider.
D.      Limitations:
        1.     A development agreement under this section may not:
               a.     Limit the City’s authority in the future to:
                      i.      Enact a land use regulation; or
                      ii.     Take any action allowed under Utah Code Annotated Section
                              10-8-84, as amended;
               b.     Require the City to change the zoning designation of an area of land
                      within the City in the future; or
               c.     Contain a term that conflicts with, or is different from, a standard set
                      forth in an existing land use regulation that governs the area subject
                      to the development agreement, unless the City Council approves the
                      development agreement in accordance with the same procedures for
                      enacting a land use regulation under Utah Code Annotated Section
                      10-9a-502, including a review and recommendation from the planning
                      commission and a public hearing.
        2.     The City may not require a development agreement as the only option for
               developing land within the City.
        3.     To the extent that a development agreement does not specifically address a
               matter or concern related to land use or development, the matter or concern
               is governed by;
               a.     Utah Code Annotated 10-9a-530, as amended; and
               b.     Applicable land use regulations of this Title.



REVIEWS
Planning Division Review. The Draper City Planning Division has completed their review of
the Land Use Map Amendment, Zoning Map Amendment and Development Agreement
submissions. Comments from this division, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Engineering and Public Works Divisions Review. The Draper City Engineering and Public
Works Divisions have completed their reviews of the Land Use Map Amendment, Zoning
Map Amendment and Development Agreement submissions. Comments from these
divisions, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Building Division Review. The Draper City Building Division has completed their review of the
Land Use Map Amendment, Zoning Map Amendment and Development Agreement
submissions. Comments from this division, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.


Urbana                                                               Apps. # 2024-0420-MA
Land Use and Zoning Map Amendments                                           2024-0422-MA
and Development Agreement                      7                             2024-0423-DA
Fire Division Review. The Draper City Fire Marshal has completed his review of the Land Use
Map Amendment, Zoning Map Amendment and Development Agreement submissions.
Comments from this division, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Legal Division Review. The Draper City Attorney has completed his review of the Land Use
Map Amendment, Zoning Map Amendment and Development Agreement submissions.
Comments from this division, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Noticing. Notice has been properly issued in the manner outlined in the City and State
Codes.



STAFF RECOMMENDATION
Staff recommends that the Planning Commission review the requests, receive public
comment, and makes decisions based on the findings listed below and the criteria for
approval, or denial, as listed within the staff report.



MODEL MOTIONS AND FINDINGS
Development Agreement
Sample Motion for Positive Recommendation – I move that we forward a positive
recommendation to the City Council for the Development Agreement, as requested by
Jacob Ballstaedt of Garbett Home for the Urbana Development, application 2024-0423-DA,
based on the findings for approval listed in the Staff Report dated February 4, 2025.

Findings for Approval:
1.     The proposed development agreement complies DCMC Section 9-5-200(C) and (D).

Sample Motion for Modified Positive Recommendation – I move that we forward a positive
recommendation to the City Council for the Development Agreement, as requested by
Jacob Ballstaedt of Garbett Homes for the Urbana Development, application 2024-0423-DA,
based on the findings for approval listed in the Staff Report dated February 4, 2025 and as
modified by the additional findings and specific recommendations as follows:

1.      (List additional findings for approval…)
2.      List any specific recommendations…

Sample Motion for Negative Recommendation – I move that we forward a negative
recommendation to the City Council for the Development Agreement, as requested by
Jacob Ballstaedt of Garbett Homes for the Urbana Development, application 2024-0423-DA,
based on the findings for denial listed in the Staff Report dated February 4, 2025.




Urbana                                                             Apps. # 2024-0420-MA
Land Use and Zoning Map Amendments                                         2024-0422-MA
and Development Agreement                      8                           2024-0423-DA
Findings for Denial:
1.     The proposed development agreement does not comply with DCMC Section 9-5-
       200(C) and (D).

Land Use Map Amendment
Sample Motion for Positive Recommendation – I move that we forward a positive
recommendation to the City Council for the Land Use Map Amendment, as requested by
Jacob Ballstaedt of Garbett Homes, for the Urbana Development, application 2024-0420-
MA, based on the findings for approval listed in the Staff Report dated February 4, 2025.

Findings for Approval:
1.     The proposed land use map amendment is consistent with goals, objectives, and
       policies of the city's general plan.
2.     The proposed land use map amendment is harmonious with the overall character
       of existing development in the vicinity of the subject property.
3.     The proposed land use map amendment will not adversely affect adjacent property.
4.     There are adequate facilities and services intended to serve the subject property,
       including, but not limited to, roadways, parks and recreation facilities, police and fire
       protection, schools, stormwater drainage systems, water supplies, and wastewater
       and refuse collection.
5.     The proposed land use map amendment complies with DCMC Section 9-2-020(F).
6.     The legislative body may adopt any amendment to the general plan land use map
       that the legislative body considers appropriate.

Sample Motion for Modified Positive Recommendation – I move that we forward a positive
recommendation to the City Council for the Land Use Map Amendment, as requested by
Jacob Ballstaedt of Garbett Homes, for the Urbana Development, application 2024-0420-
MA, based on the findings for approval listed in the Staff Report dated February 4, 2025
and as modified by additional findings as follows:

1.      (List additional findings for approval…)

Sample Motion for Negative Recommendation – I move that we forward a negative
recommendation to the City Council for the Land Use Map Amendment, as requested by
Jacob Ballstaedt of Garbett Homes, for the Urbana Development, application 2024-0420-
MA, based on the findings for approval listed in the Staff Report dated February 4, 2025.

Findings for Denial:
1.     The proposed land use map amendment is not consistent with goals, objectives,
       and policies of the city's general plan.
2.     The proposed land use map amendment is not harmonious with the overall
       character of existing development in the vicinity of the subject property.
3.     The proposed land use map amendment will adversely affect adjacent property.


Urbana                                                                Apps. # 2024-0420-MA
Land Use and Zoning Map Amendments                                            2024-0422-MA
and Development Agreement                      9                              2024-0423-DA
4.      There are not adequate facilities and services intended to serve the subject
        property, including, but not limited to, roadways, parks and recreation facilities,
        police and fire protection, schools, stormwater drainage systems, water supplies,
        and wastewater and refuse collection.
5.      The legislative body may reject any amendment to the general plan land use map
        that the legislative body considers appropriate.

Zoning Map Amendment
Sample Motion for Positive Recommendation – I move that we forward a positive
recommendation to the City Council for the Zoning Map Amendment, as requested by
Jacob Ballstaedt of Garbett Homes for the Urbana Development, application 2024-0422-
MA, based on the findings for approval listed in the Staff Report dated February 4, 2025.

Findings for Approval:
1.     The proposed zoning map amendment is consistent with goals, objectives, and
       policies of the city's general plan.
2.     The proposed zoning map amendment is harmonious with the overall character of
       existing development in the vicinity of the subject property.
3.     The proposed zoning map amendment is consistent with the standards of any
       applicable overlay zone.
4.     The proposed zoning map amendment will not adversely affect adjacent property.
5.     There are adequate facilities and services intended to serve the subject property,
       including, but not limited to, roadways, parks and recreation facilities, police and fire
       protection, schools, stormwater drainage systems, water supplies, and wastewater
       and refuse collection.

Sample Motion for Modified Positive Recommendation – I move that we forward a positive
recommendation to the City Council for the Zoning Map Amendment, as requested by
Jacob Ballstaedt of Garbett Homes for the Urbana Development, application 2024-0422-
MA, based on the findings for approval listed in the Staff Report dated February 4, 2025
and as modified by additional findings as follows:

1.      (List additional findings for approval…)

Sample Motion for Negative Recommendation – I move that we forward a negative
recommendation to the City Council for the Zoning Map Amendment, as requested by
Jacob Ballstaedt of Garbett Homes for the Urbana Development, application 2024-0422-
MA, based on the findings for approval listed in the Staff Report dated February 4, 2025.

Findings for Denial:
1.     The proposed zoning map amendment is not consistent with goals, objectives, and
       policies of the city's general plan.




Urbana                                                                Apps. # 2024-0420-MA
Land Use and Zoning Map Amendments                                            2024-0422-MA
and Development Agreement                      10                             2024-0423-DA
2.      The proposed zoning map amendment is not harmonious with the overall character
        of existing development in the vicinity of the subject property.
3.      The proposed zoning map amendment will adversely affect adjacent property.
4.      There are not adequate facilities and services intended to serve the subject
        property, including, but not limited to, roadways, parks and recreation facilities,
        police and fire protection, schools, stormwater drainage systems, water supplies,
        and wastewater and refuse collection.




Urbana                                                             Apps. # 2024-0420-MA
Land Use and Zoning Map Amendments                                         2024-0422-MA
and Development Agreement                    11                            2024-0423-DA
                                      EXHIBIT A
                                 DEPARTMENT REVIEWS

REVIEWS ARE NOT MEANT TO BE AN ALL INCLUSIVE LIST OF POSSIBLE COMMENTS OR
CONDITIONS.

Planning Division Review.
No additional comments.

Building Division Review.
No additional comments.

Engineering and Public Works Divisions Review.
No additional comments.

Fire Division Review.
No additional comments.
                                   EXHIBIT B
                               LEGAL DESCRIPTION


      A part of the Southeast 1/4 of Section 24, Township 3 South, Range 1 West, Salt
Lake Base & Meridian, more particularly described as follows:

       Beginning at a point on the northerly line of Lot 13, Sunrise Station Phase 2
recorded as Entry #7652264 on file with the Salt Lake County Recorder, said point
being located N00º07’28”E 540.08 feet along the Quarter Section line to the northerly
line of said Sunrise Station Phase 2 and along said line S89º37’40”E 194.28 feet from
the South Quarter Corner of Section 24, Township 3 South, Range 1 West, Salt Lake
Base & Meridian; running thence N 26°39'42" E 412.47 feet; thence Easterly along the
arc of a non-tangent curve to the left having a radius of 554.37 feet (radius bears:
N 21°54'27" E) a distance of 15.96 feet through a central angle of 01°38'59" Chord:
S 68°55'02" E 15.96 feet; S 26°39'42" W 406.17 feet to the North line of said Sunrise
Station Phase 2 Subdivision; thence N 89°37'40 W 17.72 feet along said Subdivision
to the point of beginning.
                                                            Containing 6,502 sq ft +/-
  EXHIBIT C
VICINITY MAP
 EXHIBIT D
AERIAL MAP
  EXHIBIT E
LAND USE MAP
 EXHIBIT F
ZONING MAP
                   EXHIBIT G
APPLICANT’S RESPONSE – LAND USE MAP AMENDMENT
                               Urbana Land Use Map Amendment

                             285 W. River Chapel Road, Draper Utah

                                            11-25-24



1. The current Land Use designation is Community Commercial. I am requesting the land use be
   changed to Residential Medium-High Density (4-8 du/ac).
2. The property is in a transitional area with single family residential to the south and
   commercial/car dealers to the north and east. The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-Day Saints
   has a chapel directly to the west. The current zone of A-2 is not appropriate for the developing
   area. Commercial use in this area will have a negative impact on the single-family homes to the
   south and the chapel to the west. Commercial will also contribute to the diﬃcult traﬃc situation
   on Loan Peak Parkway. Residential single family has the lowest impact of any realistic use and is
   more harmonious with the single family and LDS chapel on the same block.
3. Small lot single family homes are a great transitional use buﬀering the larger single family lots to
   the south and the LDS chapel to the west from commercial and future commercial to the north
   and east.
4. This Land Use Map Amendment will help Draper City satisfy their requirement to comply with
   recently adopted legislation regarding Moderate Income Housing as shown in chapter 4 of the
   General Plan. As part of this plan Draper City has identiﬁed several strategies to satisfy the law.
   This proposed zone change satisﬁes several of these strategies.
       a. Strategy (F) reads “Zone or rezone for higher density or moderate-income residential
            development in commercial or mixed-use near major transit investment corridors,
            commercial centers, or employment centers”.
       b. Strategy (J) “Implement zoning incentives for moderate income units in new
            developments”.
       c. Strategy (W) “Create or allow for, and reduce regulations related to, multifamily
            residential dwellings compatible in scale and form with detached single-family
            residential dwellings and located in walkable communities within residential or mixed-
            use zones”.
   The property is located within a quarter mile of the 11400 South I-15 interchange. There are
   two bus stops on Loan Peak Parkway that adjoin our property, both are major transit corridors
   that will allow our residents to easily access public and private modes of transportation. The
   neighboring mixed use commercial properties to the north are major employment centers. The
   Walmart Supercenter and Sam’s Club are within walking distance of the property and are the
   largest commercial shopping centers in all of Draper. The neighboring mixed use commercial
   area and the major transportation corridors perfectly satisfy the strategies that the general plan
   has identiﬁed as ways to stratify the City’s moderate housing needs.
                  EXHIBIT H
APPLICANT’S RESPONSE – ZONING MAP AMENDMENT
                               Urbana Zone and Map Amendment

                             285 W. River Chapel Road, Draper Utah

                                            11-25-24



1. The current zoning designation is A-2. The Future Land Use map shows the property as
   Community Commercial. I am requesting the zone be changed to RM2.
2. The property is in a transitional area with single family residential to the south and
   commercial/car dealers to the north and east. The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-Day Saints
   has a chapel directly to the west. The current zone of A-2 is not appropriate for the developing
   area. Commercial use in this area will have a negative impact on the single-family homes to the
   south and the chapel to the west. Commercial will also contribute to the diﬃcult traﬃc situation
   on Loan Peak Parkway. Residential single family has the lowest impact of any realistic use and is
   more harmonious with the single family and LDS chapel on the same block.
3. Small lot single family homes is a great transitional use buﬀering the larger single family lots to
   the south and the LDS chapel to the west from commercial and future commercial to the north
   and east.
4. The property has water, sewer, and storm drain services in the adjoining roads. All traﬃc in and
   out of our community will be onto River Chapel Road, which has capacity. Traﬃc on Lone Peak
   Parkway is challenging during school drop-oﬀ and pickup times. We are not proposing any new
   vehicular access points onto Lone Peak Parkway. The residential use will have a much lower
   impact on the existing roadways than the proposed Community Commercial in the future land
   use map.
5. This zone change will help Draper City satisfy their requirement to comply with recently adopted
   legislation regarding Moderate Income Housing as shown in chapter 4 of the General Plan. As
   part of this plan Draper City has identiﬁed several strategies to satisfy the law. This proposed
   zone change satisﬁes several of these strategies.
        a. Strategy (F) reads “Zone or rezone for higher density or moderate-income residential
            development in commercial or mixed-use near major transit investment corridors,
            commercial centers, or employment centers”.
        b. Strategy (J) “Implement zoning incentives for moderate income units in new
            developments”.
        c. Strategy (W) “Create or allow for, and reduce regulations related to, multifamily
            residential dwellings compatible in scale and form with detached single-family
            residential dwellings and located in walkable communities within residential or mixed-
            use zones”.
   The property is located within a quarter mile of the 11400 South I-15 interchange. There are
   two bus stops on Loan Peak Parkway that adjoin our property, both are major transit corridors
   that will allow our residents to easily access public and private modes of transportation. The
   neighboring mixed use commercial properties to the north are major employment centers. The
   Walmart Supercenter and Sam’s Club are within walking distance of the property and are the
   largest commercial shopping centers in all of Draper. The neighboring mixed use commercial
area and the major transportation corridors perfectly satisfy the strategies that the general plan
has identiﬁed as ways to stratify the City’s moderate housing needs.
                 EXHIBIT I
PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT AMENDMENT
       FIRST AMENDMENT TO MASTER DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT
                              FOR
                            URBANA


THIS FIRST AMENDMENT TO THE MASTER DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT FOR
URBANA is entered into as of this       day of                     , 2024, by and between
Draper City, a Utah municipality (the “City”) and Urbana Draper Investments, LC, a Limited
Liability Company, incorporated in the state of Utah (the “Master Developer”). City and
Master Developer are, from time to time, hereinafter referred to individually as the "Parties."


                                         RECITALS

      A.      The City and Master Developer previously entered into that certain Master
Development Agreement for Urbana (the “MDA”) project on June 4, 2024. The MDA was
recorded in the office of the Salt Lake County Recorder’s Office on July 1, 2024 as Entry No.
14258948 in Book 11501 beginning at Page 6422.

       B.     Subsequent to the recording of the MDA, the Developer has acquired a strip of
property approximately 17 feet wide running along the east boundary of the Urbana Property
(the “Additional Property”).

     C.      The Parties now desire to amend the Legal Description of Property and the
Concept Plan, the Exhibits to the MDA, to incorporate the Additional Property into the MDA.

      D.    Subsequent to the recording of the MDA, the Parties now desire to clarify
ownership and maintenance responsibilities of the water system within the Urbana project.


NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the mutual covenants, and agreements set forth herein,
and for other good and valuable considerations, the receipt and adequacy of which are hereby
acknowledged, the Parties agree to amend the MDA as follows:


                                      AGREEMENT

      Section 1. Exhibits

      1.1    Exhibit “A” Legal Description of Property of the MDA is deleted in its entirety and
             replaced with the new Exhibit “A” attached to this Amendment thereby including
             the Additional Property in the MDA.




                                              1
1.2      Exhibit “B” Concept Plan of the MDA is deleted in its entirety and replaced with
         the new Exhibit “B” attached to this Amendment thereby including the Additional
         Property in the MDA.


Section 2. Miscellaneous
The following provisions shall apply with respect to this First Amendment:

      a. Except as modified herein, the MDA is in full force and effect and is hereby ratified
         by the Parties.
      b. Capitalized terms not defined herein shall have the same meaning as set forth in the
         MDA.
      c. In the event of any conflict between the MDA and this First Amendment, the terms
         and condition of this First Amendment shall control.
      d. This First Amendment may be executed in counterparts, each of which (or any
         combination of which) when signed by all of the Parties shall be deemed an
         original, but all of which when taken together constitute one agreement.


Section 3. Water System
Water System Maintenance. Maintenance of the Water System will be the responsibility of the
homeowners’ association.

         a. Private Community Responsibilities.
                i. Post-Transfer Maintenance. Once the water system has been completed
                    and transferred, the homeowners’ association will assume full responsibility
                    for the ongoing maintenance, repairs, and upgrades of the water
                    infrastructure. This includes ensuring compliance with water quality
                    regulations, scheduling regular inspections, and promptly addressing any
                    identified issues to prevent risks to public health and safety.
                 ii. Responsibility After City Water Meter. All water infrastructure
                     beyond the city water meter, including pipes and connections on
                     private property, is the responsibility of the homeowners’ association.
                     The City is responsible only for infrastructure up to and including the
                     water meter. Any issues beyond the meter, such as leaks or
                     contamination, fall under the homeowners’ association responsibility.
                iii. Funding for Maintenance. The homeowners’ association will establish and
                     manage a maintenance fund to cover the costs associated with the water
                     system's upkeep. All residents will contribute to this fund through
                     assessments or fees as determined by the homeowners’ association.
                iv. Third-Party Services. The homeowners’ association may hire licensed
                     third-party contractors for specialized maintenance and repairs as needed.
                     The homeowners’ association will oversee these contracts and ensure
                     contractors comply with all relevant water safety standards.


                                            2
               b. City Oversight and Intervention. The City reserves the right to intervene if the
                  homeowners’ association fails to maintain the water system in a manner that ensures
                  the health and safety of the public. If the City determines that the water infrastructure
                  poses a risk to public health, it may step in to correct deficiencies at the homeowners’
                  association expense. Additionally, the City has the authority to conduct routine
                  flushing, water quality sampling, and other necessary testing to ensure compliance
                  with health standards. However, the City is not responsible for any infrastructure
                  failures, damages, or disruptions resulting from these activities or from issues within
                  the private water system.



 IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have executed this Amendment by and through
 their respective, duly authorized representatives as of the day and year first herein above written.




MASTER DEVELOPER                                CITY
Urbana Draper Investments, LC                   Draper City

_______________________                         _____________________
By: ________________                            By: ___________,
Its: _________________                          Its: City Manager
Date: ____________                              Date: ____________

Approved as to form and legality:               Attest:

__________________                              __________________
City Attorney                                   City Recorder




                                                    3
CITY ACKNOWLEDGMENT
STATE OF UTAH       )
                      :ss.
COUNTY OF SALT LAKE )

On the _____ day of _________, 2024 personally appeared before me ____________________
who being by me duly sworn, did say that he is the City Manager of Draper City, a political
subdivision of the State of Utah, and that said instrument was signed in behalf of the City by
authority of its City Council and said City Manager acknowledged to me that the City executed
the same.

                                            __________________________________
                                            NOTARY PUBLIC




MASTER DEVELOPER ACKNOWLEDGMENT

STATE OF UTAH       )
                    :ss.
COUNTY OF SALT LAKE )

       On the _____ day of _________, 2024, personally appeared before me Bryson C.
Garbett, who being by me duly sworn, did say that he is the Manager of Urbana Draper
Investments, LC a Utah limited liability company and that the foregoing instrument was duly
authorized by the company at a lawful meeting held by authority of its operating agreement and
signed in behalf of said company.

                                                   ______________________________
                                                   NOTARY PUBLIC




                                               4
              TABLE OF EXHIBITS


Exhibit “A”        Legal Description of Property
Exhibit “B”        Concept Plan




                      5
                                        EXHIBIT A
                                    LEGAL DESCRIPTION

      A part of the Southeast 1/4 of Section 24, Township 3 South, Range 1 West, Salt Lake
Base & Meridian, more particularly described as follows:

        Beginning at a point on the northerly line of Lot 13, Sunrise Station Phase 2 recorded as
Entry #7652264 on file with the Salt Lake County Recorder, said point being located N00º07’28”E
540.08 feet along the Quarter Section line to the northerly line of said Sunrise Station Phase 2 and
along said line S89º37’40”E 194.28 feet from the South Quarter Corner of Section 24, Township
3 South, Range 1 West, Salt Lake Base & Meridian; running thence N 26°39'42" E 412.47 feet;
thence Easterly along the arc of a non-tangent curve to the left having a radius of 554.37 feet
(radius bears: N 21°54'27" E) a distance of 15.96 feet through a central angle of 01°38'59" Chord:
S 68°55'02" E 15.96 feet; S 26°39'42" W 406.17 feet to the North line of said Sunrise Station Phase
2 Subdivision; thence N 89°37'40" W 17.72 feet along said Subdivision to the point of beginning.
                                                                         Containing 6,502 sq ft +/-




                                                 6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Project Summary
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Area:        3.82 AC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Lots:        30 DU
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Density:     7.6 DU / AC

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Lot Mix
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Sargent50'-0" x 79'-0" min.   11
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Matisse47'-0" x 77'-4" min.   7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             272'-2"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Gomez 42'-0" x 81'-8" min.    6




                                                                                    2"
                                                                                10'-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Dexter 42'-0" x 77'-4" min.   6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      TOTAL                         30

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Setbacks
                                                                              Sargent                       15
                                                                                                              '-0"                                                                                                           Open Space ±6,900 sf                                                                                                     Front / Living 15'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Front / Garage 20'




                                                                         '-0"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Rear           20'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                  30'-0"
                                                                        10
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Side           5'
                                                                    Matisse                                                                                                 5' SIDEWALK
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Matisse




                                                                                                                           15'-0"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Parking Provided




                                                                                                                                                       20'-0"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Garage         60
                                          20            79
                                            '-8"             '-0"                                                                                                                                                                                                                              77'-4"                                                 Driveway       60
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Dexter




                                                                                                               ALK
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Open / Guest 15




                                                                                                                                                                                               81'-8"
                                                    Sargent                                                                                                Gomez                                        Matisse




                                                                                                            DEW
                                                                                                                              Sargent                                                                                                             Sargent                                                                                             Total          135 spaces (4.5 / du)




                                                                                                     5' SI
                                                                                         27'
                                                                                             -0"                                                                                                                                                                                  20'-0"




                                                                                                                                                                           20'-0"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         27'-0"




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            5' SIDEWAL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                20'-0"
                                          Matisse                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Matisse




                                                                                                                                                                           20'-0"




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               K
                                                       20
                                                         '-0"



                                                                                                            Sargent                                                      Gomez                                   Matisse                          Sargent




                                                                                                                                                                                                        81'-8"
                                Sargent                                                                                              Dexter                                                                                                                                                          Dexter




                                                                                                                                    20'-0"
                                                                                                   15'-0"




                                                                                                                                               5' SIDEWALK




                                                                                                                                                                                             32'-0"
                                                                                                                                                                                    27'-0"
                                                                                                                                                                15'-0"




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    20'-0"
           12
              '-4"                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             "
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         13'-10




                                                                                                                                                                                    81'-8"
                                                                                                                                                                                             10'-0"
                     Sargent   Gomez               Sargent                      Matisse                        Gomez                  Dexter                             Sargent                                    Gomez                         Dexter    Gomez                      Dexter                 Sargent



                                                                                                                                                                                                                           20'-0"




Architecture + Planning
888.456.5849
ktgy.com
                                                                                RIVER CHAPEL
                                                                                DRAPER CITY, UT                      # 2021-0531
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  CONCEPTUAL DESIGN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  JAN 11, 2024                                                                                                     0   15   30   60
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          CONCEPTUAL YIELD STUDY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ALT 2   A1.0
  EXHIBIT B
CONCEPT PLAN




     7
