                               Development Review Committee
                                    1020 East Pioneer Road
                                      Draper, UT 84020
                                            September 26, 2025

To:             Draper City Planning Commission
                Business Date: October 9, 2025

From:           Development Review Committee

Prepared By: Jennifer Jastremsky, AICP, Community Development Director / Zoning
             Administrator
             Planning Division
             Community Development Department
             801-576-6328, jennifer.jastremsky@draperutah.gov

Re:     Kimballs Junction Addition – Zoning Map and Land Use Map Amendments
        Request
        Application No.: 2025-0171-MA, 2025-0169-MA
        Applicant:        Mike Winters, representing Edge Homes
        Project Location: 625 East 11900 South
        Current Zoning: RA2 (Residential Agricultural, 20,000 ft2 minimum) Zone
        Acreage:          0.83 Acres (Approximately 36,154 ft2)
        Request:          Request for approval of a Zoning Map Amendment from the RA2
                          zone to the RM2 (Multi-family Residential) zone and a Land Use
                          Map Amendment from the Residential Low/Medium Density
                          designation to the Residential High-Density designation.



BACKGROUND AND SUMMARY
This application is a request for approval of a Zoning Map Amendment and Land Use Map
Amendment for approximately 0.83 acres located on the north side of 11900 South, at
approximately 625 East 11900 South. (Exhibit C & D). The property is currently zoned RA2.
The applicant is seeking approval for the map changes to allow the property to be
developed as part of their adjacent multi-family development project.

The applicant obtained approval for similar zoning and land use map change requests on
the adjacent 20 acres of property on June 17, 2025, along with the Kimballs Junction
Development Agreement (Agreement). The Agreement approved a density range of 25-27
dwelling units per acre.




Kimballs Junction Addition                                   App. # 2025-0171-MA, 2025-0169-MA
Zoning and Land Use Map Amendment Request           1
ANALYSIS

General Plan and Zoning.

 Table 1                  General Plan and Zoning Designations                         Exhibit
 Existing Land Use        Residential Low/Medium Density                               Exhibit E
 Current Zoning           RA2                                                          Exhibit F
 Proposed Use             Multi-family Residential
 Adjacent Zoning
    East                  RA1 (Residential Agricultural)
    West                  RM2
    North                 RM2
    South                 RA2

The Residential Low/Medium Density land use designation is characterized as follows:




The proposed Residential High Density land use designation is characterized as follows:




Kimballs Junction Addition                                 App. # 2025-0171-MA, 2025-0169-MA
Zoning and Land Use Map Amendment Request         2
According to Draper City Municipal Code (DCMC) Section 9-8-020 the purpose of the RA2
zone is to “foster low density development with little impact on its surroundings and municipal
services; to generally preserve the character of the City’s semi-rural areas; and to promote and
preserve conditions favorable to large-lot family life, including the keeping of limited numbers of
animals and fowl. The predominant use in these zones is intended to be detached single-family
dwellings, protected from encroachment by commercial and industrial uses.”

According to DCMC Section 9-8-020 the purpose of the requested RM2 zone is to “permit
well designed apartments, townhomes, twin homes, and condominiums at relatively high
densities that are appropriately buffered from and compatible with surrounding land uses.”

The requested RM2 zone is compatible with the requested Residential High Density land
use designation. It allows for a variety of multi-family housing types with up to 12 dwelling
units per acre. The approved Agreement for the Kimballs Junction project allows for
expansion to adjacent parcels as follows:

        Kimballs Junction Development Agreement
        2.6 Expansion of the Project; Additional Land. The Project may be expanded to include
        additional land adjacent to the north side of 11900 South (east of Juan Diego School and
        west of 700 East), so long as such additional land is contiguous to a parcel already




Kimballs Junction Addition                                  App. # 2025-0171-MA, 2025-0169-MA
Zoning and Land Use Map Amendment Request        3
        included in the Project, and such additional land, if added to the Project, shall be
        governed by the terms and conditions of this Agreement, including, without limitation,
        the Maximum Residential Units that may be built on such additional land.

This expansion would allow between 25-27 dwelling units per acre on the subject property,
equaling an additional 21-22 dwelling units in the overall development.

Criteria For Approval.
Zoning Map Amendment
A Text and Map Amendment is a matter committed to the legislative discretion of the City
Council and is not controlled by any one standard. However, in making a recommendation
to the City Council, the Planning Commission should consider the following factors in
Section 9-5-060(E) of the DCMC:

        1. Map Amendments:
            a. Whether the proposed amendment is consistent with goals, objectives and policies
               of the city's general plan;
            b. Whether the proposed amendment is harmonious with the overall character of
               existing development in the vicinity of the subject property;
            c. Whether the proposed amendment is consistent with the standards of any
               applicable overlay zone;
            d. The extent to which the proposed amendment may adversely affect adjacent
               property; and
            e. The adequacy of facilities and services intended to serve the subject property,
               including, but not limited to, roadways, parks and recreation facilities, police and
               fire protection, schools, stormwater drainage systems, water supplies, and
               wastewater and refuse collection.

Land Use Map Amendments
The Land Use Map amendment request falls under DCMC Section 9-2-020(F) because the
Land Use Map is part of Draper City’s General Plan. That section lists the following criteria
for a General Plan amendment as:

        Plan Amendment: All plan amendments shall be in accordance with Utah Code
        Annotated 10-9a-404, as amended and, unless requested by the city's legislative body,
        shall follow the procedures as outlined in Draper City Municipal Code 9-5-060(D).” That
        section is noted as follows:

        D.      Procedure: Zoning text and map amendments shall be considered and processed
                as provided in this subsection:
                1.     A complete application shall be submitted to the office of the zoning
                       administrator in a form established by the administrator along with any




Kimballs Junction Addition                                 App. # 2025-0171-MA, 2025-0169-MA
Zoning and Land Use Map Amendment Request        4
                        fee established by the city’s schedule of fees. The application shall include
                        at least the following information:
                        a.      The name, address and telephone number of the applicant and
                                the applicant’s agent, if any.
                        b.      The name and address of every person or company the applicant
                                represents.
                        c.      The requested amendment and reasons supporting the request.
                        d.      If the proposed amendment requires a change in the zoning map,
                                the application shall include:
                                (1)      An accurate property map showing present and proposed
                                         zoning classifications;
                                (2)      All abutting properties showing present zoning
                                         classifications; and
                                (3)      An accurate legal description and an approximate common
                                         address of the area proposed to be rezoned.
                        e.      If the proposed amendment requires a change in the text of this
                                title, the application shall include chapter and section references
                                and a draft of the proposed text.
                2.      After the application is determined to be complete, the zoning
                        administrator shall prepare a staff report evaluating the application.
                3.      The planning commission shall schedule and hold a public hearing on the
                        application as provided in sections 9-5-040 and 9-5-045 of this chapter.
                        Following the public meeting, the planning commission shall recommend
                        approval, approval with modifications, or denial of the proposed
                        amendment and shall submit its recommendation to the city council for
                        review and decision.
                4.      The city council shall schedule and hold a public hearing on the
                        application as provided in sections 9-5-040 and 9-5-045 of this chapter.
                        Following the public hearing, the city council may approve, approve with
                        modifications, or deny the proposed amendment.

The applicant’s responses to the criteria in Section 9-5-060(E) of the DCMC for
consideration of a Map amendment can be found in Exhibit G of this report.



REVIEWS

Planning Division Review. The Draper City Planning Division has completed their review of
the Zoning Map and Land Use Map Amendment submission. Comments from this division,
if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Engineering and Public Works Divisions Review. The Draper City Engineering and Public
Works Divisions have completed their reviews of the Zoning Map and Land Use Map



Kimballs Junction Addition                                   App. # 2025-0171-MA, 2025-0169-MA
Zoning and Land Use Map Amendment Request         5
Amendment submission. Comments from these divisions, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Building Division Review. The Draper City Building Division has completed their review of the
Zoning Map and Land Use Map Amendment submission. Comments from this division, if
any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Fire Division Review. The Draper City Fire Marshal has completed his review of the Zoning
Map and Land Use Map Amendment submission. Comments from this division, if any, can
be found in Exhibit A.

Legal Division Review. The Draper City Attorney has completed his review of the Zoning Map
and Land Use Map Amendment submission. Comments from this division, if any, can be
found in Exhibit A.

Noticing. Notice has been properly issued in the manner outlined in the City and State
Codes.



STAFF RECOMMENDATION
Staff recommends that the Planning Commission review the request based on the findings
listed below and the criteria for approval, or denial as listed within the staff report. The
Planning Commission should also review the request, hear from the applicant, and receive
public comment prior to making a recommendation.



MODEL MOTIONS AND FINDINGS

Zoning Map Amendment
Sample Motion for Approval – I move that we forward a positive recommendation to the
City Council for the Zoning Map Amendment, as requested by Mike Winters, representing
Edge Homes for Kimballs Junction Addition, application 2025-0169-MA, based on the
findings for approval listed in the Staff Report dated September 26, 2025.

Findings for Approval:

        1.      The zoning map amendment is consistent with goals, objectives and policies
                of the city's general plan.
        2.      The zoning map amendment is consistent with the standards of any
                applicable overlay zone.
        3.      Adequate facilities and services will be available to serve the subject
                property, including, but not limited to, roadways, parks and recreation
                facilities, police and fire protection, schools, stormwater drainage systems,
                water supplies, and wastewater and refuse collection.



Kimballs Junction Addition                               App. # 2025-0171-MA, 2025-0169-MA
Zoning and Land Use Map Amendment Request      6
        4.      The zoning map amendment is appropriate given the approved Kimballs
                Station Area Plan with respect to the Utah State Code requirements of 10-9a-
                403.1.

Sample Motion for Modified Approval– I move that we forward a positive recommendation
to the City Council for the Zoning Map Amendment, as requested by Mike Winters,
representing Edge Homes for Kimballs Junction Addition, application 2025-0169-MA, based
on the findings for approval listed in the Staff Report dated September 26, 2025 and as
modified by the following additional findings:

        1.      (List any additional findings or conditions…)

Sample Motion for Denial – I move that we forward a negative recommendation to the City
Council for the Zoning Map Amendment, as requested by Mike Winters, representing Edge
Homes for Kimballs Junction Addition, application 2025-0169-MA, based on the findings for
denial listed in the Staff Report dated September 26, 2025.

Findings for Denial:

        1.      The zoning map amendment is not consistent with goals, objectives and
                policies of the city's general plan.
        2.      The zoning map amendment is not consistent with the standards of any
                applicable overlay zone.
        3.      Adequate facilities and services will not be available to serve the subject
                property, including, but not limited to, roadways, parks and recreation
                facilities, police and fire protection, schools, stormwater drainage systems,
                water supplies, and wastewater and refuse collection.
        4.      The zoning map amendment is not appropriate given the approved Kimballs
                Station Area Plan with respect to the Utah State Code requirements of 10-9a-
                403.1.

Land Use Map Amendment
Sample Motion for Approval – I move that we forward a positive recommendation to the
City Council for the Land Use Map Amendment, as requested by Mike Winters,
representing Edge Homes for Kimballs Junction Addition, application 2025-0171-MA, based
on the findings for approval listed in the Staff Report dated September 26, 2025.

Findings for Approval:

        1.      The land use map amendment is appropriate and complies with the
                requirements of DCMC Section 9-2-020(F) and Utah State Code 10-9a-404.




Kimballs Junction Addition                                App. # 2025-0171-MA, 2025-0169-MA
Zoning and Land Use Map Amendment Request       7
Sample Motion for Modified Approval– I move that we forward a positive recommendation
to the City Council for the Land Use Map Amendment, as requested by Mike Winters,
representing Edge Homes for Kimballs Junction Addition, application 2025-0171-MA, based
on the findings for approval listed in the Staff Report dated September 26, 2025 and as
modified by the following additional findings:

        1.      (List any additional findings or conditions…)

Sample Motion for Denial – I move that we forward a negative recommendation to the City
Council for the Land Use Map Amendment, as requested by Mike Winters, representing
Edge Homes for Kimballs Junction Addition, application 2025-0171-MA, based on the
findings for denial listed in the Staff Report dated September 26, 2025.

Findings for Denial:

        1.      The land use map amendment does not comply with DCMC Section 9-2-
                020(F) and Utah State Code 10-9a-4.




Kimballs Junction Addition                                App. # 2025-0171-MA, 2025-0169-MA
Zoning and Land Use Map Amendment Request       8
                                      EXHIBIT A
                                 DEPARTMENT REVIEWS

REVIEWS ARE NOT MEANT TO BE AN ALL INCLUSIVE LIST OF POSSIBLE COMMENTS OR
CONDITIONS.

Engineering and Public Works Divisions Review.

       1. The adequacy of facilities and services intended to serve the subject property,
          including but not limited to roadways, parks and recreation facilities, police and
          fire protection, schools, storm water drainage systems, water supplies, and
          waste water and refuse collection; Other than noted below, we are not aware of
          any inadequacies of the facilities intended to serve this property.
          a. The change in zone from residential / agricultural one half acre (RA2) to a
              residential / multifamily (RM2) zone with densities between 25 to 27 units per
              acre, represents a significant increase in traffic based on the density
              potential of the proposed zone. The existing zone would permit one single
              family dwelling, with approximately one peak hour trip and eight daily trips.
              The proposed zone would increase traffic based on proposed densities of up
              to 20 residential dwelling units, as a combined mixture of townhomes,
              apartments, and condominiums. The approximate number of trips
              generated by the proposed density equals 15 peak hour trips and 150 daily
              trips. That being said, the fronting street is the dead-end, single access
              11900 South which is classified as a local residential street. There are peak-
              time commuter congestion on 700 East, an arterial street near the subject
              site, and school traffic in the area with the Skaggs Center just to the west of
              the subject parcels on 11800 South. The size of the subject parcel and the
              potential number of trips generated from the subject area does not
              automatically trigger mitigation to traffic impacts, where mitigation is
              typically contemplated around 100 peak hour trips. However, this area is
              adjacent to mass transit and is part of the area being analyzed for a station
              area plan, as required by state code. With the single access of 11900 South
              to 700 East and the potential of the greater density development, this zone
              change would impact the existing traffic service level. The impacts and
              quantified reduction in trips that would allow an increase in densities
              adjacent to the mass transit without a corresponding increase in traffic
              impacts have not been provided to city with this application. This would be
              determined through a traffic impact study (TIS) for the subject site,
              addressing the projected reduction in vehicle trips being replaced by mass
              transit thereby allowing an increase in density without the corresponding
              increase impacting the existing traffic loads on adjacent streets. Where this
              parcel is being added to a larger development, the site would be included in
   a future TIS. The project mitigation improvements would be a requirement
   of any site development or subdivision approval by the city. Those
   improvements will be completed as part of the development construction.
   There are incomplete public frontage improvements existing on the subject
   site and the missing improvements, park strips and sidewalks, will be
   required of any project.

b. Connectivity with the subject area to public rights-of-way are established
   based the city’s access management plan. Access to and from the subject
   parcel would be on the dead-end 11900 South, a local residential street,
   unless access is provided through the expanded development. Development
   on the subject parcel will be required to have access to the fronting public
   street due to the limited access locations available. Accesses are be required
   to meet Draper City standards as outlined in our Master Transportation Plan.
   Access is evaluated at the time of a site plan or subdivision application and
   will follow the requirements of the TIS.

c. There are no existing storm drainage facilities fronting the subject parcel.
   Therefore a significant amount of storm runoff will need to be retained
   onsite or a connection to city infrastructure would to be constructed offsite
   requiring a pioneering agreement to extend the storm drainage to a
   permissible connection point. Any future site drainage will be required to be
   addressed with any subdivision or site plan application and shall comply with
   the rules and regulations pertaining to site drainage and the provisions of
   the development requirements within the Draper City Municipal Code.

d. Sanitary sewer facilities will be provided by Jordan Basin Improvement
   District. Any subdivision or site plan application will require a commitment
   to serve from the sewer district that facilities are adequate to provide service
   for the proposed uses.

e. Drinking water is provided by WaterPro to the subject parcel. Any
   subdivision or site plan application will require a commitment to serve from
   WaterPro that facilities are adequate to provide service for the proposed
   uses. Accordingly, we will provide comments relative to the potential
   construction activities when the appropriate application is received. Thank
   you for the opportunity to review the Zone and Land Use Amendment
   Requests.
                                      EXHIBIT B
                                  LEGAL DESCRIPTION

The Land referred to herein below is situated in the County of Salt Lake, State of Utah and
is described as follows:
Beginning at a point which is South 00"05'45" West 974 feet along the section line and
North 89"54'15" West 309,79 feet
and North 26°41'30" West 28.005 feet from the Northeast corner of Section 30. Township 3
South, Range 1 East, Salt
Lake Base and Meridian, and running thence North 26°41'30" West 91.145 feet; thence
North 38°41'30" West 286.149
feet; thence South 0°00'54" West 304.41 feet thence South 89°54'15" East 219.90 feet to
the point of beginning.
  EXHIBIT C
VICINITY MAP
 EXHIBIT D
AERIAL MAP
  EXHIBIT E
LAND USE MAP
 EXHIBIT F
ZONING MAP
       EXHIBIT G
APPLICANT QUESTIONAIRE
Subject: Zoning Map and Land Use Amendment



Dear Draper City,

Description of Amendment

EDGEhomes is requesting a Zoning Map Amendment to change the zoning of parcel 28-30-226-
005 (totaling +/- 0.83 acres, see Exhibit A – Property Legal Descriptions) from RA2 (Exhibit B –
Existing Zoning Map) to RM2 (Exhibit C – Proposed Zoning Map; with exceptions to the RM2
zone as approved by Development Agreement For Kimball Junction, June 17, 2025).
EDGEhomes also requests a General Plan Land Use Map Amendment to change the Land Use
from Residential Low/Medium Density to Residential High Density. Both Map Amendment
applications are in an effort to expand the project footprint as described in section 2.6 of the
approved Development Agreement For Kimball Junction. EDGEhomes plans to construct for-
sale condominium and townhome units for a new residential community to be known as
“Kimballs Junction.”

Statement of Justification – Zoning Map Amendment

EDGEhomes respectfully requests a Zoning Map Amendment to support a thoughtfully planned
residential community that aligns with Draper City's long-term vision and addresses current
housing needs. The proposed amendment is based on the following key reasons:

Proposal to Add Parcel No. 28-30-226-005 to the Kimballs Junction Project

Draper City, Utah



Overview

   •   Parcel ID: 28-30-226-005

   •   Size: 0.83 acres

   •   Location: North side of 11900 South, east of Juan Diego Catholic High School, and west
       of 700 East

   •   Current Status: Outside of current Kimballs Junction project boundary

   •   Proposed Action: Inclusion of the parcel into the Kimballs Junction project through
       official city amendments
Required Actions

   •   Zoning Map Amendment

          o   Amend the Draper City Zoning Map to include the parcel within the Kimballs
              Junction zoning boundary.

   •   General Plan Land Use Map Amendment

          o   Update the Draper City General Plan Land Use Map to reflect the inclusion of the
              parcel in the Kimballs Junction land use designation.



Justification Based on Approved Development Agreement

   •   Authority Cited: Kimballs Junction Development Agreement, Section 2.6 – Expansion of
       the Project; Additional Land

   •   Relevant Provisions:

          o   The Project may be expanded to include additional land:

                   ▪   That is adjacent to the north side of 11900 South

                   ▪   Located east of Juan Diego School and west of 700 East

                   ▪   That is contiguous to a parcel already included in the Project

          o   Any added land shall be:

                   ▪   Governed by the terms and conditions of the existing Development
                       Agreement

                   ▪   Subject to the same development restrictions, including:

                          ▪   Maximum Residential Units

                          ▪   Applicable design standards

                          ▪   Use limitations



Compliance with Development Agreement
   •   Contiguity Requirement: Parcel No. 28-30-226-005 is contiguous to an existing project
       parcel

   •   Geographic Qualification: Meets the location criteria defined in Section 2.6

   •   Governance: Parcel will be governed by the current Kimballs Junction Development
       Agreement upon inclusion

   •   Residential Density: Any future development on the parcel will count toward the
       project's total allowed Maximum Residential Units



Conclusion

   •   The proposed inclusion of Parcel No. 28-30-226-005 aligns fully with Draper City’s
       approved Development Agreement for Kimballs Junction.

   •   This amendment supports logical and consistent project expansion, improves land use
       cohesion, and maintains all agreed-upon standards and limitations.



EDGEhomes appreciates the opportunity to build within your city and provide homes for many
future residents desiring to live in Draper City.



_____________________________________
Brandon Watson, P.E.
VP Land Entitlement
EDGEhomes
                                            EXHIBIT A

                                   Property Legal Descriptions

The Land referred to herein below is situated in the County of Salt Lake, State of Utah and is
described as follows:

Beginning at a point which is South 00"05'45" West 974 feet along the section line and North
89"54'15" West 309,79 feet

and North 26°41'30" West 28.005 feet from the Northeast corner of Section 30. Township 3
South, Range 1 East, Salt

Lake Base and Meridian, and running thence North 26°41'30" West 91.145 feet; thence North
38°41'30" West 286.149

feet; thence South 0°00'54" West 304.41 feet thence South 89°54'15" East 219.90 feet to the
point of beginning.
