                                  Development Review Committee
                                      1020 East Pioneer Road
                                        Draper, UT 84020
                                          August 28, 2025

To:              Draper City Planning Commission
                 Business Date: September 11, 2025

From:            Development Review Committee

Prepared By: Nick Whittaker, MCMP, Planner II
             Planning Division
             Community Development Department
             801-576-6522, Nick.Whittaker@draperutah.gov

Re:     Beta-J, LLC. – Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit Request
        Application No.: 2025-0067-USE
        Applicant:        Bryanne Fidler, representing Beta-J, LLC.
        Project Location: 563 W. Sunset Crest Way.
        Current Zoning: R3 ( Single-family residential 13,000 ft2 minimum lot size) Zone
        Acreage:          0.30 Acres (Approximately 13,068 ft2)
        Request:          Request for approval of a Home Occupation Conditional Use
                          Permit in the R3 zone to operate a Cottage Business.



BACKGROUND AND SUMMARY

This application is a request for approval of a Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit for
approximately 0.30 acres located on the South side of Sunset Crest Way at approximately
563 W. Sunset Crest Way. (Exhibit C & D). The property is currently zoned R3. The applicant
is requesting that a Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit be approved to allow for a
cottage business which creates custom magnets which are sold online.

The property is Lot 110 of the Sunset at Draper Ridge Subdivision, Phase 1. The property
has a detached single-family dwelling that was built in 2007. The floor plan found in Exhibit
G of this report indicates that the proposed Home Occupation utilizes a 78 ft2 workroom
located in the basement of the dwelling as an office space to print and assemble custom
magnets and store supplies and inventory (Exhibits C, F, G & H).




Beta-J, LLC.                                                    App. # 2025-0067-USE
Home Occupation Conditional Use Request          1
ANALYSIS

General Plan and Zoning.

 Table 1                   General Plan and Zoning Designations                      Exhibit
 Existing Land Use         Residential Medium Density                                Exhibit D
 Current Zoning            R3                                                        Exhibit E
 Adjacent Zoning
    East                   R3
    West                   R3
    North                  R3
    South                  R3

The Residential Medium Density land use designation is characterized as follows:




According to Draper City Municipal Code (DCMC) Section 9-8-020 the purpose of the R3
zone is to, “permit medium density residential development without special mitigation



Beta-J, LLC.                                                      App. # 2025-0067-USE
Home Occupation Conditional Use Request         2
requirements. This zone is intended to provide incentives to foster residential development
with little impact on its surroundings and on municipal services, and to generally preserve
the semirural character called for in the density element of the general plan.”

Home Occupation. The DCMC Section 9-34-040 outlines development standards applicable
to all home occupations. Those criteria, along with information specific to the subject
request, are as follows:

        A. Ownership: The home occupation shall be owned and operated by a person who
             resides in the dwelling where the home occupation is located. Such person shall
             be the primary provider of the labor, work, or service provided in the home
             occupation.

                 •   The applicant owns the business and resides at the dwelling (Exhibit H).

        B. Business License: A business license for the home occupation shall be obtained
             from and continually maintained with the city pursuant to title 6, chapter 11 of
             this code.

                 •   The applicant indicates that they will obtain and maintain a business
                     license with Draper City.

        C. Employees: Members of the family of the owner who reside in the dwelling may
             be employed in the home occupation. Nonfamily or nonresident employees
             shall be limited to one person.

                 •   The applicant and her husband who resides at the dwelling are the only
                     employees of the business (Exhibit H).

        D. Inspection: All facilities shall comply with fire, building, plumbing, electrical and
             all other city, county, state and federal codes. Inspections during reasonable
             hours by city officials may occur as necessary to assure compliance with
             regulations.

                 •   The applicant has agreed to comply with necessary inspections (Exhibit
                     H).

        E. Inventory: No stock in trade, inventory, or other merchandise to exceed two
             hundred fifty (250) square feet shall be kept on the premises. No outside storage
             is allowed.

                 •   The applicant will only keep supplies and inventory for the business in the
                     workroom which is 78 ft2 (Exhibits F & H)



Beta-J, LLC.                                                       App. # 2025-0067-USE
Home Occupation Conditional Use Request          3
        F. Modification Of Structures Or Yards: There shall be no visible evidence from the
             exterior of a dwelling that it is being used for any other purpose than that of a
             dwelling. No activities shall be carried on outside the dwelling in the yard for the
             benefit of or incidental to the home occupation. No front yard area shall be
             altered to provide parking required for a home occupation.

                 •   The applicant indicates that there will not be any modifications to the
                     property for the purpose of the business and that only the use of a
                     computer, printer, and work table is required to operate their business
                     (Exhibit H).

        G. Nuisance: Tools, items, equipment, or activities conducted within the dwelling
             which is offensive or noxious by reason of the emission of odor, smoke, gas,
             vibration, magnetic interference, or noise shall be prohibited.

                 •   According to the applicant, the business requires the use of a computer, a
                     printer, a handheld magnet press, and a paper cutter (Exhibit H).

        H. Secondary Use: The home occupation shall be clearly incidental and secondary
             to the primary use of the dwelling for residential purposes. The home
             occupation shall not disrupt the normal residential character of the
             neighborhood in which the residence is located. Not more than twenty five
             percent (25%) of the dwelling unit shall be used for the home occupation.

                 •   The applicant indicates that the business will utilize a workroom located
                     in the basement of the dwelling. The room is 78 ft2 which is 1.7% of the
                     dwelling’s total square footage. (Exhibits F & H).

        I.   Signs: All signage in a residential area must comply with chapter 26, "Signs", of
             this title.

                 •   The home occupation will not have any signage on the property (Exhibit
                     H).

        J.   Traffic, Parking, And Access: No home occupation use shall generate pedestrian,
             parking, or vehicular traffic in excess of that customarily associated with the
             zone in which the use is located. All parking shall be provided and maintained on
             site with adequate provision for drop off traffic.

                 •   No customers come to the home. All customer interactions and sales are
                     conducted online (Exhibit H).




Beta-J, LLC.                                                       App. # 2025-0067-USE
Home Occupation Conditional Use Request          4
        K. Vehicles: Other than the business owner's personal transportation, there shall
             be no vehicles or equipment on the property associated with the home
             occupation which would not normally be found at a residence. No signage for
             the home occupation shall be allowed on vehicles.

                 •   There are no business vehicles used in the operation of the home
                     occupation (Exhibit H).

        L. Yards: Yards surrounding the dwelling and accessory buildings shall not be used
             for any activities or storage of any materials associated with the home
             occupation.

                 •   There will not be any storage or production of materials and products of
                     in the surrounding yards (Exhibit H).

        M. Customers: No customers allowed. Children accessing a limited daycare or
           limited preschool facility shall not be considered customers.

                 •   No customers come to the home. All Customer activity is online (Exhibit
                     H).

        N. Utility Demand: The home occupation shall not cause a demand for public
             utilities in excess of that necessarily and customarily provided for residential
             uses.

                 •   The applicant indicates that utility demands will not be high (Exhibit H).

        O. Main Structure: The home occupations shall be conducted, located, and
           contained within the primary structure on the property.

                 •   The applicant indicates that all aspects of the business will be conducted
                     within the home (Exhibit H).

        P. Single-Family And Multiple-Family Dwellings: Home occupations listed as
             permitted or conditional within this title may be permitted in a single-family or a
             multiple-family dwelling, subject to the standards found within this section and
             section 9-34-060 of this chapter. Businesses within multiple-family dwellings
             shall provide an approval letter from the respective homeowners' association, or
             management company in the case of apartments, if the business proposes any
             employees, customers or business vehicles.

                 •   The property contains a single-family dwelling (Exhibit H).




Beta-J, LLC.                                                        App. # 2025-0067-USE
Home Occupation Conditional Use Request          5
        Q. Licensure: Any home occupation involving childcare shall comply with all
             applicable state and local laws and regulations regarding residential childcare,
             including, but not limited to, provisions of the Utah child care licensing act, as set
             forth in Utah Code Annotated section 26-39-101 et seq., as amended, and the
             residential certificate childcare standards as set forth in the Utah administrative
             code section R430-50-1 et seq., as amended. In addition, cottage food
             production operations are regulated and inspected by the Utah department of
             agriculture. Any food related home occupation under their jurisdiction must
             comply with these regulations.

                 •   The home occupation does not involve child care or cottage food
                     production.



The proposed Home Occupation is a Cottage Business which requires a Conditional Use
Permit per DCMC 9-34-050.

A cottage business is defined in the DCMC 9-3-040 as, “A business where products are
created in the home. The products are unique in nature, such as handicraft, art, and
jewelry. Limited food production can also be considered. Anything that uses a material, a
mixture of materials or a quantity of materials that could be classified by the fire marshal
or building official as dangerous or hazardous will not be allowed.”

The requirements and standards for approval of a Conditional Use Permit are found in 9-5-
080(E) of the DCMC. The reasonably anticipated detrimental effects related to operating a
cottage business are typically the potential for loud noises or odors discernable from
outside of the property, and traffic generated by customers. In regards to this particular
home occupation these detrimental effects are mitigated by the small size of the overall
operation, and the fact that all business operations are conducted entirely within the
applicant’s residence. Additionally, there are no impacts to neighborhood traffic as no
customers come to the home, and there are no business vehicles.



Criteria for Approval.

The criteria for review and potential approval of a conditional use permit request is found
in Section 9-5-080(E) of the DCMC. This section depicts the standard of review for such
requests as:

        E. Approval Standards: The standards of this subsection shall apply to the issuance
            of a conditional use permit:




Beta-J, LLC.                                                        App. # 2025-0067-USE
Home Occupation Conditional Use Request          6
          1. A conditional use permit may be issued for a use to be located within a zone
             where the particular conditional use is allowed by the use regulations of the
             zone.
          2. Reasonable conditions may be imposed as necessary to substantially mitigate
             reasonably anticipated detrimental effects of the proposed use. These
             conditions may include conditions concerning use, construction, character,
             location, landscaping, screening, parking, hours of operation, and other matters
             relating to the purposes and objectives of this section. Such conditions shall be
             expressly set forth in the motion authorizing the conditional use permit.
          3. If the reasonably anticipated detrimental effects of a proposed conditional use
             cannot be substantially mitigated by the imposition of reasonable conditions to
             achieve compliance with applicable standards, the conditional use may be
             denied.
          4. The following factors shall be reviewed and considered in determining whether a
             conditional use permit application should be approved, approved with
             conditions, or denied because reasonable conditions cannot be imposed to
             achieve compliance with applicable standards:
               a. The harmony and compliance of the proposed use with the objectives and
                  requirements of the city's general plan and this title;
               b. The suitability of the specific property for the proposed use;
               c. Whether the proposed use or facility may be injurious to potential or existing
                  development in the vicinity;
               d. The economic impact of the proposed facility or use on the surrounding
                  area;
               e. The aesthetic impact of the proposed facility or use on the surrounding area;
               f. The safeguards proposed or provided to ensure adequate utilities,
                  transportation access, drainage, parking, loading space, lighting, screening,
                  landscaping, open space, fire protection, and pedestrian and vehicular
                  circulation;
               g. The safeguards provided or proposed to prevent noxious or offensive
                  emissions such as noise, glare, dust, pollutants and odor from the proposed
                  facility or use; and
               h. The impact of the proposed facility or use on the health, safety, and welfare
                  of the city, the area, and persons owning or leasing property in the area.
          5. The planning commission may request additional information as may be
             reasonably needed to determine whether the requirements of this subsection E
             can be met.




REVIEWS

Planning Division Review. The Draper City Planning Division has completed their review of



Beta-J, LLC.                                                      App. # 2025-0067-USE
Home Occupation Conditional Use Request         7
the Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit submission. Comments from this division, if
any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Engineering and Public Works Divisions Review. The Draper City Engineering and Public
Works Divisions have completed their reviews of the Home Occupation Conditional Use
Permit submission. Comments from these divisions, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Building Division Review. The Draper City Building Division has completed their review of
the Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit submission. Comments from this division, if
any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Fire Division Review. The Draper City Fire Marshal has completed his review of the Home
Occupation Conditional Use Permit submission. Comments from this division, if any, can
be found in Exhibit A.

Noticing. Notice has been properly issued in the manner outlined in the City and State
Codes.



STAFF RECOMMENDATION

Staff recommends that the Planning Commission review the request based on the findings
and the criteria for approval, or denial as listed within the staff report. The Planning
Commission should also review the request, hear from the applicant, and receive public
comment prior to making a decision.

If the Planning Commission decides to approve the request, staff recommends they include
the following conditions of approval:

    1. That all requirements of the Draper City Engineering, Public Works, Building,
       Planning, and Fire Divisions are satisfied.
    2. That a Draper City business license shall be obtained and maintained by the
       business owner for as long as the business remains in operation.
    3. That all production and assembly of the custom magnets shall be confined to the
       area indicated in this report and as shown on the approved site plans.
    4. That no customers shall come to the home.



MODEL MOTIONS AND FINDINGS

Sample Motion for Approval – I move that we approve the Home Occupation Conditional
Use Permit, as requested by Bryanne Fidler, representing Beta-J, LLC. Application 2025-




Beta-J, LLC.                                                  App. # 2025-0067-USE
Home Occupation Conditional Use Request      8
0067-USE, based on the following findings for approval and subject to the conditions listed
in the Staff Report dated August 28, 2025.

Findings for approval:

        1. The proposal complies with the standards for approval found in DCMC Section 9-
           5-080(E) and potential negative impacts are mitigated through the imposition of
           reasonable conditions.

I move that we approve the Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit, as requested by
Bryanne Fidler, representing Beta-J, LLC. Application 2025-0067-USE, based on the findings
for approval and subject to the conditions listed in the Staff Report dated August 28, 2025
and as modified by the following additional findings or conditions:

        1. (List any additional findings…)
        2. (List any additional conditions…)

Sample Motion for Denial – I move that we deny the Home Occupation Conditional Use
Permit, as requested by Bryanne Fidler, representing Beta-J, LLC. Application 2025-0067-
USE, based on the following findings for denial listed in the Staff Report dated August 28,
2025.

Findings for denial:

        1. The proposal does not comply with all standards for approval found in DCMC
           Section 9-5-080(E) and potential negative impacts are not able to be sufficiently
           mitigated through the imposition of reasonable conditions.




Beta-J, LLC.                                                    App. # 2025-0067-USE
Home Occupation Conditional Use Request        9
                     DEVELOPMENT REVIEW COMMITTEE ACKNOWLEDGEMENT


We, the undersigned, as duly appointed members of the Draper City Development Review
Committee, do acknowledge that the application which provides the subject for this staff
report has been reviewed by the Committee and has been found to be appropriate for
review by the Draper City Planning Commission and/or City Council.

                                                                                                                  ftjgnpd by   A.
                           Oigitally signed By Bnan Manlield                                             Orsper
                           DN:MJS.                                                                       CMC-US.

                           E>Onan.mii>f«)a®drapeni'an gav,                              Todd A. Draper
  Brien Maxfield O*0rapor, OU-Public Works ●                                                             CH-TwMA. Draper
                           Engiriearng. CN«Bnerr Maxtield                                                DKe 2C2SS9 03
                           Date: 2025.09.03 10r04.29 06'00’                                              ie:IS37-06«r




Draper City Public Works Department                                                Draper City Planning Division


                                   »igA«d by Don



Don Buckley
                            DN: C-US, C«don bu«ht«>9tfr^r           .0*QraMf Cny
                            f*rt D«p<<RrrMirit, OU«rir« hUrvuJ, CN»Dor BijcMey
                                 K>i 09 03 IS 31




Draper City Fire Department                                                        Draper<!ity lf€gal Counsel

                          Og’SKy sgrwdBy ManttewSyr...
                          DN C*JS. E>mansyiras$0iap>rulah.9ov.
Matthew Symes 0-Diaper Crty Coip.. CN>Msigipw Symvs
                          Oa:e:202SMCt3 II:l2<e.06'0Q'




Draper City Building Division
                                     EXHIBIT A
                                DEPARTMENT REVIEWS

REVIEWS ARE NOT MEANT TO BE AN ALL-INCLUSIVE LIST OF POSSIBLE COMMENTS OR
CONDITIONS.



Planning Division Review.

       1.     No Additional Comments

Engineering and Public Works Divisions Review.

       1.     No Additional Comments

Building Division Review.

       1.     No Additional Comments

Fire Division Review.

       1.     No Additional Comments
  EXHIBIT B
VICINITY MAP
 EXHIBIT C
AERIAL MAP
  EXHIBIT D
LAND USE MAP
 EXHIBIT E
ZONING MAP
EXHIBIT F
SITE PLAN
  EXHIBIT G
FLOOR PLANS
      EXHIBIT H
APPLICANT STATEMENTS
                                    Home Occupation Questionnaire



Overview of Proposed Use

   •   We are proposing to obtain a business license to be able to make small custom magnets here in our home that
       will be marketed and sold online through the websites, Etsy and Shopify. Items are only to be sold online and
       customers will not be coming to the home. The only employees are myself and my husband. We will be using a
       small room in the basement for this business. We do not see this business being something that will impact
       those residing around us. All production will be done in a small room and hours of operation will be done during
       reasonable waking hours.




Analysis of Home Occupation Standards Deviation

   •   Ownership: Yes, my husband and myself are the occupants of the home and are the only employees.

   •   Business License: It is understood that a business license will be obtained and continually maintained.

   •   Employees: The only employees for the business at this time will be myself and my husband. It is understood
       that if in the future additional help is needed that a nonfamily or nonresident employees shall be limited to one
       person.

   •   Inspection: It is understood that the residence shall comply with fire, building, plumbing, electrical and all other
       city, county, state and federal codes. Also, that inspections may occur as necessary to assure compliance with
       regulations.

   •   Inventory: We only plan to keep supplies and inventory for the business in the small workspace that is pictured.
       Being a magnet business, materials are small and do not require much space.

   •   Modification Of Structures Or Yards: There will not be any modifications to our property for the purpose of the
       business. Only need the use of a computer, printer and work table is required.

   •   Nuisance: Our business requires the use of a computer, a printer, a handheld magnet press and paper cutter.

   •   Secondary Use: The business will only require the use of a small room in the home. The primary purpose of the
       home is for residential use.

   •   Signs: There are no plans for any signage of any sort. We are purposing to start a business that sells items online
       and all sales and efforts will be made through social media and online markets like Shopify and Etsy.

   •   Traffic, Parking, And Access: Items are not being sold from the home. All sales will be conducted online and
       goods will be dropped off at shipping facilities like USPS and FedEx. This is NA to our business.

   •   Vehicles: There will only be family vehicles on the property. Our small magnet business will not have the need
       for a special vehicle required for business purposes.
   •   Yards: All assembly and storage of goods is to be in the small storage room. There will not be any storage of
       goods or production of goods in the yard.

   •   Customers: There will be no customers coming to the home for magnets. This is strictly a business conducted
       online.

   •   Utility Demand: There will not be any high utility demands from this business. We only require the use of a
       computer and printer to use the utilities. The magnet press is a hand press.

   •   Main Structure: It is understood that all aspects of the business will be conducted, located, and contained within
       the home.

   •   Single-Family And Multiple-Family Dwellings: This is a single-family home. Only my husband and myself will be
       the employees.

   •   Licensure: N/A The home occupation does not involve child care or food production

Draper City defines us a cottage business. We are seeking a business license because we would like to make goods here
in the home and as such need this type of license to be in compliance with city regulations.
