                                Development Review Committee
                                    1020 East Pioneer Road
                                      Draper, UT 84020
                                        December 18, 2024

To:                 Draper City Planning Commission
                    Business Date: January 9, 2025

From:               Development Review Committee

Prepared By: Nick Whittaker, MCMP, Planner II
             Planning Division
             Community Development Department
             801-576-6522, Nick.Whittaker@draperutah.gov

Re:      Danner I-ADU– Deviation Request
         Application No.: 2024-0419-VAR
         Applicant:        Karen Danner, representing The Draper Danner Family Trust
         Project Location: 1177 E. Hickenlooper Way.
         Current Zoning: RM (Residential Multiple Family) Zone,
                           South Mountain Development Agreement
         Acreage:          Approximately 0.19 Acres (8,276 ft2)
         Request:          Request for approval of a Deviation from strict compliance with
                           the geographical restrictions for Internal Accessory Dwelling Units
                           (I-ADU’s).



BACKGROUND AND SUMMARY

This application is a request for approval of a Deviation from strict compliance with the
geographical restrictions for I-ADU’s for approximately 0.19 acres located on the north side
of Hickenlooper Way, at approximately 1177 E. Hickenlooper Way. (Exhibit B and C). The
property is currently zoned RM and is subject to the South Mountain Development
Agreement. The applicant is requesting the Deviation be approved to allow for the
development of an I-ADU in the basement of the existing single-family dwelling.

The subject property is lot 212 of the South Mountain Phase 1 Subdivision and a single-
family dwelling was built on the property in 1995. The property is located within a mapped
area of the City where I-ADU’s are prohibited (Exhibit F). The applicant has submitted a
separate application for the creation of an I-ADU within the single-family dwelling on the




Danner I-ADU                                                         App. # 2024-0419-VAR
Deviation Request                               1
subject property which is pending approval of this deviation request.


ANALYSIS

General Plan and Zoning.
 Table 1              General Plan and Zoning Designations                      Exhibit
 Existing Land Use    Residential Medium Density                                Exhibit D
 Current Zoning       RM                                                        Exhibit E
 Adjacent Zoning
    East              RM
    West              RM
    North             OS (Open Space)
    South             RM



The Residential Medium Density land use designation is characterized as follows:




Danner I-ADU                                                       App. # 2024-0419-VAR
Deviation Request                            2
According to the 1990 Draper City Municipal Code (DCMC) Section 9-13-4(c) the purpose of
the RM zone is to “provide areas for low-to-medium residential density with the
opportunity for varied housing styles and character, providing for a maximum density of up
to twelve (12) units per acre.”

Site Plan Layout. A site plan, elevation photos, and floor plans for the proposed creation of
the I-ADU are provided as Exhibits G, H and I. The entrance to the I-ADU would be located
in the rear of the existing home as a walk-out basement. The property is approximately
8,276 ft2 in size which surpasses the 6,000 ft2 minimum needed to satisfy the size
requirement for approval of the deviation as described in section 9-31-055(A) of the DCMC.
The subject property does not contain a Detached Accessory Dwelling Unit (D-ADU).

Parking. The proposed site plan (Exhibit G) shows the designated off-street parking for the
proposed I-ADU located on the existing driveway. The applicant indicates that the driveway
space in front of the 3rd car garage and the parking pad located directly to the west of the
3rd car garage will be designated for use by the I-ADU (Exhibit J). The proposed parking plan
complies with the requirement for approval of a deviation request that a minimum of two
(2) parking stalls be designated for use by the occupants of the I-ADU.

Criteria For Approval.
The criteria for review and potential approval of a Deviation request for an I-ADU is found
in Section 9-31-055 of the DCMC. This section depicts the standard of review for such
requests as:

    A. Deviation Authorized: A deviation from strict compliance with the prohibition of I-
       ADUs on properties located within the areas identified on the I-ADU map in Exhibit A
       of this chapter may be approved by the planning commission if all of the following
       criteria are met and the planning commission finds that:
       1. The lot or parcel on which the primary dwelling is located is at least six thousand
           square feet (6,000 ft²);
       2. No D-ADU exists on the property;
       3. The proposed I-ADU meets all of the requirements of sections 9-31-030 and 9-
           31-045, including other applicable requirements of this chapter; and
       4. At least two (2) parking stalls meeting the requirements of 9-31-045(B)(2) are
           provided for use by occupants of the I-ADU.

The requirements of Section 9-31-30 of the DCMC are as follows:

    A. An ADU shall not be rented or leased or offered for rent or lease unless the owner
       of record possesses a valid ADU Permit.
    B. D-ADUs shall not be permitted for any property containing an I-ADU. As a condition
       of approval for an application for a new D-ADU the owner of record shall agree to
       waive any right to create an I-ADU on the same property unless the D-ADU is first



Danner I-ADU                                                         App. # 2024-0419-VAR
Deviation Request                             3
        removed from the property. This condition shall be included in the recorded notice
        of accessory dwelling unit required by section 9-31-060 of this chapter.
    C. Primary dwellings are not permitted to contain more than one I-ADU. I-ADUs are not
        permitted within a D-ADU or other detached structure.
    D. I-ADUs shall not be permitted in single-family residential dwellings located on lots
        or parcels that are six-thousand square feet (6,000 ft²) or less in size.
    E. I-ADUs are not permitted within mobile homes.
    F. I-ADUs are not permitted within a primary dwelling unit serviced by a failing septic
        system.
    G. Separate utility meters may not be installed for any I-ADU or D-ADU.
    H. An I-ADU shall not be rented or leased for a time period of less than thirty (30)
        consecutive days. Only one rental agreement or lease shall be in effect at any one
        time.
    I. No ADU or dwelling associated with an ADU may be separately rented, leased, hired
        or loaned unless the owner of record occupies either the dwelling or the ADU as
        their primary residence.
    J. An ADU Permit issued by the zoning administrator shall be required for the
        development and use of any ADU and shall only be issued once all regulations and
        standards of this section and sections 9-31-040 or 9-31-045 as applicable to the
        specific type of ADU are met. The ADU Permit shall be subject to the application and
        review procedures, including the annual renewal requirements and procedures of
        section 9-5-210. (Ord. 1132, 2-17-2015; amd. Ord. 1499, 9-21-2021; Ord. 1626, 11-12-
        2024)

The requirements of Section 9-31-045 are as follows:

    A. Existing Structure: An I-ADU shall be contained within the existing footprint of the
       primary dwelling. Second kitchens within the primary dwelling's footprint are not
       considered an I-ADU and are subject to requirements found in chapter 30 of this
       title. An existing second kitchen located within a primary dwelling can be converted
       as part of an application for the creation of an I-ADU in compliance with all other
       standards for I-ADUs listed in this chapter.
    B. Conditions: An I-ADU shall comply with the applicable requirements of section 9-31-
       030 and with all of the following conditions:
       1. Only one I-ADU shall be allowed per lot or parcel.
       2. At least one additional parking stall above the minimum required for the primary
            dwelling shall be provided on site and be reserved for exclusive use by
            occupants of the I-ADU. The parking stall(s) provided for use of the occupants of
            the I-ADU may not be located in tandem with parking stalls designed to serve the
            primary dwelling and shall be accessible from the street by a driveway.
            Driveways must conform to all requirements of section 9-10-075 and other
            applicable requirements of this title. Parking stalls shall be constructed of




Danner I-ADU                                                        App. # 2024-0419-VAR
Deviation Request                             4
            concrete or asphalt and shall comply with the applicable requirements of
            sections 9-25-070 and 9-25-080.
         3. If an I-ADU is created within a garage or carport attached to the primary
            dwelling, the parking spaces contained within the garage or carport that are
            removed shall be replaced in accordance with current parking and access
            standards.
         4. The I-ADU shall comply with all applicable building, health and fire codes in
            effect at the time the I-ADU is constructed, created or subsequently remodeled.
            The owner of record shall be responsible to ensure that all required building
            permits and other permits are obtained for the creation of an I-ADU.
         5. In accommodating an I-ADU within the primary dwelling, the exterior of the
            primary dwelling may not be changed or altered in a manner that would alter
            the appearance of the primary dwelling from that of a single-family dwelling.
            (Ord. 1499, 9-21-2021)

The proposed site plan, proposed floor plans, and elevation photos provided with this
Deviation application have been reviewed by staff and have been determined to comply
with the criteria necessary for approval of a deviation from strict compliance with the
geographical restrictions for I-ADU’s.



REVIEWS

Planning Division Review. The Draper City Planning Division has completed their review of
the Deviation Request. Comments from this division, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Engineering and Public Works Divisions Review. The Draper City Engineering and Public
Works Divisions have completed their reviews of the Deviation Request. Comments from
these divisions, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Building Division Review. The Draper City Building Division has completed their review of
the Deviation Request. Comments from this division, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Fire Division Review. The Draper City Fire Marshal has completed his review of the
Deviation Request. Comments from this division, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Noticing. Notice has been properly issued in the manner outlined in the City and State
Codes.



STAFF RECOMMENDATION

Staff finds that the application complies with the DCMC and recommends that the Planning



Danner I-ADU                                                        App. # 2024-0419-VAR
Deviation Request                             5
Commission review the request, and approve the application based on the criteria and
findings for approval, as listed within the staff report.



MODEL MOTIONS

Sample Motion for Approval – I move that we approve the Deviation request from strict
compliance with the geographical restrictions for I-ADU’s, as requested by Karen Danner
representing the Draper Danner Family Trust, application 2024-0419-VAR based on the
following findings for approval and the criteria for approval as listed in the Staff Report
dated December 18, 2024.

Findings for Approval:

    1. The lot or parcel on which the primary dwelling is located is at least six thousand
       square feet (6,000 ft²);
    2. No D-ADU exists on the property;
    3. The proposed I-ADU can meet all of the requirements of DCMC sections 9-31-
       030 and 9-31-045, including other applicable requirements of chapter 9-31 before
       issuance of an ADU permit; and
    4. At least two (2) parking stalls meeting the requirements of 9-31-045(B)(2) are
       provided for use by occupants of the I-ADU.



Sample Motion for Denial – I move that we deny the Deviation request from strict
compliance with the geographical restrictions for I-ADU’s, as requested by Karen Danner
representing the Draper Danner Family Trust, application 2024-0419-VAR based on the
following findings for denial and the criteria for approval as listed in the Staff Report dated
December 18, 2024.

Findings for Denial:

    1. The proposed I-ADU does not meet all of the requirements listed in DCMC
       sections 9-31-030 , 9-31-045, or other applicable requirements of Chapter 9-31.




Danner I-ADU                                                          App. # 2024-0419-VAR
Deviation Request                              6
                                      EXHIBIT A
                                 DEPARTMENT REVIEWS

REVIEWS ARE NOT MEANT TO BE AN ALL-INCLUSIVE LIST OF POSSIBLE COMMENTS OR
CONDITIONS.



Planning Division Review.

       1.     The property is over the 6,000 ft2 threshold, does not already contain an I-
              ADU, or a D-ADU and can provide the 2 required off street parking stalls
              required for approval of a deviation from the prohibition against I-ADUs. The
              proposed I-ADU will comply with all other applicable requirements of DCMC
              Sections 9-31-030 and 9-31-045.
       2.     A basement finish permit was filed in 2014 (Application BF-2014-00706-DRA)
              and did not receive its final inspection but passed all reviews and inspections
              prior to the final. This should not prevent the issuance of the deviation,
              however, the inspection should be completed prior to issuing an I-ADU
              permit.



Engineering and Public Works Divisions Review.
   1. No additional Comments.



Building Division Review.
   1. No additional comments.



Fire Division Review.
   1. No additional comments.
  EXHIBIT B
VICINITY MAP
EXHIBIT C
ARIEL MAP
  EXHIBIT D
LAND USE MAP
 EXHIBIT E
ZONING MAP
       EXHIBIT F
I-ADU RESTRICTION MAP
EXHIBIT G
SITE PLAN
         EXHIBIT H
EXTERIOR ELEVATION PHOTOS
  EXHIBIT I
FLOOR PLANS
        EXHIBIT J
APPLICANT REQUEST LETTER
Karen Danner
1177 E Hickenlooper Way
Draper, UT
801-244-7703
karenodanner@gmail.com


Re: ADU-1539-2024


November 25, 2024
Dear Hiring Manager,
I am writing to request a deviation to the I-ADU request referenced above. Please see these
notes on the original application by Planning and Zoning.
       Notice of a proposed ordinance change was published on 9/27/2024 which if approved
       would have the effect of permitting this property to apply for a deviation from the
       prohibition against creating an I-ADU on the property. Accordingly Planning will hold this
       application open until the end of November 2024 rather than denying the application as
       the potential ordinance change could allow for an application to move forward at that
       time. A separate Deviation application request would need to be filed after the new
       ordinance is in effect. - TAD
My home is ideal for an I-ADU including two off street parking places besides a 3-car garage
(for what would be a total of 3 cars on this property) and a separate safe and lighted entrance.
The apartment is spacious and offers 2 bedrooms, 1 bathroom with double vanity, washer and
dryer, and a large kitchen and living area. Our neighborhood has not had the negative
experiences other neighborhoods have experienced with ADUs, and I-ADUs are generally
perceived positively. I will continue to occupy the main floors of this house.
My husband and I began building this ADU in 2014 as evidenced by the building permit. We
also applied for and received a permit for a separate kitchen as required by Salt Lake County, at
that time. Because my husband subsequently became disabled, we were unable financially and
physically to complete the build. Had we been able to complete the build at that time, we would
have been eligible for the ADU to be grandfathered in the early 2020’s. My husband died in
June 2023 so I then had resources to complete the ADU. I have lived in this house since 1996
and have always planned to have a basement ADU for financial security. Without the extra
income, I will not be able to stay in my home.
I appreciate your consideration in this matter.
Sincerely,
Karen Danner
