                               Development Review Committee
                                   1020 East Pioneer Road
                                     Draper, UT 84020
                                     December 18, 2024

To:             Draper City Planning Commission
                Business Date: January 9, 2025

From:           Development Review Committee

Prepared By: Nick Whittaker, MCMP, Planner II
             Planning Division
             Community Development Department
             801-576-6522, nick.whittaker@draperutah.gov

Re:     South Willow – Zoning Map Amendment Request
        Application No.: 2024-0340-MA
        Applicant:        Brandon Preece of Gilson Engineering, representing Vanguard
                          QA, LLC.
        Project Location: 516 E. 13800 S.
        Current Zoning: RA1 (Residential Agricultural, 40,000 ft² min. lot size)
        Acreage:          2.43 Acres (Approximately 105,850.8 ft2)
        Request:          Request for approval of a Zoning Map Amendment from RA1 to
                          RA2 (Residential Agricultural, 20,000 ft² min. lot size).



BACKGROUND AND SUMMARY

This application is a request for approval of a Zoning Map Amendment from RA1 to RA2 for
approximately 2.43 acres located on the south side of 13800 S. at approximately 516 E.
13800 S (Exhibits C and D). The applicant is requesting that a Zoning Map Amendment be
approved so that the applicant can develop as many as 4 residential lots for single family
homes.

The property is comprised of three parcels. A single-family home built in 1938 is located on
the parcel that fronts onto 13800 S.



ANALYSIS




South Willow                                                          App. # 2024-0340-MA
Zoning Map Amendment Request                 1
General Plan and Zoning.

 Table 1                 General Plan and Zoning Designations                 Exhibit
 Existing Land Use       Residential Low/Medium Density                       Exhibit E
 Current Zoning          RA1                                                  Exhibit F
 Proposed Zoning         RA2                                                  Exhibit H
 Adjacent Zoning
    East                 RA2
    West                 RA2
    North                RA2
    South                RA2

The Residential Low/Medium Density land use designation is characterized as follows:




According to Draper City Municipal Code (DCMC) Section 9-8-020(B)(1) the purpose of both
the RA1 and RA2 zones is to “foster low density development with little impact on its



South Willow                                                        App. # 2024-0340-MA
Zoning Map Amendment Request                  2
surroundings and municipal services; to generally preserve the character of the City’s semi-
rural areas; and to promote and preserve conditions favorable to large-lot family life,
including the keeping of limited numbers of animals and fowl. The predominant use in
these zones is intended to be detached single-family dwellings, protected from
encroachment by commercial and industrial uses.”

Criteria for Approval
A Map Amendment is a matter committed to the legislative discretion of the City Council
and is not controlled by any one standard. However, in making a recommendation to the
City Council, the Planning Commission should consider the following factors in Section 9-5-
060(E)(1) of the DCMC:

        1. Map Amendments:
            a. Whether the proposed amendment is consistent with goals, objectives and
               policies of the city's general plan;
            b. Whether the proposed amendment is harmonious with the overall character
               of existing development in the vicinity of the subject property;
            c. Whether the proposed amendment is consistent with the standards of any
               applicable overlay zone;
            d. The extent to which the proposed amendment may adversely affect adjacent
               property; and
            e. The adequacy of facilities and services intended to serve the subject
               property, including, but not limited to, roadways, parks and recreation
               facilities, police and fire protection, schools, stormwater drainage systems,
               water supplies, and wastewater and refuse collection.

Staff notes that the zoning designation of RA2 is compatible with the subject property’s
current mapped land use designation of Residential Low/Medium Density (Exhibit E). The
uses allowed in the RA1 and RA2 zones are substantially the same with the exception of the
Agricultural business and Animal specialties uses being permitted as conditional uses in the
RA1 zone and are not permitted in the RA2 zone. The use of animals and fowl for
recreation and family food production would become a conditional use under the RA2
zone. Staff also notes that the neighboring properties to the north, east, south and west all
have RA2 Zoning designations (Exhibit F). If the zone change is approved, the applicant has
indicated that they intend to subdivide the subject property for the purpose of developing
as many as four (4) new lots for single family homes.



REVIEWS

Planning Division Review. The Draper City Planning Division has completed their review of
the Zoning Map Amendment submission. Comments from this division, if any, can be
found in Exhibit A.



South Willow                                                           App. # 2024-0340-MA
Zoning Map Amendment Request                  3
Engineering and Public Works Divisions Review. The Draper City Engineering and Public
Works Divisions have completed their reviews of the Zoning Map Amendment submission.
Comments from these divisions, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Building Division Review. The Draper City Building Division has completed their review of
the Zoning Map Amendment submission. Comments from this division, if any, can be
found in Exhibit A.

Fire Division Review. The Draper City Fire Marshal has completed his review of the Zoning
Map Amendment submission. Comments from this division, if any, can be found in Exhibit
A.

Legal Division Review. The Draper City Attorney has completed his review of the Zoning
Map Amendment submission. Comments from this division, if any, can be found in Exhibit
A.

GIS Division Review. The Draper City GIS Division has completed their review of the Zoning
Map Amendment Submission. Comments from this division, if any, can be found in Exhibit
A.

Noticing. Notice has been properly issued in the manner outlined in the City and State
Codes.



STAFF RECOMMENDATION

Staff recommends that the Planning Commission review the request, receive public
comment, and make a recommendation to the City Council based on the findings and
criteria for approval, or denial, as listed within the staff report.



MODEL MOTIONS

Sample Motion for Positive Recommendation – I move that we forward a positive
recommendation to the City Council for approval of the Zoning Map Amendment, as
requested by Brandon Preece of Gilson Engineering, application 2024-0340-MA, based on
the following findings for approval listed in the Staff Report dated December 18, 2024.

Findings for Approval:
   1. The proposed zoning map amendment is consistent with goals, objectives, and
       policies of the city's general plan.
   2. The proposed zoning map amendment is compatible with the subject properties



South Willow                                                          App. # 2024-0340-MA
Zoning Map Amendment Request                 4
       existing Land Use Designation and harmonious with the overall character of existing
       development in the vicinity of the subject property.
    3. The proposed zoning map amendment will not adversely affect adjacent property.
    4. There are adequate facilities and services intended to serve the subject property,
       including, but not limited to, roadways, parks and recreation facilities, police and fire
       protection, schools, stormwater drainage systems, water supplies, and wastewater
       and refuse collection.
    5. (List additional findings for approval, if any…)



Sample Motion for Negative Recommendation – I move that we forward a negative
recommendation to the City Council for denial of the Zoning Map Amendment, as
requested by Brandon Preece of Gilson Engineering, application 2024-0340-MA, based on
the following findings for denial listed in the Staff Report dated December 18, 2024.

Findings for Denial:
   1. The proposed zoning map amendment is not consistent with goals, objectives, and
       policies of the city's general plan.
   2. The proposed zoning map amendment is not compatible with the subject properties
       existing Land Use Designation and is not harmonious with the overall character of
       existing development in the vicinity of the subject property.
   3. The proposed zoning map amendment will adversely affect adjacent property.
   4. There are not adequate facilities and services intended to serve the subject
       property, including, but not limited to, roadways, parks and recreation facilities,
       police and fire protection, schools, stormwater drainage systems, water supplies,
       and wastewater and refuse collection.
   5. (List additional findings for denial, if any…)




South Willow                                                             App. # 2024-0340-MA
Zoning Map Amendment Request                   5
                                      EXHIBIT A
                                 DEPARTMENT REVIEWS

REVIEWS ARE NOT MEANT TO BE AN ALL INCLUSIVE LIST OF POSSIBLE COMMENTS OR
CONDITIONS.

Planning Division Review.
   1. No additional comments.



Engineering and Public Works Divisions Review.
   1. Connectivity with the subject parcel to a public right-of-way is to 13800 South, a
      major collector street. Development of the site will require a local street to provide
      access to the potential future lots. Access onto 13800 South is limited and accesses
      are be required to meet Draper City Standards as outlined in our Master
      Transportation Plan. Any development will need to evaluate access due to the
      reduced spacing from an existing access to 13800 South, where the parcel frontage
      cannot meet current access spacing requirements. An existing access is onsite, but it
      does not meet the requirements for a future subdivision and will require the access
      and local street to meet city standards. Access is evaluated at the time of a site plan
      or subdivision application.

   2. There are existing storm drainage facilities fronting the subject parcel, within 13800
      South. Any future site drainage will be required to be addressed with any
      subdivision or site plan application, and shall comply with the provisions of the
      development requirements within the Draper City Municipal Code.



Building Division Review.
   1. No additional comments.



Fire Division Review.
   1. No additional comments.



Legal Division Review.
   1. No additional comments.



GIS Division Review.
   1. No additional comments.
    EXHIBIT B
LEGAL DESCRIPTION
ALL THAT REAL PROPERTY PER SALT LAKE COUNTY RECORDER ENTRY #1419717535 LOCATED IN
THE SOUTHEAST ¼ OF

SECTION 6, TOWNSHIP 4 SOUTH RANGE 1 EAST, SALT LAKE BASE & MERIDIAN;

SAID PROPERTY IS MORE PARTICULARLY DESCRIBED BY RETRACEMENT SURVEY AS BEGINNING A
POINT LOCATED SOUTH

89°55'02" WEST 1131.37 FEET AND SOUTH 0°05'05" WEST 32.98 FEET FROM THE EAST 1

4 CORNER OF SECTION 6, TOWNSHIP 4

SOUTH RANGE 1 EAST, SALT LAKE BASE & MERIDIAN;

THENCE SOUTH 564.64 FEET COINCIDENT WITH THE RETRACED WESTERLY BOUNDARY OF
JARVIE ESTATES SUBDIVISION

(SALT LAKE COUNTY RECORDER #7945843, PLAT BOOK 2000P PAGE 72) TO THE RETRACED
NORTH LINE OF JARVIE ESTATES

PHASE 2 (SALT LAKE COUNTY RECORDER 1402869, PLAT BOOK 2001P PAGE 240); THENCE ALONG
SAID RETRACED NORTH LINE

NORTH 89°55'00" WEST 190.60 FEET TO THE RETRACED EAST LINE OF SOUTHAM ESTATES (SALT
LAKE COUNTY RECORDER

#7598125, PLAT BOOK 2000P PAGE 72); THENCE ALONG SOUTH RETRACED EAST LINE NORTH
0°05'00 EAST 564.37 FEET;

THENCE EAST 189.77 FEET TO THE POINT OF BEGINNING.

WITH AN AREA OF 107,360 S.F. OR 2.465 ACRES
  EXHIBIT C
VICINITY MAP
 EXHIBIT D
AERIAL MAP
  EXHIBIT E
LAND USE MAP
 EXHIBIT F
ZONING MAP
                  EXHIBIT G
APPLICANT’S RESPONSE – ZONING MAP AMENDMENT
                                                            CONSULTING ENGINEERS AND SURVEYORS
                                                                         12401 South 450 East, Unit C2
                                                                                       (801) 571-9414
                                                                                  Fax: (801) 571-9449
                                                                           www.gilsonengineering.com




October 30, 2024

Draper City Engineering

SUBJECT: South Willow Subdivision Zoning Change

Below is the response to the South Willow Subdivision Zoning Change comments from 10/29/2024

   1. Per Subsection 9-5-060(D)(1)(d) of the DCMC:
          d. If the proposed amendment requires a change in the zoning map, the application shall
             include:
                    1) An accurate property map showing present and proposed zoning
                        classifications;
                    2) All abutting properties showing present zoning classifications

Correction requested:

      Please provide a map that meets the DCMC Zoning Map Amendment criteria listed above.
           o As a helpful tool, an online Draper City Zoning Map can be accessed at the website listed
               below:
           o https://experience.arcgis.com/experience/601a6dd2a14c4739a90f4eac930a9528

Response: Please see attached property map showing present and proposed zoning classifications as
well as all abutting properties and their present zoning classifications.

   2. Per subsection 9-5-060(E)(1)(a) of the DCMC:
          e. Approval Standards: A decision to amend the text of this title or the zoning map is a
              matter committed to the legislative discretion of the city council and is not controlled by
              any one standard. However, in making an amendment, the city council should consider
              the following factors:
                    1) Map Amendments:
                          a. Whether the proposed amendment is consistent with goals, objectives
                              and policies of the city’s general plan;

Correction requested:
       The applicant statements make mention of conforming to the general plan requirements, but
        does not explain how.
       Please provide an explanation as to how the proposed map amendment would be consistent
        with goals, objectives and policies of the city’s general plan.
            o The general plan can be accessed at the following web address:
                https://www.draperutah.gov/media/hsdmxc0k/draper-city-general-
                plan_v2022_202209300937071354.pdf

Response: The proposed zone change would help support Draper City’s goals, objectives and policies in
the following ways:

One of Draper City’s core values is Pride; this zone change would provide more cost effective housing
opportunities to families than the current zoning would. These lots would attract families of all ages
who love Draper and support it’s values to live within the heart of Draper where they can help make a
difference in the community while growing together.

The general plan specifically states under the “Housing & Neighborhoods” section that the goal is to
“Support increased housing density in strategic locations.” The location of South Willow Subdivision
would be perfect for this type of development/zone change due to its unique location amongst RA1,
RA2, R3 and A5 zoning where no one zone is over prevalent, helping to create a uniform balance while
allowing more families to enjoy living in Draper.

Under “Housing”, the general plan outlines various strategies the city plans to implement to be
eligible for certain transportation funding, which is a concern for city officials and residents alike as
the city continues to grow. The proposed zone change would allow for more moderate income
housing, directly supporting strategies A, D, E, F, G, J, L, O, P & X by adding more affordable housing
options for future prospective residents without requiring a major overhaul of infrastructure in the
surrounding areas to accommodate said change.

Lastly, this zoning change would allow for new homes to be build where older existing homes are
currently. This would help refresh the area and inspire nearby neighbors to update their own
residences to improve the look of the community without disrupting the culture of heritage within the
community as none of these existing homes are historically significant to the city.

If there are any questions or concerns on how we addressed these comments or want to see them
addressed differently, please feel free to contact me.

Sincerely,




Tyler Stanich
Project Engineer
                                                                   CONSULTING ENGINEERS AND SURVEYORS
                                                                                12401 South 450 East, Unit C2
                                                                                              (801) 571-9414
                                                                                         Fax: (801) 571-9449
                                                                                  www.gilsonengineering.com
September 26, 2024

Draper City Community & Economic Development
1020 East Pioneer Road,
Draper, UT 84020

SUBJECT: Zoning Project 2024-0340-MA, Review Comment Response

Gilson Engineering is responding to the comments received for the South Willow Project, 2024-0340-MA.

    1. 4. Are facilities and services such as roadways and utilities, sufficient to serve the property under the
       proposed zoning? Explain.

Response: The existing roadways and utilities that are in proximity to the project are sufficient to serve the
proposed project under the newly proposed zoning. The concept of the proposed (4 lot) subdivision will have
one access that services the project off 13800 South as discussed in the Pre-application meeting. All utilities
will also stub through the access road to 13800 South. We are requesting a change from RA1 to RA2. As
discussed in the provided narrative both zones are to facilitate low density development. The RA2 zone is more
consistent to the adjacent parcels. The 13800 South has sufficient facilities to support the proposed zone
change.

    2. Also, for the Owner Affidavit, the listed Registered agent of Vanguard QA LLC is Corporate Counsel
       LLC, with the Representative for Corporate Counsel LLC as Benjamin Nelson. In order to accept this
       Affidavit from Ken Rivera, we will need to see documentation showing that he owns the company or
       has the authority to sign for it.

Response: We have uploaded the Certificate of Organization of Vanguard QA, L.L.C. as part of the response to
these comments.

If there are any questions or concerns regarding the information contained in this application, please feel free to
contact Gilson Engineering.

Sincerely,




Brandon Preece
Senior Project Manager
  EXHIBIT H
PROPERTY MAP
