MEMO
To: City Council
From: Todd Taylor
Date: 2025-05-20
Re: Public Hearing: Ordinance #1651


Comments:

This application is a request for approval of a Zoning Text Amendment to the Draper
Pointe Mixed Use Commercial Special District (CSD-DPMU) zone to add two new districts,
an office/warehouse/limited manufacturing district and a vertical mixed use district, and
development standards related to the new districts. The CSD-DPMU zone includes the
Academy Plaza site, which is approximately 7.7 acres in size, and is located at
approximately 383 W 13490 S. The Academy Plaza site would be designated to allow the
uses identified in the new districts.

The Planning Commission reviewed this item at their April 24, 2025 meeting. They
forwarded a positive recommendation on a vote of 5-0 with the following modifications to
the proposed text:

  1. That the following proposed uses be removed from the permitted uses: Limited
     Manufacturing, General Printing, and Limited Wholesale and Warehousing uses.
  2. That the proposed text and exhibits be modified to not include “limited
     manufacturing” in the name of the new district.

The exhibit included in the proposed ordinance provided to the City Council includes the
changes recommended by the Planning Commission.



Findings for Approval:

  1. The proposed amendment is consistent with goals, objectives and policies of the
     City's General Plan;
  2. The proposed amendment furthers the specific purpose statements of the zoning
     ordinance;
  3. The proposed amendment is appropriate given the context of the request and there
     is sufficient justification for a modification to the zoning ordinance;
  4. The proposed amendment will not create a conflict with any other section or part of
     the zoning ordinance or the General Plan;
  5. The potential effects of the proposed amendment have been evaluated and are
     determined not to be detrimental to public health, safety, or welfare and represents
     an overall community benefit; and
  6. The proposed text amendment implements best current, professional practices of
     urban planning, design, and engineering practices.



Findings for Denial:

  1. The proposed amendment is not consistent with goals, objectives and policies of
     the City's General Plan;
  2. The proposed amendment does not further the specific purpose statement of the
     Draper Pointe Mixed Use Commercial Special District;
  3. The proposed amendment is not appropriate given the context of the request and
     there is not sufficient justification for a modification to the zoning ordinance;
  4. The proposed amendment could create a conflict with another section or part of the
     zoning ordinance or the General Plan;
  5. The potential effects of the proposed amendment have been determined to be
     detrimental to public health, safety, or welfare or do not represent an overall
     community benefit; and
  6. The proposed text amendment is not consistent with best current, professional
     practices of urban planning, design, and engineering practices.


ATTACHMENTS:

Ordinance No. 1651.pdf
ATTACHMENTS:

Academy Plaza TA Staff Report_Finalized.pdf
