MEMO
To: City Council
From: Travis DeJong
Date: 2025-05-20
Re: Public Hearing: Providing Local Consent for an Off-Premises Beer Alcohol Retailer
License for Draper Hotel Holdings LLC dba Homewood Suites.



Comments:

Draper Hotel Holdings LLC dba Homewood Suites located at 473 W 13490 S is seeking
Local Consent for a Off-Premises Beer Retailer Alcohol License.

They have provided the following:
- Sales tax license.
- Background check conducted by the Bureau of Criminal Identification.
- Floor plan showing where alcohol is to be stored and purchased.
- Documentation showing the applicant is lawfully present in the United States.

Draper Hotel Holdings LLC dba Homewood Suites has also applied for and has a current
Draper City commercial business license numbered CBL-0316-2024.

The findings for Local Consent approval are as follows:

DCMC 6-4-040 requires that an off-premises beer outlet be at least three hundred feet
(300') away from any community location (schools, churches, public libraries, public
playgrounds, and public parks) measured by the shortest pedestrian route taken from
the nearest patron entrance of the outlet to the property boundary of the community
location.

Draper Hotel Holdings LLC dba Homewood Suites has met this requirement.

DCMC 6-4-050 limits the number of off-premises alcohol licenses that can be granted by
the City to no more than one license per one thousand (1,000) Draper City residents
based on the latest population estimate provided by the Utah Department of Workforce
Services. The Utah Department of Workforce Services currently estimates Draper City's
population to be 49,602, giving Draper City the ability to grant up to 49 off-premises
alcohol licenses.

Draper City has currently granted a total of twenty-four (24) off-premises alcohol licenses,
meaning twenty-five (25) additional off-premises licenses can be granted.


ATTACHMENTS:

Sales Tax License.pdf
ATTACHMENTS:

Draper Hotel Holdings Off Premises Beer Local Consent PP.pdf
ATTACHMENTS:

Floor Plan
