                              Development Review Committee
                                   1020 East Pioneer Road
                                     Draper, Utah 84020


                                      STAFF REPORT
                                        April 1, 2025

To:                 Draper City Planning Commission
                    Business Date: April 10, 2025

From:               Development Review Committee

Prepared By:        Maryann Pickering, AICP, Planner III
                    Planning Division
                    Community Development Department
                    (801) 576-6391 or maryann.pickering@draperutah.gov

Re:     Lingo – Land Use Map Amendment, Zoning Map Amendment and Development
        Agreement Amendment Requests
        Application Nos.: 2024-0374-MA, 2024-0375-MA and 2024-0405-DA
        Applicant:        Brad Carr, representing Chad England, Kayleen England, Shane
                          Lingo, and Sasha Lingo
        Project Location: Approximately 13040 S. 1300 East
        Current Zoning: RA2 (Residential Agricultural, 20,000 sq. ft. min. lot size)
        Acreage:          Approximately 0.05 acres (approximately 1,970 sq. ft.)
        Request:          Request for approval to: 11) amend the land use designation
                          from Residential Low-Medium Density to Residential Medium-
                          High Density, 2) amend the zoning from RA2 to RM2 (Residential
                          Multiple-Family), and 3) amend an existing development
                          agreement.



SUMMARY AND BACKGROUND
This application is a request for approval of a land use map amendment, zoning map
amendment and development agreement amendment for approximately 0.05 acres
located on the west side of 1300 East, at approximately 13040 S. 1300 East (Exhibits C and
D). The property is currently zoned RA2. The applicant is requesting that the applications
be approved for the purpose of allowing for a boundary line adjustment between




Lingo                                                              Apps. # 2024-0374-MA
Land Use and Zoning Map Amendments                                         2024-0375-MA
and Development Agreement                    1                             2024-0405-DA
neighboring property. The future boundary line adjustment will transfer approximately
1,970 square feet of property from the Englands to the Lingos.

The home located at 13040 S 1300 E was built in 1972 prior to the City’s incorporation. At
the time it was part of a larger parcel located directly east of the subject site. The property
was illegally subdivided on July 6, 1990. The house itself is considered legal as it pre-dates
the city, but the parcel created by the illegal subdivision did not meet lot size, lot width, or
setbacks standards. A development agreement and zone change were approved in 2018
that allowed the City to remove a Notice of Violation recorded against the property. The
2018 rezone brought the parcel into conformance in regards to lot size.

Before the boundary line adjustment can occur, the Land Use Map and Zoning Map
amendments are needed so that the area being transferred will comply with the terms of
both the original and proposed Development Agreements (Exhibits I and J).


ANALYSIS
General Plan and Zoning.

 Table 1                 General Plan and Zoning Designations                         Exhibit
 Existing Land Use       Residential Low-Medium Density                               Exhibit E
 Current Zoning          RA2                                                          Exhibit F
 Proposed Land
                         Residential Medium-High Density
 Use
 Adjacent Zoning
                                 RA1 (Residential Agricultural, 40,000 sq. ft. min.
     East                        lot size)

     West                RA2
     North               RA2
     South               RA1

The Residential Low-Medium Density land use designation is characterized as follows:




Lingo                                                                    Apps. # 2024-0374-MA
Land Use and Zoning Map Amendments                                               2024-0375-MA
and Development Agreement                         2                              2024-0405-DA
According to Draper City Municipal Code (DCMC) Section 9-8-020 the purpose of the RA2
zone is to “foster low density development with little impact on its surroundings and municipal
services; to generally preserve the character of the City’s semi-rural areas; and to promote and
preserve conditions favorable to large-lot family life, including the keeping of limited numbers of
animals and fowl.”

Land Use Map Amendment. The applicant has requested a land use amendment to the
Residential Medium-High Density land use designation (Exhibit G). The proposed
designation is compatible with the requested zoning designation of RM2. The Residential
High Density land use designation is described as follows:




Lingo                                                                    Apps. # 2024-0374-MA
Land Use and Zoning Map Amendments                                               2024-0375-MA
and Development Agreement                        3                               2024-0405-DA
Zoning Map Amendment. The applicant has requested the RM2 zoning designation for the
property (Exhibit H). According to Draper City Municipal Code (DCMC) Section 9-8-020, the
purpose of the RM2 zone is to “permit well designed apartments, townhomes, twin homes, and
condominiums at relatively high densities that are appropriately buffered from and compatible
with surrounding land uses.”

Development Agreement. The proposed Development Agreement (Exhibit I) is intended to
amend the previously approved and recorded development agreement (Exhibit J) and
include all of the property that will be owned by the Lingos after the completion of the
boundary line adjustment under the new agreement. The proposed Development
Agreement effectively mirrors and maintains the principal elements and agreements of the
original Development Agreement, primarily changing only the area that the agreement
covers. As the Englands are not a party to the amendment to the Development Agreement,
the boundary line adjustment should be finalized before the Agreement is signed by the
Lingos.

Criteria for Approval:



Lingo                                                               Apps. # 2024-0374-MA
Land Use and Zoning Map Amendments                                          2024-0375-MA
and Development Agreement                     4                             2024-0405-DA
Land Use Map Amendment:
The Land Use Map amendment request falls under DCMC Section 9-2-020(F) because the
Land Use Map is part of Draper City’s General Plan. That section lists the following criteria
for a General Plan amendment as:

        Plan Amendment: All plan amendments shall be in accordance with Utah Code
        Annotated 10-9a-404, as amended and, unless requested by the city's legislative body,
        shall follow the procedures as outlined in Draper City Municipal Code 9-5-060(D). That
        section is noted as follows:

        D.      Procedure: Zoning text and map amendments shall be considered and
                processed as provided in this subsection:
                1.    A complete application shall be submitted to the office of the Zoning
                      Administrator in a form established by the administrator along with
                      any fee established by the city’s schedule of fees. The application
                      shall include at least the following information:
                      a.      The name, address and telephone number of the applicant
                              and the applicant’s agent, if any.
                      b.      The name and address of every person or company the
                              applicant represents.
                      c.      The requested amendment and reasons supporting the
                              request.
                      d.      If the proposed amendment requires a change in the zoning
                              map, the application shall include:
                              (1)      An accurate property map showing present and
                                       proposed zoning classifications;
                              (2)      All abutting properties showing present zoning
                                       classifications; and
                              (3)      An accurate legal description and an approximate
                                       common address of the area proposed to be rezoned.
                      e.      If the proposed amendment requires a change in the text of
                              this title, the application shall include chapter and section
                              references and a draft of the proposed text.
                2.    After the application is determined to be complete, the zoning
                      administrator shall prepare a staff report evaluating the application.
                3.    The Planning Commission shall schedule and hold a public hearing on
                      the application as provided in sections 9-5-040 and 9-5-045 of this
                      chapter. Following the public meeting, the Planning Commission shall
                      recommend approval, approval with modifications, or denial of the
                      proposed amendment and shall submit its recommendation to the
                      City Council for review and decision.
                4.    The City Council shall schedule and hold a public hearing on the
                      application as provided in sections 9-5-040 and 9-5-045 of this


Lingo                                                                  Apps. # 2024-0374-MA
Land Use and Zoning Map Amendments                                             2024-0375-MA
and Development Agreement                       5                              2024-0405-DA
                        chapter. Following the public hearing, the City Council may approve,
                        approve with modifications, or deny the proposed amendment.

Zoning Map Amendment 9-5-060(E)
A Map Amendment is a matter committed to the legislative discretion of the City Council
and is not controlled by any one standard. However, in making a recommendation to the
City Council, the Planning Commission should consider the following factors in Section 9-5-
060(E) of the DCMC:

1.      Map Amendments:
        a.   Whether the proposed amendment is consistent with goals, objectives and
             policies of the city's general plan;
        b.   Whether the proposed amendment is harmonious with the overall character
             of existing development in the vicinity of the subject property;
        c.   Whether the proposed amendment is consistent with the standards of any
             applicable overlay zone;
        d.   The extent to which the proposed amendment may adversely affect adjacent
             property; and
        e.   The adequacy of facilities and services intended to serve the subject
             property, including, but not limited to, roadways, parks and recreation
             facilities, police and fire protection, schools, stormwater drainage systems,
             water supplies, and wastewater and refuse collection.

Development Agreement
The DCMC does not contain criteria for review and potential approval of a Development
Agreement. It does, however; contain a list of items that are required as part of an
Agreement and limitations to a Development Agreement, as found in DCMC Section 9-5-
200(C) and (D). This section depicts the required materials for such requests as:

C.      Procedure: All development agreements, upon proper execution, shall be recorded
        with the respective County Recorder's Office, shall run with the land, and shall be
        binding on all successors in the ownership of the affected property. A development
        agreement shall contain, at a minimum, the following:
        1.     A legal description of the land subject to the development agreement.
        2.     The restrictions or conditions to be attached to the property including
               development standards and the provision of public facilities.
        3.     The configuration of the project as shown on a project master plan.
        4.     A statement of the benefits and value the development agreement will have
               for the City as a whole, including, but not limited to, assurances of design
               standards, dedication and improvement of open space, parks, trails,
               amenities, or infrastructure such as public rights-of-way or utilities.
        5.     The time frames for performance by the parties.
        6.     A description of the various City approvals required before the


Lingo                                                                Apps. # 2024-0374-MA
Land Use and Zoning Map Amendments                                           2024-0375-MA
and Development Agreement                      6                             2024-0405-DA
               commencement of construction and other procedures that will be required
               after approval of the development agreement.
        7.     Provisions for enforcement of the terms and conditions of the development
               agreement.
        8.     Provisions for making amendments to the development agreement.
        9.     The time limitation of the agreement.
        10.    Such other terms as may be proposed and agreed to between the City and
               developer or subdivider.
D.      Limitations:
        1.     A development agreement under this section may not:
               a.     Limit the City’s authority in the future to:
                      i.      Enact a land use regulation; or
                      ii.     Take any action allowed under Utah Code Annotated Section
                              10-8-84, as amended;
               b.     Require the City to change the zoning designation of an area of land
                      within the City in the future; or
               c.     Contain a term that conflicts with, or is different from, a standard set
                      forth in an existing land use regulation that governs the area subject
                      to the development agreement, unless the City Council approves the
                      development agreement in accordance with the same procedures for
                      enacting a land use regulation under Utah Code Annotated Section
                      10-9a-502, including a review and recommendation from the planning
                      commission and a public hearing.
        2.     The City may not require a development agreement as the only option for
               developing land within the City.
        3.     To the extent that a development agreement does not specifically address a
               matter or concern related to land use or development, the matter or concern
               is governed by;
               a.     Utah Code Annotated 10-9a-530, as amended; and
               b.     Applicable land use regulations of this Title.



REVIEWS
Planning Division Review. The Draper City Planning Division has completed their review of
the Land Use Map Amendment, Zoning Map Amendment and Development Agreement
submissions. Comments from this division, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Engineering and Public Works Divisions Review. The Draper City Engineering and Public
Works Divisions have completed their reviews of the Land Use Map Amendment, Zoning
Map Amendment and Development Agreement submissions. Comments from these
divisions, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Building Division Review. The Draper City Building Division has completed their review of the


Lingo                                                                Apps. # 2024-0374-MA
Land Use and Zoning Map Amendments                                           2024-0375-MA
and Development Agreement                      7                             2024-0405-DA
Land Use Map Amendment, Zoning Map Amendment and Development Agreement
submissions. Comments from this division, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Fire Division Review. The Draper City Fire Marshal has completed his review of the Land Use
Map Amendment, Zoning Map Amendment and Development Agreement submissions.
Comments from this division, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Legal Division Review. The Draper City Attorney has completed his review of the Land Use
Map Amendment, Zoning Map Amendment and Development Agreement submissions.
Comments from this division, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Noticing. Notice has been properly issued in the manner outlined in the City and State
Codes.



STAFF RECOMMENDATION
Staff recommends that the Planning Commission review the requests, receive public
comment, and makes decisions based on the findings listed below and the criteria for
approval, or denial, as listed within the staff report.



MODEL MOTIONS AND FINDINGS
Land Use Map Amendment
Sample Motion for Positive Recommendation – I move that we forward a positive
recommendation to the City Council for the Land Use Map Amendment, as requested by
Chad England for the Lingo Amendments, application 2024-0375-MA, based on the findings
for approval listed in the Staff Report dated April 1, 2025.

Findings for Approval:
1.     The proposed land use map amendment is consistent with goals, objectives, and
       policies of the city's general plan.
2.     The proposed land use map amendment is harmonious with the overall character
       of existing development in the vicinity of the subject property.
3.     The proposed land use map amendment will not adversely affect adjacent property.
4.     There are adequate facilities and services intended to serve the subject property,
       including, but not limited to, roadways, parks and recreation facilities, police and fire
       protection, schools, stormwater drainage systems, water supplies, and wastewater
       and refuse collection.
5.     The proposed land use map amendment complies with DCMC Section 9-2-020(F).
6.     The legislative body may adopt any amendment to the general plan land use map
       that the legislative body considers appropriate.




Lingo                                                                 Apps. # 2024-0374-MA
Land Use and Zoning Map Amendments                                            2024-0375-MA
and Development Agreement                      8                              2024-0405-DA
Sample Motion for Modified Positive Recommendation – I move that we forward a positive
recommendation to the City Council for the Land Use Map Amendment, as requested by
Chad England for the Lingo Amendments, application 2024-0375-MA, based on the findings
for approval listed in the Staff Report dated April 1, 2025 and as modified by additional
findings as follows:

1.      (List additional findings for approval…)

Sample Motion for Negative Recommendation – I move that we forward a negative
recommendation to the City Council for the Land Use Map Amendment, as requested by
Chad England for the Lingo Amendments, application 2024-0375-MA, based on the findings
for denial listed in the Staff Report dated April 1, 2025.

Findings for Denial:
1.     The proposed land use map amendment is not consistent with goals, objectives,
       and policies of the city's general plan.
2.     The proposed land use map amendment is not harmonious with the overall
       character of existing development in the vicinity of the subject property.
3.     The proposed land use map amendment will adversely affect adjacent property.
4.     There are not adequate facilities and services intended to serve the subject
       property, including, but not limited to, roadways, parks and recreation facilities,
       police and fire protection, schools, stormwater drainage systems, water supplies,
       and wastewater and refuse collection.
5.     The legislative body may reject any amendment to the general plan land use map
       that the legislative body considers appropriate.

Zoning Map Amendment
Sample Motion for Positive Recommendation – I move that we forward a positive
recommendation to the City Council for the Zoning Map Amendment, as requested by
Chad England for the Lingo Amendments, application 2024-0374-MA, based on the findings
for approval listed in the Staff Report dated April 1, 2025.

Findings for Approval:
1.     The proposed zoning map amendment is consistent with goals, objectives, and
       policies of the city's general plan.
2.     The proposed zoning map amendment is harmonious with the overall character of
       existing development in the vicinity of the subject property.
3.     The proposed zoning map amendment is consistent with the standards of any
       applicable overlay zone.
4.     The proposed zoning map amendment will not adversely affect adjacent property.
5.     There are adequate facilities and services intended to serve the subject property,
       including, but not limited to, roadways, parks and recreation facilities, police and fire




Lingo                                                                 Apps. # 2024-0374-MA
Land Use and Zoning Map Amendments                                            2024-0375-MA
and Development Agreement                      9                              2024-0405-DA
        protection, schools, stormwater drainage systems, water supplies, and wastewater
        and refuse collection.

Sample Motion for Modified Positive Recommendation – I move that we forward a positive
recommendation to the City Council for the Zoning Map Amendment, as requested by
Chad England for the Lingo Amendments, application 2024-0374-MA, based on the findings
for approval listed in the Staff Report dated April 1, 2025 and as modified by additional
findings as follows:

1.      (List additional findings for approval…)

Sample Motion for Negative Recommendation – I move that we forward a negative
recommendation to the City Council for the Zoning Map Amendment, as requested by
Chad England for the Lingo Amendments, application 2024-0374-MA, based on the findings
for denial listed in the Staff Report dated April 1, 2025.

Findings for Denial:
1.     The proposed zoning map amendment is not consistent with goals, objectives, and
       policies of the city's general plan.
2.     The proposed zoning map amendment is not harmonious with the overall character
       of existing development in the vicinity of the subject property.
3.     The proposed zoning map amendment will adversely affect adjacent property.
4.     There are not adequate facilities and services intended to serve the subject
       property, including, but not limited to, roadways, parks and recreation facilities,
       police and fire protection, schools, stormwater drainage systems, water supplies,
       and wastewater and refuse collection.

Development Agreement
Sample Motion for Positive Recommendation – I move that we forward a positive
recommendation to the City Council for the Development Agreement, as requested by
Chad England for the Lingo Amendments, application 2024-0405-DA, based on the findings
for approval listed in the Staff Report dated April 1, 2025.

Findings for Approval:
1.     The proposed development agreement complies DCMC Section 9-5-200(C) and (D).

Sample Motion for Modified Positive Recommendation – I move that we forward a positive
recommendation to the City Council for the Development Agreement, as requested by
Chad England for the Lingo Amendments, application 2024-0405-DA, based on the findings
for approval listed in the Staff Report dated April 1, 2025 and as modified by the additional
findings and specific recommendations as follows:

1.      (List additional findings for approval…)


Lingo                                                               Apps. # 2024-0374-MA
Land Use and Zoning Map Amendments                                          2024-0375-MA
and Development Agreement                      10                           2024-0405-DA
2.      List any specific recommendations…

Sample Motion for Negative Recommendation – I move that we forward a negative
recommendation to the City Council for the Development Agreement, as requested by
Chad England for the Lingo Amendments, application 2024-0405-DA, based on the findings
for denial listed in the Staff Report dated April 1, 2025.

Findings for Denial:
1.     The proposed development agreement does not comply with DCMC Section 9-5-
       200(C) and (D).




Lingo                                                          Apps. # 2024-0374-MA
Land Use and Zoning Map Amendments                                     2024-0375-MA
and Development Agreement                    11                        2024-0405-DA
                                      EXHIBIT A
                                 DEPARTMENT REVIEWS

REVIEWS ARE NOT MEANT TO BE AN ALL INCLUSIVE LIST OF POSSIBLE COMMENTS OR
CONDITIONS.

Planning Division Review.
No additional comments.

Building Division Review.
No additional comments.

Engineering and Public Works Divisions Review.
No additional comments.

Fire Division Review.
No additional comments.
                                  EXHIBIT B
                             LEGAL DESCRIPTIONS

LAND USE MAP AND ZONING MAP (Description to be updated)
BEGINNING AT A POINT WHICH IS 442.18 FEET SOUTH 00 DEGREES 21' 02" EAST AND
404.20 FEET NORTH 89 DEGREES 20' 04" WEST FROM THE EAST QUARTER CORNER OF
SECTION 32, TOWNSHIP 3 SOUTH, RANGE 1 EAST, SALT LAKE BASE AND MERIDIAN AND
RUNNING THENCE SOUTH 89 DEGREES 52'42" EAST 50.22 FEET; THENCE SOUTH 00
DEGREES 28'20" WEST 42.74 FEET; THENCE NORTH 89 DEGREES 24'22" WEST 42.88 FEET,
THENCE NORTH 9 DEGREES 37’05” WEST 43.27 FEET TO THE POINT OF BEGINNING.




DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT
A TRACT OF LAND BEING SITUATE IN THE SOUTHEAST QUARTER OF SECTION 32,
TOWNSHIP 3 SOUTH, RANGE 1 EAST, SALT LAKE BASE AND MERIDIAN, HAVING A BASIS OF
BEARINGS OF SOUTH 00°21'02" EAST BETWEEN THE EAST QUARTER AND THE SOUTHEAST
CORNER OF SAID SECTION, SAID TRACT OF LAND BEING MORE PARTICULARLY DESCRIBED
AS FOLLOWS: BEGINNING AT A POINT WHICH IS SOUTH 00°21'02" WEST ALONG THE
SECTION LINE A DISTANCE OF 325.22 FEET AND NORTH 89°20'04" WEST 355.82 FEET FROM
THE EAST QUARTER OF SAID SECTION 32, AND RUNNING THENCE SOUTH 00°28'20" WEST
159.44 FEET; THENCE NORTH 89°24'22" WEST 42.88 FEET; THENCE NORTH 09°37'05" WEST
43.27 FEET; THENCE NORTH 02°24'04" EAST 116.97 FEET TO THE SOUTH LINE OF SNOW
CREST SUBDIVISION, ON FILE WITH THE OFFICE OF THE OFFICE OF THE SALT LAKE COUNTY
RECORDER IN BOOK 2015P, AT PAGE 271 OF PLATS; THENCE SOUTH 89°20'04" EAST
ALONG SAID LINE AND A PROLONGATION THEREOF A DISTANCE OF 46.53 FEET TO THE
POINT OF BEGINNING.

CONTAINS 7,656 SQUARE FEET OR 0.176 ACRES, MORE OR LESS.
  EXHIBIT C
VICINITY MAP
 EXHIBIT D
AERIAL MAP
  EXHIBIT E
LAND USE MAP
 EXHIBIT F
ZONING MAP
                   EXHIBIT G
APPLICANT’S RESPONSE – LAND USE MAP AMENDMENT
    1. What is the requested land use designation?

We are requesting a change from Residential Low/Medium Density to Residential Medium/High Density.

    2. Please explain the reason for the request and the justification for approval.

The reason for the request is because the neighboring parcel is conveying a portion of its area to the
subject parcel. While this actually increases the size of the subject parcel, the subject parcel is still too
small for the current designation. There was already a master development agreement that is tied to the
subject parcel. We just need an updated agreement attached to the new, larger parcel. This actually, just
makes the subject parcel more in line with the zoning goals of the city.

    3. How is the requested land use designation harmonious with the overall character of existing
       development in the vicinity of the subject property? Explain?

It will remain a single family residence, just like the neighboring parcels. The home was built prior to the
zoning restrictions and already received a variance. This change is actually beneficial to the city because
it increases the size of the subject parcel while still ensuring the grantor parcel is in compliance.

    4. Is the proposed land use designation consistent with the goals, objectives, and policies of the
       City’s General Plan?

Yes. The goal is to ensure adequate lot sizing in the area and minimize high-density housing in the area.
This change actually increases the current size of the subject parcel. While the increase does not fully
bring it in compliance, it brings it closer in size to the objectives of this area.
                  EXHIBIT H
APPLICANT’S RESPONSE – ZONING MAP AMENDMENT
1. What is the requested zoning designation?

    The original parcel is already zone RM2. The parcel being added is zoned RA2. This seeks to
    rezone the full new parcel to RM2.

2. Please explain the reason for the request and the justification for approval.

    The reason for the request is because the neighboring parcel is conveying a portion of its area to
    the subject parcel. While this actually increases the size of the subject parcel, the subject parcel
    is still too small for the current designation. There was already a master development agreement
    that is tied to the subject parcel. We just need an updated agreement attached to the new,
    larger parcel. This actually, just makes the subject parcel more in line with the zoning goals of the
    city.



3. How is the requested zoning designation harmonious with the overall character of existing
   development in the vicinity of the subject property? Explain.

    It will remain a single-family residence, just like the neighboring parcels. The home was built
    prior to the zoning restrictions and already received a variance. This change is actually beneficial
    to the city because it increases the size of the subject parcel while still ensuring the grantor
    parcel is in compliance.

4. Are facilities and services, such as roadways and utilities, sufficient to serve the property under
   the proposed zoning? Explain.

    Yes. There is already a single-family residence. That residence will remain fundamentally
    unchanged and no new facilities, services, roadways or utilities will be needed.

5. Is the proposed zoning designation consistent with the goals, objectives, and policies of the
   City’s General Plan? Explain.

    Yes. The goal is to ensure adequate lot sizing in the area and minimize high-density housing in
    the area. This change actually increases the current size of the subject parcel. While the increase
    does not fully bring it in compliance, it brings it closer in size to the objectives of this area.
            EXHIBIT I
PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT
MASTER DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT
             FOR
LINGO DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT




          April 1, 2025




                               Page 1 of 29
WHEN RECORDED, RETURN TO:


Nicole Smedley
Draper CityRecorder
1020 E Pioneer Rd.
Draper, UT 84020

Affecting Tax Parcel No: 28-32-426-031

                         MASTER DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT
                                      FOR
                         LINGO DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT

       THIS MASTER DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT is made and entered into as of the ___

day of __________, 2025, by and between Draper City (“the City”), a Utah municipality and

Shane Lingo and Sasha Marie Lingo (“Master Developer”), natural persons.

                                           RECITALS

       A. The capitalized terms used in this MDA and in these Recitals are defined in Section

1.2, below.

       B. Master Developer owns a home on the subject parcel, which was built in 1972, before

the City was incorporated, and is seeking to adjust the boundary lines of his property located at

13040 South 1300 East (Tax Parcel 28-32-426-031), currently totaling approximately .13 acres.

With the boundary line adjustment, the parcel size will increase to approximately .176 acres. The

subject parcel is already subject to a Development Agreement (Coster Development Agreement),

recorded as entry number 12758252 (“Original Development Agreement”). The Original

Development Agreement rezoned the subject parcel from RA2 to RM2.

       C. The adjacent parcel has agreed to convey approximately .046 acres to the subject

parcel, slightly increasing the size of the subject parcel while the conveying parcel remains large

enough to be compliant as RA2 property
                                                                                          Page 2 of 29
       D. This MDA is intended to rezone the area from RA2 to RM2 that was outside the subject

parcel boundary lines at the time of Original Development Agreement and is being conveyed to

Master Developer and merged with the subject parcel.

       E. Master Developer and the City desire that the Property be developed in a unified and

consistent fashion pursuant to the Master Plan.

       F. The Parties acknowledge that development of the Property pursuant to this MDA will

result in significant planning and economic benefits to the City and its residents including, amount

other things (1) this actually increases the lot size from the original Development Agreement

without creating a requirement on the conveying parcel to re-zone. (2) In the event of a disaster,

the home could be repaired/rebuilt rather than left abandoned to deteriorate. (3) There was, prior

to the Original Development Agreement, a longstanding issue with the parcel size not meeting the

area requirements. This MDA will ensure that the property is not illegally subdivided. (4) The

neighborhood in which the subject parcel is located is made up of single family detached dwellings.

The subject parcel will remain a single family, detached dwelling and will not adversely affect the

neighboring community.

       G. As consideration for this MDA, Master Developer is guaranteeing that no multi-family

housing will be built, even though he will be obtaining a multi-family zoning district. The property

will consist of only one single-family detached dwelling.

       H. The Parties desire to enter into this MDA to specify the rights and responsibilities of

the Master Developer to develop the Property as expressed in this MDA and the rights and

responsibilities of the City to allow and regulate such development pursuant to the requirements

of this MDA.

       I. The Parties understand and intend that this MDA is a “development agreement” within
                                                                                           Page 3 of 29
the meaning of, and entered into pursuant to the terms of Utah Code Ann. §10-9a-101 (2018) et

seq.

       J. This MDA is required by the Zoning.

       K. This MDA conforms with the intent of the City’s General Plan and the Zoning.

       NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the mutual covenants contained herein, and

other good and valuable consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of which is hereby

acknowledged, the City and Master Developer hereby agree to the following:

                                            TERMS

   1. Incorporation of Recitals and Exhibits/ Definitions.

       1.1. Incorporation. The foregoing Recitals and Exhibit A are hereby incorporated into

       this MDA.

       1.2. Definitions. As used in this MDA, the words and phrases specified below shall have

       the following meanings:

           1.2.1. Act means the Land Use, Development, and Management Act, Utah Code Ann.

           § 10-9a-101 (2018), et seq.

           1.2.2. Administrator means the person designated by the City as the Administrator

           of this MDA.

           1.2.3. Applicant means a person or entity submitting a Development Application.

           1.2.4. Buildout means the completion of all of the development on the entire Project

           in accordance with the approved plans.

           1.2.5. City means Draper City, a Utah municipality.




                                                                                        Page 4 of 29
1.2.6. City Consultants means those outside consultants employed by the City in

various specialized disciplines such as traffic, hydrology or drainage for reviewing

certain aspects of the development of the Project.

1.2.7. City’s Future Laws means the ordinances, policies, standards, and procedures

which may be in effect as of a particular time in the future when a Development

Application is submitted for a part of the Project and which may or may not be

applicable to the Development Application depending upon the provisions of this

MDA.

1.2.8. City’s Vested Laws means the ordinances, policies, standards and procedures

of the City in effect as of the date of this MDA, a digital copy of which is attached as

Exhibit “C”.

1.2.9. Council means the elected City Council of the City.

1.2.10. Default means a material breach of this MDA as specified herein.

1.2.11. Denied means a formal denial issued by the final decision-making body of the

City for a particular type of Development Application but does not include review

comments or “redlines” by City staff.

1.2.12. Development means the development of a portion of the Property pursuant to

an approved Development Application.

1.2.13. Development Application means an application to the City for development

of a portion of the Project including a Subdivision or any other permit, certificate or

other authorization from the City required for development of the Project.

1.2.14. Development Report means a report containing the information specified in

Section 2.4.
                                                                                Page 5 of 29
1.2.15. Final Plat means the recordable map or other graphical representation of land

prepared in accordance with Utah Code Ann. § 10-9a-603 (2021), or any successor

provision, and approved by the City, effectuating a Subdivision of any portion of the

Project.

1.2.16. Master Developer means Shane Lingo, and its assignees or transferees as

permitted by this MDA.

1.2.17. Master Plan means the conceptual layout for Residential Dwelling Units and

Public Infrastructure for the Project

1.2.18. Maximum Residential Units means the development on the Property of only

one, single family Residential Dwelling Units

1.2.19. MDA means this Master Development Agreement including all of its

Exhibits.

1.2.20. Notice means any notice to or from any Party to this MDA that is either

required or permitted to be given to another party.

1.2.21. Open Space shall have the meaning specified in Section 9-3-040 of the City’s

Vested Laws.

1.2.22. Outsourc[e][ing] means the process of the City contracting with City

Consultants or paying overtime to City employees to provide technical support in the

review and approval of the various aspects of a Development Application as is more

fully set out in this MDA.

1.2.23. Parcel means a portion of the Property that is created by the Master

Developer to be sold to a Subdeveloper as a Subdivision that is not an individually

developable lot as specified in Section 5.9.
                                                                               Page 6 of 29
1.2.24. Party/Parties means, in the singular, Master Developer or the City; in the

plural Master Developer and the City.

1.2.25. Planning Commission means the City’s Planning Commission.

1.2.26. Project means the total development to be constructed on the Property

pursuant to this MDA with the associated public and private facilities, and all of the

other aspects approved as part of this MDA.

1.2.27. Property means the real property owned by and to be developed by Master

Developer more fully described in Exhibit "A".

1.2.28. Public Infrastructure means those elements of infrastructure that are planned

to be dedicated to the City as a condition of the approval of a Development

Application.

1.2.29. Residential Dwelling Unit means a structure or portion thereof designed and

intended for use as a single-family residences and attached residences commonly

referred to as townhomes as illustrated on the Master Plan.

1.2.30. Subdeveloper means a person or an entity not “related” (as defined by

Section 165 of the Internal Revenue Code) to Master Developer which purchases a

Parcel for development.

1.2.31. Subdivision means the division of any portion of the Project into developable

lots pursuant to State Law and/or the Zoning Ordinance.

1.2.32. Subdivision Application means the application to create a Subdivision.

1.2.33. Zoning means the zone for the Property adopted by the City on November 7,

2024.


                                                                               Page 7 of 29
       1.2.34. Zoning Ordinance means the City’s Land Use and Development Ordinance

       adopted pursuant to the Act that was in effect as of the date of this MDA as a part of

       the City’s Vested Laws.

2. Development of the Project.

   2.1. Compliance with the Master Plan and this MDA. Development of the Project

   shall be in accordance with the City’s Vested Laws, the City’s Future Laws (to the extent

   that these are applicable as otherwise specified in this MDA), the Master Plan and this

   MDA.

   2.2. Maximum Residential Units. Only one dwelling unit shall be permitted.

   2.3. Limitation and No Guarantee. Master Developer acknowledges that the

   development of the Maximum Residential Units and every other aspect of the Master

   Plan requires that each Development Application comply with the City’s Vested Laws

   including, without limitation, the City’s geologic hazards requirements. The City’s entry

   into this MDA does not guarantee that the Master Developer will be able to construct the

   Maximum Residential Units or any other aspect of the Project until and unless all the

   applicable requirements of the City’s Vested Laws are complied with.

   2.4. Accounting for Residential Units for Parcels Sold to Subdevelopers. Any Parcel

   sold by Master Developer to a Subdeveloper shall include the transfer of a specified

   portion of the Maximum Residential Units sold with the Parcel.

3. Vested Rights.

   3.1. Vested Rights Granted by Approval of this MDA. To the maximum extent

   permissible under the laws of Utah and the United States and at equity, the Parties intend

                                                                                      Page 8 of 29
that this MDA grants Master Developer all rights to develop the Project in fulfillment of

this MDA, the City’s Vested Laws, the Zoning and the Master Plan except as specifically

provided herein. The Parties specifically intend that this MDA grant to Master Developer

“vested rights” as that term is construed in Utah’s common law and pursuant to Utah

Code Ann. § 10-9a-509 (2018).

3.2. Exceptions. The restrictions on the applicability of the City’s Future Laws to the

Project as specified in Section 3.1 are subject to only the following exceptions:

   3.2.1. Master Developer Agreement. City’s Future Laws that Master Developer

   agrees in writing to the application thereof to the Project;

   3.2.2. State and Federal Compliance. City’s Future Laws which are generally

   applicable to all properties in the City and which are required to comply with State

   and Federal laws and regulations affecting the Project;

   3.2.3. Codes. Any City’s Future Laws that are updates or amendments to existing

   building, plumbing, mechanical, electrical, dangerous buildings, drainage, fire, or

   similar construction or safety related codes, such as the International Building Code,

   the APWA Specifications, AAHSTO Standards, the Manual of Uniform Traffic

   Control Devices or similar standards that are generated by a nationally or statewide

   recognized construction/safety organization, or by the State or Federal governments

   and are required to meet legitimate concerns related to public health, safety or

   welfare;

   3.2.4. Taxes. Taxes, or modifications thereto, so long as such taxes are lawfully

   imposed and charged uniformly by the City to all properties, applications, persons

   and entities similarly situated;
                                                                                    Page 9 of 29
           3.2.5. Fees. Changes to the amounts of fees for the processing of Development

           Applications that are generally applicable to all development within the City (or a

           portion of the City as specified in the lawfully adopted fee schedule) and which are

           adopted pursuant to State law;

           3.2.6. Impact Fees. Impact Fees or modifications thereto which are lawfully adopted,

           and imposed by the City and which meet all requirements of the U. S. Constitution,

           Utah Constitution, law and applicable statutes, including but not limited to Utah Code

           Ann. Section 11-36a-101 (2018) et seq.;

           3.2.7. Planning and Zoning Modification. Changes by the City to its planning

           principles and design standards such as architectural or design requirements, setbacks

           or similar items so long as such changes do not work to reduce the Maximum

           Residential Units, are generally applicable across the entire City and do not materially

           and unreasonably increase the costs of any Development; or

           3.2.8. Compelling, Countervailing Interest. Laws, rules or regulations that the City’s

           land use authority finds, on the record, are necessary to avoid jeopardizing a

           compelling, countervailing public interest pursuant to Utah Code Ann. § 10-9a-

           509(1)(a)(i) (2018).

   4. Term of Agreement. The effective date of this MDA shall be ________________. This

MDA shall expire ten years from its effective date.

   5. Processing of Development Applications.

       5.1. Outsourcing of Processing of Development Applications. Within twenty-one (21)

       calendar days after receipt of a Development Application and upon the request of

       Applicant the City and Applicant will confer to determine whether the City desires to
                                                                                            Page 10 of 29
Outsource the review of any aspect of the Development Application to ensure that it is

processed on a timely basis. If the City determines that Outsourcing is necessary to

ensure the timely processing of the Development Application then the City shall

promptly estimate the reasonably anticipated differential cost of Outsourcing in good

faith consultation with the Applicant (either overtime to City employees or the hiring of a

City Consultant). If Applicant notifies the City that it desires to proceed with the

Outsourcing based on the City’s estimate of costs then Applicant shall deposit in advance

with the City the estimated differential cost and the City shall then promptly proceed with

having the work Outsourced. Upon completion of the Outsourcing services and the

provision by the City of an invoice (with such reasonable supporting documentation as

may be requested by Applicant) for the actual differential cost (whether by way of paying

a City Consultant or paying overtime to City employees) of Outsourcing, Applicant shall,

within thirty (30) calendar days pay or receive credit (as the case may be) for any

difference between the estimated differential cost deposited for the Outsourcing and the

actual cost differential.

5.2. Acceptance of Certifications Required for Development Applications. Any

Development Application requiring the signature, endorsement, or certification and/or

stamping by a person holding a license or professional certification required by the State

of Utah in a particular discipline shall be so signed, endorsed, certified or stamped

signifying that the contents of the Development Application comply with the applicable

regulatory standards of the City. The City should endeavor to make all of its redlines,

comments or suggestions at the time of the first review of the Development Application

unless any changes to the Development Application raise new issues that need to be
                                                                                   Page 11 of 29
addressed.

5.3. Independent Technical Analyses for Development Applications. If the City

needs technical expertise beyond the City’s internal resources to determine impacts of a

Development Application such as for structures, bridges, water tanks, and other similar

matters which are not required by the City’s Vested Laws to be certified by such experts

as part of a Development Application, the City may engage such experts as City

Consultants with the actual and reasonable costs being the responsibility of Applicant.

The City Consultant undertaking any review by the City required or permitted by this

MDA shall be selected from a list generated by the City for each such City review

pursuant to a “request for proposal” process or as otherwise allowed by City ordinances

or regulations. Applicant may, in its sole discretion, strike from the list of qualified

proposers any of such proposed consultants so long as at least three (3) qualified

proposers remain for selection. The anticipated cost and timeliness of such review may

be a factor in choosing the expert. The actual and reasonable costs being the

responsibility of Applicant.

5.4. City Denial of a Development Application. If the City denies a Development

Application the City shall provide a written determination advising the Applicant of the

reasons for denial including specifying the reasons the City believes that the

Development Application is not consistent with this MDA, the Zoning and/or the City’s

Vested Laws (or, if applicable, the City’s Future Laws).

5.5. Meet and Confer regarding Development Application Denials. The City and

Applicant shall meet within twenty-one (21) calendar days of any Denial to resolve the

issues specified in the Denial of a Development Application.
                                                                                     Page 12 of 29
5.6. City Denials of Development Applications Based on Denials from Non-City

Agencies. If the City’s denial of a Development Application is based on the denial of the

Development Application by a Non-City Agency, Applicant shall appeal any such denial

through the appropriate procedures for such a decision and not through the processes

specified below.

5.7. Mediation of Development Application Denials.

   5.7.1. Issues Subject to Mediation. Issues resulting from the City’s Denial of a

   Development Application that the parties are not able to resolve by “Meet and

   Confer” shall be mediated.

   5.7.2. Mediation Process. If the City and Applicant are unable to resolve a

   disagreement subject to mediation, the parties shall attempt within fifteen (15)

   calendar days to appoint a mutually acceptable mediator with knowledge of the legal

   issue in dispute. If the City and Applicant are unable to agree on a single acceptable

   mediator they shall each, within fifteen (15) calendar days, appoint their own

   representative. These two representatives shall, between them, choose the single

   mediator. Applicant and the City shall split the fees of the chosen mediator, each

   Party paying 50% of the fees. The chosen mediator shall within fifteen (15) calendar

   days, review the positions of the parties regarding the mediation issue and promptly

   attempt to mediate the issue between the parties. If the parties are unable to reach

   agreement, the mediator shall notify the parties in writing of the ordinance that the

   mediator deems appropriate. The mediator's opinion shall not be binding on the

   parties.

5.8. Arbitration of Development Application Objections.
                                                                                  Page 13 of 29
   5.8.1. Arbitration Process. If the City and Applicant are unable to resolve an issue

   through mediation, the parties may then attempt within fifteen (15) calendar days to

   appoint a mutually acceptable arbitrator with knowledge of the legal issue in dispute.

   If the parties are unable to agree on a single acceptable arbitrator they shall each,

   within fifteen (15) calendar days, each Party shall appoint their own individual

   appropriate expert. These two experts shall, between them, choose the single

   arbitrator. Applicant and the City shall split the fees of the chosen arbitrator, each

   Party paying 50% of the fees. The chosen arbitrator shall within fifteen (15) calendar

   days, review the positions of the parties regarding the arbitration issue and render a

   decision. The arbitrator shall ask the prevailing party to draft a proposed order for

   consideration and objection by the other side. Upon adoption by the arbitrator, and

   consideration of such objections, the arbitrator's decision shall be final and binding

   upon both parties. If the arbitrator determines as a part of the decision that the City’s

   or Applicant’s position was not only incorrect but was also maintained unreasonably

   and not in good faith then the arbitrator may order the City or Applicant to pay the

   arbitrator’s fees.

5.9. Parcel Sales. The City acknowledges that the precise location and details of the

public improvements, lot layout and design and any other similar item regarding the

development of a particular Parcel may not be known at the time of the creation of or sale

of a Parcel. Master Developer may obtain approval of a Subdivision as is provided in

Utah Code Ann., Section 10-9a-103(66) (2024) that does not create any individually

developable lots in the Parcel without being subject to any requirement in the City’s

Vested Laws to complete or provide security for any Public Infrastructure at the time of
                                                                                    Page 14 of 29
       such subdivision. The responsibility for completing and providing security for

       completion of any Public Infrastructure in the Parcel shall be that of the Master

       Developer or a Subdeveloper upon a subsequent re-Subdivision of the Parcel that creates

       individually developable lots. However, construction of improvements shall not be

       allowed until the Master Developer or Subdeveloper complies with the City’s Vested

       Laws.

   6. Application Under City’s Future Laws. Without waiving any rights granted by this

MDA, Master Developer may at any time, choose to submit a Development Application for all

or part of the Project under the City’s Future Laws in effect at the time of the Development

Application so long as Master Developer is not in current breach of this Agreement.

   7. Public Infrastructure.

       7.1. Construction by and Master Developer. Master Developer shall have the right and

       the obligation to construct or cause to be constructed and installed all Public

       Infrastructure reasonably and lawfully required as a condition of approval of the

       Development Application pursuant to the City’s Vested Laws.

       7.2. Bonding. If and to the extent required by the City's Vested Laws, unless otherwise

       provided by Chapter 10-9a of the Utah Code as amended, security for any Public or

       private Infrastructure—is required by the City Applicant shall provide it in a form

       acceptable to the City as specified in the City's Vested Laws. Partial releases of any such

       required security shall be made as work progresses based on the City's Vested Laws.

   8. Upsizing/Reimbursements to Master Developer.

       8.1. "Upsizing". The City shall not require Master Developer to “upsize” any future

       Public Infrastructure (i.e., to construct the infrastructure to a size larger than required to
                                                                                             Page 15 of 29
   service the Project) unless financial arrangements reasonably acceptable to Master

   Developer are made to compensate Master Developer for the incremental or additive

   costs of such upsizing. For example, if an upsizing to a water pipe size increases costs by

   10% but adds 50% more capacity, the City shall only be responsible to compensate

   Master Developer for the 10% cost increase. An acceptable financial arrangement for

   upsizing of improvements means reimbursement agreements, payback agreements, and

   impact fee credits and reimbursements.

9. Default.

   9.1. Notice. If Master Developer or a Subdeveloper or the City fails to perform their

   respective obligations hereunder or to comply with the terms hereof, the Party believing

   that a Default has occurred shall provide Notice to the other Party. If the City believes

   that the Default has been committed by a Subdeveloper then the City shall also provide a

   courtesy copy of the Notice to Master Developer.

   9.2. Contents of the Notice of Default. The Notice of Default shall:

       9.2.1. Specific Claim. Specify the claimed event of Default;

       9.2.2. Applicable Provisions. Identify with particularity the provisions of any

       applicable law, rule, regulation or provision of this MDA that is claimed to be in

       Default;

       9.2.3. Materiality. Identify why the Default is claimed to be material; and

       9.2.4. Optional Cure. If the City chooses, in its discretion, it may propose a method

       and time for curing the Default which shall be of no less than thirty (30) calendar

       days duration.

   9.3. Meet and Confer, Mediation, Arbitration. Upon the issuance of a Notice of
                                                                                     Page 16 of 29
Default the parties shall engage in the “Meet and Confer” and “Mediation” processes

specified in Sections 5.5 and 5.7. If the claimed Default is subject to Arbitration as

provided in Section 5.8 then the parties shall follow such processes.

9.4. Remedies. If the parties are not able to resolve the Default by “Meet and Confer” or

by “Mediation”, and if the Default is not subject to arbitration then the parties may have

the following remedies, except as specifically limited in 9.9:

   9.4.1. Law and Equity. All rights and remedies available at law and in equity,

   including, but not limited to, injunctive relief and/or specific performance.

   9.4.2. Security. The right to draw on any security posted or provided in connection

   with the Project and relating to remedying of the particular Default.

   9.4.3. Future Approvals. The right to withhold all further reviews, approvals,

   licenses, building permits and/or other permits for development of the Project in the

   case of a default by Master Developer, or in the case of a default by a Subdeveloper,

   development of those Parcels owned by the Subdeveloper until the Default has been

   cured.

9.5. Public Meeting. Before any remedy in Section 9.4 may be imposed by the City the

party allegedly in Default shall be afforded the right to attend a public meeting before the

City Council and address the City Council regarding the claimed Default.

9.6. Emergency Defaults. Anything in this MDA notwithstanding, if the City Council

finds on the record that a default materially impairs a compelling, countervailing interest

of the City and that any delays in imposing such a default would also impair a

compelling, countervailing interest of the City then the City may impose the remedies of

Section 9.4 without the requirements of Sections 9.5. The City shall give Notice to
                                                                                   Page 17 of 29
       Master Developer and/or any applicable Subdeveloper of any public meeting at which an

       emergency default is to be considered and the Master Developer and/or any applicable

       Subdeveloper shall be allowed to address the City Council at that meeting regarding the

       claimed emergency Default.

       9.7. Extended Cure Period. If any Default cannot be reasonably cured within thirty (30)

       calendar days then such cure period shall be extended so long as the defaulting party is

       pursuing a cure with reasonable diligence.

       9.8. Default of Assignee. A default of any obligations assumed by an assignee shall not

       be deemed a default of Master Developer.

       9.9. Limitation on Recovery for Default – No Damages. Anything in this MDA

       notwithstanding no Party shall be entitled to any claim for any monetary damages as a

       result of any breach of this MDA and each Party waives any claims thereto. The sole

       remedy available to Master Developer or any Subdeveloper shall be that of specific

       performance.

   10. Notices. All notices required or permitted under this MDA shall, in addition to any other

means of transmission, be given in writing by certified mail and regular mail to the following

address:

   To the Master Developer:

   NAME Brad Carr
   COMPANY Carr Woodall
   MAILING ADDRESS 1309 W South Jordan Pkwy, Suite 200
   CITY, STATE ZIP South Jordan, Utah 84095
   EMAIL brad@carrwoodall.com
   PHONE (801) 254-9450

   To the City:

                                                                                        Page 18 of 29
Draper City
Attn: City Manager
Mike Barker
1020 East Pioneer Road
Draper, UT 84020
david.dobbins@draperutah.gov
(801) 576-6500

With a Copy to:

Draper City
Attn: City Attorney
Traci Gundersen
1020 East Pioneer Road
Draper, UT 84020
mike.barker@draperutah.gov
(801) 576-6500


   10.1. Effectiveness of Notice. Except as otherwise provided in this MDA, each Notice

   shall be effective and shall be deemed delivered on the earlier of:

      10.1.1. Hand Delivery. Its actual receipt, if delivered personally, by courier service,

      or by facsimile provided that a copy of the facsimile Notice is mailed or personally

      delivered as set forth herein on the same day and the sending party has confirmation

      of transmission receipt of the Notice. If the copy is not sent on the same day, then

      notice shall be deemed effective the date that the mailing or personal delivery occurs.

      10.1.2. Electronic Delivery. Its actual receipt if delivered electronically by email

      provided that a copy of the email is printed out in physical form and mailed or

      personally delivered as set forth herein on the same day and the sending party has an

      electronic receipt of the delivery of the Notice. If the copy is not sent on the same

      day, then notice shall be deemed effective the date that the mailing or personal

      delivery occurs.

                                                                                     Page 19 of 29
           10.1.3. Mailing. On the day the Notice is postmarked for mailing, postage prepaid,

           by First Class or Certified United States Mail and actually deposited in or delivered to

           the United States Mail. Any party may change its address for Notice under this MDA

           by giving written Notice to the other party in accordance with the provisions of this

           Section.

   11. Headings. The captions used in this MDA are for convenience only and a not intended

to be substantive provisions or evidences of intent.

   12. No Third-Party Rights/No Joint Venture. This MDA does not create a joint venture

relationship, partnership or agency relationship between the City, or Master Developer. Further,

the parties do not intend this MDA to create any third-party beneficiary rights. The Parties

acknowledge that this MDA refers to a private development and that the City has no interest in,

responsibility for or duty to any third parties concerning any improvements to the Property or

unless the City has accepted the dedication of such improvements at which time all rights and

responsibilities—except for warranty bond requirements under City’s Vested Laws and as

allowed by state law—for the dedicated public improvement shall be the City's.

   13. Assignability. The rights and responsibilities of Master Developer under this MDA may

be assigned in whole or in part, respectively, by Master Developer with the consent of the City as

provided herein.

       13.1. Sale of Lots. Master Developer’s selling or conveying lots in any approved

       Subdivision or Parcels to builders, users, or Subdevelopers, shall not be deemed to be an

       “assignment” subject to the above-referenced approval by the City unless specifically

       designated as such an assignment by Master Developer.

       13.2. Related Entity. Master Developer’s transfer of all or any part of the Property to
                                                                                         Page 20 of 29
any entity “related” to Master Developer (as defined by regulations of the Internal

Revenue Service in Section 165), Master Developer’s entry into a joint venture for the

development of the Project or Master Developer’s pledging of part or all of the Project as

security for financing shall also not be deemed to be an “assignment” subject to the

above-referenced approval by the City unless specifically designated as such an

assignment by the Master Developer. Master Developer shall give the City Notice of any

event specified in this sub-section within fifteen (15) calendar days after the event has

occurred. Such Notice shall include providing the City with all necessary contact

information for the newly responsible party.

13.3. Notice. Master Developer shall give Notice to the City of any proposed

assignment and provide such information regarding the proposed assignee that the City

may reasonably request in making the evaluation permitted under this Section. Such

Notice shall include providing the City with all necessary contact information for the

proposed assignee.

13.4. Time for Objection. Unless the City objects in writing within thirty (30) calendar

days of notice, the City shall be deemed to have approved of and consented to the

assignment.

13.5. Partial Assignment. If any proposed assignment is for less than all of Master

Developer’s rights and responsibilities then the assignee shall be responsible for the

performance of each of the obligations contained in this MDA to which the assignee

succeeds. Upon any such approved partial assignment Master Developer shall not be

released from any future obligations as to those obligations which are assigned but shall

remain responsible for the performance of any obligations herein.
                                                                                   Page 21 of 29
       13.6. Denial. The City may only withhold its consent if the City is not reasonably

       satisfied of the assignee’s financial ability to perform the obligations of or Master

       Developer proposed to be assigned or there is an existing breach of a development

       obligation owed to the City by the assignee or related entity that has not either been cured

       or in the process of being cured in a manner acceptable to the City. Any refusal of the

       City to accept an assignment shall be subject to the “Meet and Confer” and “Mediation”

       processes specified in Sections 5.5 and 5.7. If the refusal is subject to Arbitration as

       provided in Section 5.8 then the Parties shall follow such processes.

       13.7. Assignees Bound by MDA. Any assignee shall consent in writing to be bound by

       the assigned terms and conditions of this MDA as a condition precedent to the

       effectiveness of the assignment. That consent shall specifically acknowledge the

       provisions of Section 2.

   14. Binding Effect. If Master Developer sells or conveys Parcels of lands to Subdevelopers

or related parties, the lands so sold and conveyed shall bear the same rights, privileges,

configurations, and number of Residential Dwelling Units as applicable to such Parcel and be

subject to the same limitations and rights of the City when owned by or Master Developer and as

set forth in this MDA without any required approval, review, or consent by the City except as

otherwise provided herein.

   15. No Waiver. Failure of any Party hereto to exercise any right hereunder shall not be

deemed a waiver of any such right and shall not affect the right of such party to exercise at some

future date any such right or any other right it may have.

   16. Severability. If any provision of this MDA is held by a court of competent jurisdiction

to be invalid for any reason, the Parties consider and intend that this MDA shall be deemed
                                                                                             Page 22 of 29
amended to the extent necessary to make it consistent with such decision and the balance of this

MDA shall remain in full force and affect.

   17. Force Majeure. Any prevention, delay or stoppage of the performance of any obligation

under this Agreement which is due to strikes, labor disputes, inability to obtain labor, materials,

equipment or reasonable substitutes therefor; acts of nature, governmental restrictions,

regulations or controls, judicial orders, enemy or hostile government actions, wars, civil

commotions, fires or other casualties or other causes beyond the reasonable control of the Party

obligated to perform hereunder shall excuse performance of the obligation by that Party for a

period equal to the duration of that prevention, delay or stoppage.

   18. Time is of the Essence. Time is of the essence to this MDA and every right or

responsibility shall be performed within the times specified.

   19. Appointment of Representatives. To further the commitment of the Parties to

cooperate in the implementation of this MDA, the City and Master Developer each shall

designate and appoint a representative to act as a liaison between the City and its various

departments and the Master Developer. The initial representative for the City shall be the City

Manager. The initial representative for Master Developer shall be Brad Carr. The Parties may

change their designated representatives by Notice. The representatives shall be available at all

reasonable times to discuss and review the performance of the Parties to this MDA and the

development of the Project.

   20. Applicable Law. This MDA is entered into in Salt Lake County in the State of Utah and

shall be construed in accordance with the laws of the State of Utah irrespective of Utah’s choice

of law rules.

   21. Venue. Any action to enforce this MDA shall be brought only in the Third District Court
                                                                                             Page 23 of 29
for the State of Utah, Salt Lake City Division.

   22. Entire Agreement. This MDA, and all Exhibits thereto, is the entire agreement between

the Parties and may not be amended or modified except either as provided herein or by a

subsequent written amendment signed by all Parties.

   23. Mutual Drafting. Each Party has participated in negotiating and drafting this MDA and

therefore no provision of this MDA shall be construed for or against any Party based on which

Party drafted any particular portion of this MDA.

   24. Recordation and Running with the Land. This MDA shall be recorded in the chain of

title for the Project. This MDA shall be deemed to run with the land. The data disk of the City’s

Vested Laws, Exhibit “C”, shall not be recorded in the chain of title. A secure copy of Exhibit

“C” shall be filed with the City Recorder and each party shall also have an identical copy.

   25. Authority. The Parties to this MDA each warrant that they have all of the necessary

authority to execute this MDA. Specifically, on behalf of the City, the signature of the City

Manager of the City is affixed to this MDA lawfully binding the City pursuant to Ordinance No.

__________________ adopted by the City on this ____ day of _____________ 2025.

   26. Compliance with Utah Code § 10-9a-532(2)(c). The Parties have been represented by

competent legal counsel in the drafting of this MDA. The Parties agree, pursuant to Utah Code

Section 10-9a-532(2)(c), this MDA restricts Developer's rights under clearly established state

law in the following ways:

       26.1. Only one, single-family residential unit shall be permitted on the subject property.

       IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have executed this Agreement by and through

their respective, duly authorized representatives as of the day and year first herein above written.

MASTER DEVELOPER                              CITY
                                                                                           Page 24 of 29
SHANE AND SASHA LINGO                       Draper City

_______________________                     _____________________
By: Brad Carr                               By: ___________,
Its: Attorney                               Its: City Manager
Date: ____________                          Date: ____________

Approved as to form and legality:           Attest:

__________________                          __________________
City Attorney                               City Recorder

CITY ACKNOWLEDGMENT

STATE OF UTAH                )
                                 :ss.
COUNTY OF SALT LAKE )

On the ___ day of ____________, 2025 personally appeared before me ___________who being
by me duly sworn, did say that he is the City Manager of Draper City, a political subdivision of
the State of Utah, and that said instrument was signed in behalf of the City by authority of its
City Council and said City Manager acknowledged to me that the City executed the same.

                                            __________________________________
                                            NOTARY PUBLIC


My Commission Expires: ________________

Residing at: _________________________




                                                                                        Page 25 of 29
MASTER DEVELOPER ACKNOWLEDGMENT

STATE OF UTAH       )
                    :ss.
COUNTY OF SALT LAKE )

       On the ___ day of ____________, 2025, personally appeared before me
______________, who being by me duly sworn, did say that he/she is the ______________ of
______________, a Utah ______________ and that the foregoing instrument was duly
authorized by the company at a lawful meeting held by authority of its operating agreement and
signed in behalf of said company.

                                                   ______________________________
                                                   NOTARY PUBLIC

My Commission Expires: ________________

Residing at: _________________________




                                                                                      Page 26 of 29
              TABLE OF EXHIBITS


Exhibit “A”        Legal Description of Property
Exhibit “B”        Property Survey




                                                   Page 27 of 29
                                 Exhibit “A”
                         Legal Description of Property

A TRACT OF LAND BEING SITUATE IN THE SOUTHEAST QUARTER OF SECTION 32,
TOWNSHIP 3 SOUTH, RANGE 1 EAST, SALT LAKE BASE AND MERIDIAN, HAVING A
BASIS OF BEARINGS OF SOUTH 00°21'02" EAST BETWEEN THE EAST QUARTER AND
THE SOUTHEAST CORNER OF SAID SECTION, SAID TRACT OF LAND BEING MORE
PARTICULARLY DESCRIBED AS FOLLOWS: BEGINNING AT A POINT WHICH IS SOUTH
00°21'02" WEST ALONG THE SECTION LINE A DISTANCE OF 325.22 FEET AND
NORTH 89°20'04" WEST 355.82 FEET FROM THE EAST QUARTER OF SAID SECTION
32, AND RUNNING THENCE SOUTH 00°28'20" WEST 159.44 FEET; THENCE NORTH
89°24'22" WEST 42.88 FEET; THENCE NORTH 09°37'05" WEST 43.27 FEET; THENCE
NORTH 02°24'04" EAST 116.97 FEET TO THE SOUTH LINE OF SNOW CREST
SUBDIVISION, ON FILE WITH THE OFFICE OF THE OFFICE OF THE SALT LAKE COUNTY
RECORDER IN BOOK 2015P, AT PAGE 271 OF PLATS; THENCE SOUTH 89°20'04" EAST
ALONG SAID LINE AND A PROLONGATION THEREOF A DISTANCE OF 46.53 FEET TO
THE POINT OF BEGINNING.

CONTAINS 7,656 SQUARE FEET OR 0.176 ACRES, MORE OR LESS.




                                                                   Page 28 of 29
  Exhibit “B”
Property Survey




                  Page 29 of 29
                                                                                                     SURVEYOR'S CERTIFICATE:


ENGLAND/LINGO PROPERTIES                                                                                                                                O
                                                                                                                                                            N
                                                                                                                                                                AL
                                                                                                                                                                     LA N
                                                                                                                                                                             D
                                                                                                                                                                                 S




                                                                                                                                                   SI




                                                                                                                                                                                  U
                                                                                                                                                                                     RV
                                                                                                                                                 OFES
                                                                                                                                                            KAGAN M.
       LOCATED IN THE SOUTHEAST QUARTER OF SECTION 32,




                                                                                                                                                                                      EY OR
                                                                                                                                                              DIXON




                                                                                                                                                 PR
                                                                                                                                                            No. 9061091

               TOWNSHIP 3 SOUTH, RANGE 1 EAST,                                                                                                                  06/23/2022




                                                                                                                                                    *




                                                                                                                                                                                     *
                                                                                                                                                        T




                                                                                                                                                                                 H
                                                                                                                                                        S
                                                                                                                                                            A
                                                                                                                                                                TE           TA
                                                                                                                                                                     OF U

                 SALT LAKE BASE AND MERIDIAN
  PARCEL CONSOLIDATION AND BOUNDARY LINE ADJUSTMENT SURVEY                                           RECORD DESCRIPTIONS



                                                                                                                                             ’
                                                                                                                                         ’




                                                                                                     PROPOSED AS-SURVEYED DESCRIPTIONS




                                                                                                     BASIS OF BEARINGS


                                                                                                     NARRATIVE OF BOUNDARY




                                                                                                     GENERAL NOTES




                                                                                                     LEGEND




                                                                                                                  6/23/2022
                                                             RECORD OF SURVEY        ENGLAND/LINGO
                                                                                                                     1" = 30'
                                                             13040-13058 S 1300 E   KMD       KMD
                                                                                                                  1 OF 1
                                                               DRAPER, UTAH           SALT LAKE
            EXHIBIT J
ORIGINAL DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT
                                                             A-18-101
                                                                                1 2 ~;r5==:252
                                                                                      .::-~·_,..::,_,~,:. 11 :u·
                                                                               ~A i ~7 ~~1~
                                                                               '-'t:
                                                                               ,-, __ ,.           1··1c. .. .., F
                                                                                                                  ·4 AM $0.
                                                                                                                      4 -
                                                                                                                              oo
                                                                               DU!.,.i r:.   -   '-t:.ib l   '9 -   4 :12-44q8
                                                                                                                     1



                                                                               ~1 D~-1M GA~~D I ME~:
                                                                               hECOF:DER, ::.ALT LAKE 1))1JNri. UTi~
When Recorded, Return to:                                                      CITY OF DRAPER              .
Draper City Recorder                                                           i020 E PIOMEER RO
                                                                               DPAPER UT :34020
1020 E Pioneer Rd
                                                                               BY: MZA, DEPUTY - l;JI 7 p.
Draper, UT 84020


Affecting Tax Parcel No: 28-32-426-031


                                   DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT

This Development Agreement ("Agreement" ) is made and entered into as of this ..22 day of
flibc'.,a/\~ , 2018, by and between Sam J Coster (hereinafter collectively referred to as "Coster")
and Drape City, a municipal corporation of the State of Utah (hereinafter referred to as the "City") .

                                                  RECITALS

A.      Coster owns a home and real property located at 13040 South 1300 East, totaling approximately
0.13 acres as more particularly described in Exhibit A, attached hereto, and by this reference made a
part hereof (the " Property") . The City has recorded a Notice of Violation against the Property. Coster is
proposing to change the zone of the Property from zone RAl to zone RM2 and have the Notice of
Violation removed. This project will be known as "Coster Rezone" (the Project). The Project will meet
the needs of Coster, and the City.
B.      The Coster home was built in 1972 before the City was incorporated, and subsequently
purchased by Sam Coste r's grandmother (Florence Day) in 1990, with no Notice of Violation on the title .
Unbeknownst to Florence Day, the title company, and Draper Bank who provided the loan to purchase
the home, the property did not meet zoning requirements as established by the City. The City recorded
a Notice of Violation for an illegal subdivision of land in 1991. The home and property then came under
ownership of Sam Coster as joint tenant in February 2001. Florence Day and Sam Coster were unaware
of the Notice of Violation or the zoning issue until they applied for a loan to refinance the home in April
2001. Florence Day passed away in 2003, at which time Sam Coster became the sole owner.

C.      Coster desires to have the City approve the Project, notwithstanding the fact that the Project, as
currently designed, may not completely satisfy all of the rules and regulations of the applicable land-use
ordinances of the City. The Property is to be zoned RM2 subject to the standards of this agreement.
The new zone will consist of one detached single -family dwelling, which already exists on the property.
Coster believes that changing the zone of his property will allow him to have a defect-free title, and
likewise will allow him to perform any needed repairs or renovations in the event of any emergency or
natural disaster. Due to the current status of the title as a result of the illegal subdivision, Coster would
not be able to acquire the necessary permits and permissions or relief from insurance in the event of
such a situation as might require construction or improvements of his existing residence .

D.     There are benefits to the City by entering into this agreement and approving the Project.
Among them are : (1) In the event of a disaster, the home could be repaired/rebuilt rather than left
abandoned to deteriorate. Once the Project is approved and the Agreement made, there will no longer
be a Notice of Violation and the resultant defect on the property's title will be removed. Th is means any
necessary permits and permissions for repairs or rebuilding could be obtained . (2) This Project and



                                                                                                                         1
Agreement will bring final resolution to the longstanding issue of the parcel of land that Coster occupies
being illegally subdivided and not meeting the area requirement of the zone and will remove the Notice
of Violation . (3) The neighborhood in which Coster resides is made up of single family detached
dwellings. With the Property remaining a single family detached dwelling, the neighboring community
will not be adversely affected by any increases in traffic, noise, or obstruction of views which could be
caused by a multi-family dwelling.

E.      As consideration for the development agreement, Coster is guaranteeing that no multi-family
housing will be built, even though he will be obtaining a multi-family zoning district. The Property will
consist of only one single-family detached dwell ing.

        The Parties understand and intend that this Development Agreement is a " development
        agreement" within the meaning of, and entered into pursuant to the terms of Utah Code Ann .
        §10-9a-101 (2007), et seq.

NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the mutual covenants contained herein and other good and
valuable consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of which is hereby acknowledged, the City and Coster
hereby agree as follows:
                                                 AGREEMENT

1.        Definitions. When used in th is Agreement, each term shall have the meaning set forth below or
elsewhere in this Agreement unless such meaning is clearly precluded by the context in which the term
is used .
          1.1      "Coster" means Sam J Coster, the owner of the property at 13040 S 1300 E Draper, UT
          84020, and/or as applicable any successor and their respective assigns and successors-in-
          interest.

        1.2     "Existing Land Use Regulations" means those certain land use regulations in effect as of
        the date of this Agreement, including any modifications thereto conta ined herein . Existing Land
        Use Regulations does not include fees that are applicable to future project approvals, which will
        be those in effect at the time the application for any such project approval is submitted .

        1.3      " Land Use Regulations" means laws, statutes, ordinances, codes, resolutions, rules,
        regulations, approvals, perm its of every kind and character, programs and official policies and
        actions of City governing the permitted uses of land, density and intensity of use and the
        density, improvement and construction standards and specifications applicable to the
        development of the Property. Land use regulations contained in such approvals, the Draper City
        Subdivision Ordinance, the City's development standards and public improvement
        specifications, hillside and/or land disturbance regulations, the sensitive lands overlay
        regulations and geologic hazards regulations.

        1.4    "Project" means the re-zoning of the Coster Property from zone RAl to zone RM2 and
        removing the Notice of Violation, as defined unde r the terms of this Agreement.

        1.5     "Property" means the parcel of approximately 0.13 acres of rea l property as more
        particularly described in Exhibit A attached hereto, and by th is reference made a part hereof.




                                                                                                            2
',




             1.6      "Successor'' means any person or entity who may own the property at any time in the
             future .

     2.       Consideration. As consideration for the development agreement, Coster is guaranteeing that
     no multi-family housing will be built. The Property will consist of one single-family detached dwelling.
     This will allow the property to comply with Zoning Regulations and be considered a Legal Conforming
     parcel in regard to lot size. The RM2 zone allows single family lots with at least 4,000 square feet in size .
     The Property is 5,662 square feet in size.

     3.      City Obligation.
     The City agrees to remove the Notice of Violation currently recorded against the Property within 30 days
     of approving the rezone and after recording the Development Agreement. The rezone shall satisfy the
     violations listed in the Notice of Violation . The City also agrees to waive application fees for a
     Conditional Use Permit.


     4.      Vested Rights and Reserved Legislative Powers

             4.1      Reserved Legislative Powers. Coster acknowledges that the City is restricted in its
             authority to limit its police power by contract and that the limitations, reservations and
             exceptions set forth herein are intended to reserve to the City all of its police power that cannot
             be so limited. Notwithstanding the retained power of the City to enact such legislation under
             the police powers, such legislation shall only be applied to modify the Existing Land Use
             Regulations and Supplemental Development Standards which are applicable to the Project
             under the terms of this Agreement based upon the policies, facts and circumstances meeting
             the compelling, countervailing public interest exception to the vested rights doctrine in the State
             of Utah. Any such proposed legislative changes affecting the Land Use Regulations,
             Supplemental Development Standards and terms and conditions of this Agreement applicable to
             the Project shall be of general application to all development activity in the City; and, unless the
             City declares an emergency, Coster shall be entitled to prior written notice and an opportunity
             to be heard with respect any proposed change and its applicability to the Project under the
             compelling, countervailing public interest exception to the vested rights doctrine.

     5.      Successor and Assigns

             5.1      Binding Effect. This Agreement shall be binding upon the successors and assigns of
             Coster in the ownership or development of any portion of the Project.

             5.2      Assignment. Neither this Agreement nor any of its provisions, terms or conditions may
             be assigned to any other party, individual or entity without assigning the rights as well as the
             responsibilities under this Agreement and without the prior written consent of the City, which
             consent shall not be unreasonably w ithheld . Any such request for assignment may be made by
             letter addressed to the City, and the prior written consent of the City may also be evidenced by
             letter from the City to Coster or his successors or assigns.

     6.      Default. In the event either party fails to perform its obligations hereunder or to comply with
             the terms hereof, the party believing that a Default has occurred shall provide Notice to the
             other party. Said Notice of Default shall, (1) specify the claimed event of Default; (2) identify the



                                                                                                                  3
        provisions of this Agreement claimed to be in Default; (3) identify why the Default is material;
        and (4) (optional) propose a method and time for curing the Default. Upon the issuance of a
        Notice of Default, the parties shall engage in a " Meet and Confer" . If the issue is not resolved
        during the "Meet and Confer'' process, the parties shall engage in a mediation process. If a
        mediation process is necessary based on the foregoing, the parties shall appoint a mutually
        acceptable mediator within fourteen (14) days of the " Meet and Confer" . If the parties are
        unable to agree on a single acceptable mediator, each shall, w ith in fourteen (14) days, appoint
        their own representative. These two representatives shall choose the single mediator. Coster
        shall pay the fees of the chosen mediator. After being named mediator, such individual shall
        within fifteen (15) days, review the posit ions of the parties regarding the mediation issues and
        promptly attempt to mediate the issue between the parties. If the parties are unable to reach
        agreement, the mediator shall notify the parties in writing of the resolution that the mediator
        deems appropriate. The mediator's opinion shall not be binding on the parties. If the parties
        are not able to resolve the Default by the " Meet and Confer'' or by mediation then the parties
        may have all rights and remedies available in equ ity, including, but not lim ited to, injunctive
        relief, and specific performance. Neither party sh all be entitled to damages of any nature,
        which are hereby waived .

7.       Notices and Amendments . Any notices, amendments, requests and demands required or
         desired to be given hereunder shall be in writing and shall be served personally upon the party
         for whom intended, or if mailed, be by certified mail, return receipt requested, postage pre-
         paid, to such party at its address shown below.

                 To Coster:

                 Sam J Coster
                 13040 S 1300 E
                 Draper, UT 84020

                 To the City:

                 Draper City
                 Attn : Draper City Manager
                 1020 E. Pioneer Road
                 Draper, UT 84020

     Any party may change its address or notice by giving written notice to the other party in accordance
     with the provisions of this section.



8.      General Terms and Conditions



        8.1     Agreement to Run with the Land . This Agreement shall be recorded in the office of the
        Salt Lake County Recorder against the Property and is intended to and shall be deemed to run
        with the land and shall be binding on all successors in the ownership of any portion of the
        Property.




                                                                                                             4
8.2     Entire Agreement. This Agreement, together with the exh ibits hereto, integrates all of
the terms and conditions pertaining to the subject matter hereof and supersedes all prior
negotiations, representations, promises, inducements, or previous agreements between the
parties hereto with respect to the subject matter hereof. Any amendments hereto must be in
writing and signed by the respective parties hereto.

8.3     Headings. The headings contained in this Agreement are intended for convenience only
and are in no way to be used to construe or limit the text herein.

8.4      Non-liability of City Officia ls or Employees. No officer, representative, agent or
employee of the City shall be personally liable to Coster, in the event of any default or breach by
the City or for any amount which may become due, or its successors or assignees, for any
obligation arising out of the terms of this Agreement.

8.5     No Third -Party Rights . The obligations of the parties set forth in this Agreement shall
not create any rights or obligations to any persons or parties other than the City and Coster.
The City and Coster alone shall be entitled to enforce or wa ive any provisions of this Agreement
to the extent that such provisions are for their benefit.

8.6    Severability. Should any portion of this Agreement for any reason be declared invalid or
unenforceable, the invalidity or unenforceability of such portion shall not affect the validity of
any remaining portions, and the same shall be deemed in ful l force and effect as if this
Agreement had been executed with the invalid portions eliminated.

8.7      Waiver. No waiver of any of the provisions of this Agreement shall operate as a waiver
of any other provision regardless of any similarity that may exist between such provisions nor
shall a waiver in one instance ope rate as a waiver in any future event . No waiver shall be
binding unless executed in writing by the waiving party.

8.8     Governing Law. This Agreement and the performance hereunder shall be governed by
the laws of the State of Utah .

8.9      Exhibits. Any exhibit to this Agreement is incorporated herein by this reference, and
failure to attach any such exhibit shall not affect the validity of this Agreement or of such
exhibit. An unattached exhibit is available from the records of the parties.

8.10     Attorneys Fees. In the event a dispute arises between the parties hereto, with respect
to this Agreement, the prevailing party to any action, brought to enforce the terms of this
Agreement, shall be entitled to recover against the other party the costs, expenses and
attorney's fees incurred in such action .

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have executed this Agreement by and through their
respective duly authorized representatives as of the day and year first written above .




                                                                                                    5
                                                                                      Samuel J Coster




                                                               Title :    D\NI)Vc


STATE OF UTAH )
                       ss.
County of Salt Lake)

 On the    21       day of   Fe           y
                                 bVIA. t\ t         ,20 l <is' , personally appeared before
 me    S IA V"1 Ye 1   CO Ste V                           , known or satisfactorily proved to
me to be the person who signed the foregoing instrument, and acknowledged to me that he is
the owner of property located at 13040 South 1300 East.




                                                          Notary Public




                                                               B~

                                                        Printed Name : \    Y"'t)~   V-. \N a.l\L.Cr
                                                                Title :    ~~~




                                                                                                   6
 '



                                                 Exhibit A

BEGINNING at a point which is 325 .00 feet South 00°07'18" East and 402.35 feet North 89°52'45" West
from the East quarter corner of Section 32, Township 3 South, Range 1 East, Salt Lake Base and Meridian
and running thence South 01 °55'57" West 116.7 feet; thence South 89°52' 42" East 50.22 feet; thence
North 00°07'18" East 116.94 feet; thence North 89°52'42" West 46.53 feet to the point of beginning .

TOGETHER with and subject to a right of way for the purpose of ingress and egress over and across the
following described tract of land : Beginning at a pint 325 .02 feet South from the East quarter corner of
Section 32, Township 3 South, Range 1 East, Salt Lake Base and Meridian, and running thence West
402 .35 feet; thence South 25.00 feet; thence East 402 .35 feet; thence North 25.00 feet to the point of
the beginning.

Also, Together with and subject to a right of way 12.00 feet on both sides of the following center line:

Beginning at a point which is 325 .00 feet South 00°07'18" East and 355.82 feet North 89°52'42" West
from the East quarter corner of Section 32, Township 3 South, Range 1 East, Salt Lake Base and Meridian
and running thence South 00°07'18" West 116.94 feet.




                                                                                                             7
