MEMO
To: City Council
From: Travis DeJong.
Date: 2025-01-07
Re: Public Hearing: Providing Local Consent for a Full-Service Restaurant License for Mint
Sushi and Tapas 5 LLC dba Mint Sushi and Tapas.


Comments:

Mint Sushi and Tapas 5 LLC dba Mint Sushi and Tapas located at 519 E 12300 S Suite B is
seeking Local Consent for a Full-Service Restaurant license. They have provided the
following:

- Liquor liability insurance.
- Bond payable to the Department of Alcoholic Beverage Services.
- Floor map showing where alcohol is to be served, stored, and consumed.
- Sales tax license.
- A background check conducted by the Bureau of Criminal Identification.

Mint Sushi and Tapas 5 LLC dba Mint Sushi and Tapas has applied for a commercial
business license, numbered CBL-2595-2024 and set to expire on 12-31-2025. The
application is complete and is currently waiting on the Fire Department to give approval
to issue the license.



The findings for Local Consent approval are as follows:

DCMC 6-4-040 requires that a full-service restaurant be at least three hundred feet (300')
away from any community location (schools, churches, public libraries, public
playgrounds, and public parks) measured by the shortest pedestrian route taken from
the nearest patron entrance of the restaurant to the property boundary of the
community location.

Mint Sushi and Tapas 5 LLC dba Mint Sushi and Tapas has met this requirement.

DCMC 6-4-040 requires that a full-service restaurant be at least two hundred feet (200')
away from any community location (schools, churches, public libraries, public
playgrounds, and public parks) measured in a straight line from the nearest patron
entrance of the restaurant to the property boundary of the community location.
Mint Sushi and Tapas 5 LLC dba Mint Sushi and Tapas has met this requirement.

DCMC 6-4-050 places no restrictions on the number of full-service restaurant licenses
that can be granted by the City.


ATTACHMENTS:

Floor Plan.pdf
ATTACHMENTS:

Liquor Liability.pdf
ATTACHMENTS:

Mint Sushi and Tapas 5 LLC Local Consent PP.pdf
ATTACHMENTS:

Sales Tax License.pdf
ATTACHMENTS:

Bond.pdf
