MEMO
To: Planning Commission
From: Nick Whittaker, MCMP
Date: 2025-11-13
Re: Public Hearing: Plummer Zoning Map Amendment (Legislative Item)


Comments:


This application is a request for approval of a Zoning Map Amendment from RA1 to RA2
for approximately 1.31 acres located on the south side of 13200 S. at approximately 1360
E. 13200 S. and .97 acres located on the east side of 1300 E. at approximately 13239 S
1300 E. The applicant is requesting that a Zoning Map Amendment be approved so that
the applicant can subdivide the properties.



Findings for Approval:

  1. The proposed zoning map amendment is consistent with goals, objectives, and
     policies of the city's general plan.
  2. The proposed zoning map amendment is compatible with the subject properties
     existing Land Use Designation and harmonious with the overall character of existing
     development in the vicinity of the subject property.
  3. The proposed zoning map amendment will not adversely affect adjacent property.
  4. There are adequate facilities and services intended to serve the subject property,
     including, but not limited to, roadways, parks and recreation facilities, police and fire
     protection, schools, stormwater drainage systems, water supplies, and wastewater
     and refuse collection.

Findings for Denial:
  1. The proposed zoning map amendment is not consistent with goals, objectives, and
     policies of the city's general plan.
  2. The proposed zoning map amendment is not compatible with the subject properties
     existing Land Use Designation and is not harmonious with the overall character of
     existing development in the vicinity of the subject property.
  3. The proposed zoning map amendment will adversely affect adjacent property.
  4. There are not adequate facilities and services intended to serve the subject
     property, including, but not limited to, roadways, parks and recreation facilities,
     police and fire protection, schools, stormwater drainage systems, water supplies,
     and wastewater and refuse collection.
ATTACHMENTS:

Plummer ZMA staff Report.pdf
