                       CITY COUNCIL AGENDA

                       Tuesday, July 15, 2025, 5:30 PM
                       1020 E. Pioneer Road
                       Draper, Utah 84020
                       Council Chambers
5:30 PM STUDY SESSION

       Discussion: Station Area Plan Survey Results and Draft Plan Review
       Joint Session with the Planning Commission

       Presentation: Jordan Valley Water Rates

       Report: Major Road Capital Improvement Projects - Scott Cooley

       Report: Parks Capital Improvement Projects - Rhett Ogden

       Council/Manager Reports

7:00 PM BUSINESS SESSION

1.     Call to Order

2.     Pledge of Allegiance

3.     Public Comments
       To be considerate of everyone attending the meeting, public comments will be
       restricted to items that are not listed on this or a future agenda and limited to
       three minutes per person. Comments which cannot be made within these limits
       should be submitted in writing to the City Recorder prior to noon the day before
       the meeting. Comments pertaining to an item on the agenda should not be
       given at this time but should be held until that item is called.

4.     Presentation

       4.a Presentation: 2025 Moderate Income Housing Report
           Presentation regarding the annual Moderate Income Housing Plan (MIHP)
           and required reporting to the State. Staff presentation by Todd Taylor.

5.     Consent Items

       5.a Approval of the July 1, 2025 City Council Meeting Minutes
         5.b Approval of Resolution #25-38
             A resolution reappointing Nancy Nichols and Christa Hutchison to the
             Draper City Historic Preservation Commission.

6.       Items for Council Consideration

         6.a Public Hearing: Providing Local Consent for a Hospitality Amenity
             License for Draper Hotel Holdings LLC dba Homewood Suites.
             Staff report by Travis DeJong.

7.       Recess to a Draper City Community Redevelopment Agency Meeting

8.       Adjournment

I, the City Recorder of Draper City, certify that copies of this agenda for the Draper City
Council meeting to be held July 15, 2025, were posted at Draper City Hall, Draper City
website www.draperutah.gov, and the Utah Public Notice website at www.utah.gov/pmn.




                                              Nicole Smedley, CMC, City Recorder
                                              Draper City, State of Utah



In compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act, any individuals needing special
accommodations or services during this meeting shall notify Nicole Smedley, City
Recorder at (801) 576-6502 or nicole.smedley@draperutah.gov, at least 24 hours prior to
the meeting.
