                                  Development Review Committee
                                      1020 East Pioneer Road
                                        Draper, UT 84020
                                          April 11, 2025

To:              Draper City Planning Commission
                 Business Date: April 24, 2025

From:            Development Review Committee

Prepared By: Nick Whittaker, MCMP, Planner II
             Planning Division
             Community Development Department
             801-576-6522, Nick.Whittaker@draperutah.gov

Re:     Alpine Trails Studio, LLC. – Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit Request
        Application No.: 2025-0035-USE
        Applicant:         Jackson Jared, representing Alpine Trails Studio, LLC.
        Project Location: 1094 E. 13800 S.
        Current Zoning: RA1 (Residential Agricultural 40,000 ft2 minimum lot size) Zone
        Acreage:           1.61 Acres (Approximately 70,131 ft2)
        Request:           Request for approval of an Home Occupation Conditional Use
                           Permit in the RA1 zone regarding a request to operate a Cottage
                           Business Home Occupation.



BACKGROUND AND SUMMARY

This application is a request for approval of a Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit for
approximately 1.61 acres located on the South side of 13800 S. at approximately 1094 E.
13800 S. (Exhibit C & D). The property is currently zoned RA1. The applicant is requesting
that a Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit be approved to allow for a cottage
business which creates small crafted items which are sold on line.

The property is Lot 2 of the Southfork Subdivision. The detached single-family dwelling was
built in 1992. A shed is located in the rear yard and was built in 1994. The proposed Home
Occupation utilizes an office located on the main floor of the dwelling as an office space for
business administration and a portion of the shed to manufacture and assemble small
craft templates and tool accessory items and store inventory (Exhibits C, F, G & H).




Alpine Trails Studio, LLC.                                            App. # 2025-0035-USE
Home Occupation Conditional Use Request         1
ANALYSIS

General Plan and Zoning.

 Table 1                   General Plan and Zoning Designations                       Exhibit
 Existing Land Use         Residential Low/Medium Density                             Exhibit D
 Current Zoning            RA1                                                        Exhibit E
 Adjacent Zoning
    East                   RA1
    West                   RA1
    North                  RA2 (Residential Agricultural, 20,000 ft2 lot minimum)
    South                  OS (Open Space)

The Residential Low/Medium Density land use designation is characterized as follows:




According to Draper City Municipal Code (DCMC) Section 9-8-020 the purpose of the RA1



Alpine Trails Studio, LLC.                                                App. # 2025-0035-USE
Home Occupation Conditional Use Request           2
zone is to “foster low density development with little impact on its surroundings and
municipal services; to generally preserve the character of the City’s semi-rural areas; and to
promote and preserve conditions favorable to large-lot family life, including the keeping of
limited numbers of animals and fowl. The predominant use in these zones is intended to
be detached single-family dwellings, protected from encroachment by commercial and
industrial uses.”

Home Occupation. The DCMC Section 9-34-040 outlines development standards applicable
to all home occupations. Those criteria, along with information specific to the subject
request, are as follows:

        A. Ownership: The home occupation shall be owned and operated by a person who
             resides in the dwelling where the home occupation is located. Such person shall
             be the primary provider of the labor, work, or service provided in the home
             occupation.

                 •   The applicant owns the business and owns and resides at the dwelling.

        B. Business License: A business license for the home occupation shall be obtained
             from and continually maintained with the city pursuant to title 6, chapter 11 of
             this code.

                 •   The applicant has submitted a business license application to the city.

        C. Employees: Members of the family of the owner who reside in the dwelling may
             be employed in the home occupation. Nonfamily or nonresident employees
             shall be limited to one person.

                 •   The applicant is the only employee of the business.

        D. Inspection: All facilities shall comply with fire, building, plumbing, electrical and
             all other city, county, state and federal codes. Inspections during reasonable
             hours by city officials may occur as necessary to assure compliance with
             regulations.

                 •   The applicant has agreed to comply with necessary inspections (Exhibit
                     H).

        E. Inventory: No stock in trade, inventory, or other merchandise to exceed two
             hundred fifty (250) square feet shall be kept on the premises. No outside storage
             is allowed.




Alpine Trails Studio, LLC.                                               App. # 2025-0035-USE
Home Occupation Conditional Use Request          3
                 •   The applicant indicated in their responses found in Exhibit H that storage
                     of inventory takes up approximately 15 ft2 within the shed. The applicant
                     did not indicate that there would be any outdoor storage in yard areas.

        F. Modification Of Structures Or Yards: There shall be no visible evidence from the
             exterior of a dwelling that it is being used for any other purpose than that of a
             dwelling. No activities shall be carried on outside the dwelling in the yard for the
             benefit of or incidental to the home occupation. No front yard area shall be
             altered to provide parking required for a home occupation.

                 •   No business activity will be conducted in yard areas. Customers do not
                     come to the home and additional parking is not needed for the home
                     occupation.

        G. Nuisance: Tools, items, equipment, or activities conducted within the dwelling
             which is offensive or noxious by reason of the emission of odor, smoke, gas,
             vibration, magnetic interference, or noise shall be prohibited.

                 •   According to the applicant the operation of the home occupation does
                     not use tools or equipment or engage in activities that would create any
                     of these listed nuisances (Exhibit H). The applicant uses a residential style
                     laser cutter which should not produce any nuisance.

        H. Secondary Use: The home occupation shall be clearly incidental and secondary
             to the primary use of the dwelling for residential purposes. The home
             occupation shall not disrupt the normal residential character of the
             neighborhood in which the residence is located. Not more than twenty five
             percent (25%) of the dwelling unit shall be used for the home occupation.

                 •   The home occupation utilizes approximately 110 ft2 for the home office
                     and 50 ft2 in the shed which combined is an area equivalent to
                     approximately 3.5% of the gross square footage of the dwelling unit
                     (Exhibits G & H).

        I.   Signs: All signage in a residential area must comply with chapter 26, "Signs", of
             this title.

                 •   The home occupation will not have any signage on the property (Exhibit
                     H).

        J.   Traffic, Parking, And Access: No home occupation use shall generate pedestrian,
             parking, or vehicular traffic in excess of that customarily associated with the




Alpine Trails Studio, LLC.                                                App. # 2025-0035-USE
Home Occupation Conditional Use Request           4
             zone in which the use is located. All parking shall be provided and maintained on
             site with adequate provision for drop off traffic.

                 •   No customers come to the home. All customer interactions and sales are
                     conducted on line.

        K. Vehicles: Other than the business owner's personal transportation, there shall
             be no vehicles or equipment on the property associated with the home
             occupation which would not normally be found at a residence. No signage for
             the home occupation shall be allowed on vehicles.

                 •   There are no business vehicles used in the operation of the home
                     occupation (Exhibit H).

        L. Yards: Yards surrounding the dwelling and accessory buildings shall not be used
             for any activities or storage of any materials associated with the home
             occupation.

                 •   The applicant is seeking a deviation from this standard to use
                     approximately 50 ft2 located in a shed (accessory building) in conjunction
                     with the home occupation.

        M. Customers: No customers allowed. Children accessing a limited daycare or
           limited preschool facility shall not be considered customers.

                 •   No customers come to the home. All Customer activity is online (Exhibit
                     H).

        N. Utility Demand: The home occupation shall not cause a demand for public
             utilities in excess of that necessarily and customarily provided for residential
             uses.

                 •   The applicant indicates that there will be no use of utilities in excess of
                     that which is customary for residential use that would be needed to
                     operate the home occupation (Exhibit H).

        O. Main Structure: The home occupations shall be conducted, located, and
           contained within the primary structure on the property.

                 •   The applicant is seeking a deviation from this standard to use
                     approximately 50 ft² located in a shed (accessory building) in conjunction
                     with the home occupation. The majority of the area use in the home
                     occupation will be in a 110 ft² office located in the main dwelling.



Alpine Trails Studio, LLC.                                                App. # 2025-0035-USE
Home Occupation Conditional Use Request           5
        P. Single-Family And Multiple-Family Dwellings: Home occupations listed as
             permitted or conditional within this title may be permitted in a single-family or a
             multiple-family dwelling, subject to the standards found within this section and
             section 9-34-060 of this chapter. Businesses within multiple-family dwellings
             shall provide an approval letter from the respective homeowners' association, or
             management company in the case of apartments, if the business proposes any
             employees, customers or business vehicles.

                 •   The property contains a single-family dwelling and an approval letter
                     from a HOA or management company is not required (Exhibit H).

        Q. Licensure: Any home occupation involving childcare shall comply with all
             applicable state and local laws and regulations regarding residential childcare,
             including, but not limited to, provisions of the Utah child care licensing act, as set
             forth in Utah Code Annotated section 26-39-101 et seq., as amended, and the
             residential certificate childcare standards as set forth in the Utah administrative
             code section R430-50-1 et seq., as amended. In addition, cottage food
             production operations are regulated and inspected by the Utah department of
             agriculture. Any food related home occupation under their jurisdiction must
             comply with these regulations.

                 •   The home occupation does not involve child care or food production.

Criteria for Approval.

The criteria for review and potential approval of a conditional use permit request is found
in Section 9-5-080(E) of the DCMC. This section depicts the standard of review for such
requests as:

        E. Approval Standards: The standards of this subsection shall apply to the issuance
            of a conditional use permit:
         1. A conditional use permit may be issued for a use to be located within a zone
            where the particular conditional use is allowed by the use regulations of the
            zone.
         2. Reasonable conditions may be imposed as necessary to substantially mitigate
            reasonably anticipated detrimental effects of the proposed use. These
            conditions may include conditions concerning use, construction, character,
            location, landscaping, screening, parking, hours of operation, and other matters
            relating to the purposes and objectives of this section. Such conditions shall be
            expressly set forth in the motion authorizing the conditional use permit.
         3. If the reasonably anticipated detrimental effects of a proposed conditional use
            cannot be substantially mitigated by the imposition of reasonable conditions to



Alpine Trails Studio, LLC.                                                App. # 2025-0035-USE
Home Occupation Conditional Use Request          6
             achieve compliance with applicable standards, the conditional use may be
             denied.
          4. The following factors shall be reviewed and considered in determining whether a
             conditional use permit application should be approved, approved with
             conditions, or denied because reasonable conditions cannot be imposed to
             achieve compliance with applicable standards:
              a. The harmony and compliance of the proposed use with the objectives and
                 requirements of the city's general plan and this title;
              b. The suitability of the specific property for the proposed use;
              c. Whether the proposed use or facility may be injurious to potential or existing
                 development in the vicinity;
              d. The economic impact of the proposed facility or use on the surrounding
                 area;
              e. The aesthetic impact of the proposed facility or use on the surrounding area;
              f. The safeguards proposed or provided to ensure adequate utilities,
                 transportation access, drainage, parking, loading space, lighting, screening,
                 landscaping, open space, fire protection, and pedestrian and vehicular
                 circulation;
              g. The safeguards provided or proposed to prevent noxious or offensive
                 emissions such as noise, glare, dust, pollutants and odor from the proposed
                 facility or use; and
              h. The impact of the proposed facility or use on the health, safety, and welfare
                 of the city, the area, and persons owning or leasing property in the area.
          5. The planning commission may request additional information as may be
             reasonably needed to determine whether the requirements of this subsection E
             can be met.

Staff has reviewed the application and the additionally submitted documentation and
responses from the applicant. The proposed Home Occupation is a Cottage Business which
requires approval through a Conditional Use Permit per DCMC 9-34-050. Staff also notes
that the Home Occupation also utilizes a detached structure in addition to utilizing the
primary residential dwelling which also requires Conditional Use Approval as it does not
comply with the applicable permitted use standards found in DCMC 9-34-040. Alteration of
the development standards is permissible under Section 9-34-060 of the DCMC.

A cottage business is defined in the DCMC 9-3-040 as, “A business where products are
created in the home. The products are unique in nature, such as handicraft, art, and
jewelry. Limited food production can also be considered. Anything that uses a material, a
mixture of materials or a quantity of materials that could be classified by the fire marshal
or building official as dangerous or hazardous will not be allowed.”

The requirements and standards for approval of a Conditional Use Permit are found in 9-5-
080(E) of the DCMC. The reasonably anticipated detrimental effects related to operating a



Alpine Trails Studio, LLC.                                             App. # 2025-0035-USE
Home Occupation Conditional Use Request        7
cottage business are typically the potential for loud noises or odors discernable from
outside of the property, and traffic generated by customers. In regards to this particular
home occupation these detrimental effects are mitigated by the small size of the overall
operation and the fact that all business operations are conducted entirely inside enclosed
buildings. Additionally, there are no additional impacts to neighborhood traffic as no
customers come to the home, and there are no business vehicles.

Staff concurs with the applicant’s statements that there will be no detrimental impact to
the health, safety, or general welfare of persons residing or working in the vicinity, or be
injurious to property or improvements in the vicinity.



REVIEWS

Planning Division Review. The Draper City Planning Division has completed their review of
the Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit submission. Comments from this division, if
any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Engineering and Public Works Divisions Review. The Draper City Engineering and Public
Works Divisions have completed their reviews of the Home Occupation Conditional Use
Permit submission. Comments from these divisions, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Building Division Review. The Draper City Building Division has completed their review of
the Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit submission. Comments from this division, if
any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Fire Division Review. The Draper City Fire Marshal has completed his review of the Home
Occupation Conditional Use Permit submission. Comments from this division, if any, can
be found in Exhibit A.

Noticing. Notice has been properly issued in the manner outlined in the City and State
Codes.



STAFF RECOMMENDATION

Staff recommends that the Planning Commission review the request based on the findings
and the criteria for approval, or denial as listed within the staff report. The Planning
Commission should also review the request, hear from the applicant, and receive public
comment prior to making a decision.

If the Planning Commission decides to approve the request, staff recommends they include
the following conditions of approval:



Alpine Trails Studio, LLC.                                             App. # 2025-0035-USE
Home Occupation Conditional Use Request        8
    1. That all requirements of the Draper City Engineering, Public Works, Building,
       Planning, and Fire Divisions are satisfied.
    2. That a Draper City business license shall be obtained and maintained by the
       business owner for as long as the business remains in operation.
    3. That all production and assembly of the crafted items shall be confined to the 50 ft2
       area located within the shed as indicated in this report and as shown on the
       approved site plans.
    4. That no customers shall come to the home.



MODEL MOTIONS AND FINDINGS

Sample Motion for Approval – I move that we approve the Home Occupation Conditional
Use Permit, as requested by Jackson Jared, representing Alpine Trails Studio, LLC.
Application 2025-0035-USE, based on the following findings for approval and subject to the
conditions listed in the Staff Report dated April 11, 2025.

Findings for approval:

        1. The proposal complies with the standards for approval found in DCMC Section 9-
           5-080(E) and potential negative impacts are mitigated through the imposition of
           reasonable conditions.

I move that we approve the Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit, as requested by
Jackson Jared, representing Alpine Trails Studio, LLC. Application 2025-0035-USE, based on
the findings for approval and subject to the conditions listed in the Staff Report dated April
11, 2025 and as modified by the following additional findings or conditions:

        1. (List any additional findings…)
        2. (List any additional conditions…)

Sample Motion for Denial – I move that we deny the Home Occupation Conditional Use
Permit, as requested by Jackson Jared, representing Alpine Trails Studio, LLC. Application
2025-0035-USE, based on the following findings for denial listed in the Staff Report dated
April 11, 2025.

Findings for denial:

        1. The proposal does not comply with all standards for approval found in DCMC
           Section 9-5-080(E) and potential negative impacts are not able to be sufficiently
           mitigated through the imposition of reasonable conditions.




Alpine Trails Studio, LLC.                                            App. # 2025-0035-USE
Home Occupation Conditional Use Request        9
                     DEVELOPMENT REVIEW COMMITTEE ACKNOWLEDGEMENT


We, the undersigned, as duly appointed members of the Draper City Development Review
Committee, do acknowledge that the application which provides the subject for this staff
report has been reviewed by the Committee and has been found to be appropriate for
review by the Draper City Planning Commission and/or City Council.

                              Digitally signed by Brien Ua^dield                                              Digitally signed by Todd A.
                              DN; C.US,                                                                       Draper
                              E>brien.max flold@draperutah.gov.                                               DN: C=US,
   Brien Maxfleld 0=0rapor, OUePublic Wortis -                                               Todd A. Draper
                                                                                                              E=todd.draper@draper.ut.us,
                                                                                                              O=Draper City Planning,
                              Englnoohng, CN-Brien Maxtiold                                                   CN=Todd A. Draper
                              Date: 2025 0g.l7 09:58:32-g6'00’                                                Date: 2025.04.18
                                                                                                              12:56:53-06'00'


Draper City Public Works Department                                                  Draper City Planning Division

                             Dignal)/ signca by Don Bucktoy
                             ON'C’US. E>aoo buckleyi^cjrbixet.ul.us. 0>0rapor

Don Buckley                  City TrtB Deparmenl. OU-EitB Uatshal, CN>Don
                             Buddoy
                             Date- 2025 04.17 1



Draper City Fire Department

                            OiglUliy sigrod By Matthew Symes
                            DN:C-US.

  Matthew Symes E-mait.symosi2Bdraoonjlah.gov,
                City Coro.. CN.Matthew Symos
                                               O-Drager
                            Date: 2025.04.17 10:13:21-OS'OO’



Draper City Building Division




Alpine Trails Studio, LLC.                                                                                App. # 2025-0035-USE
Home Occupation Conditional Use Request                                         10
                                     EXHIBIT A
                                DEPARTMENT REVIEWS

REVIEWS ARE NOT MEANT TO BE AN ALL-INCLUSIVE LIST OF POSSIBLE COMMENTS OR
CONDITIONS.



Planning Division Review.

      1.     No Additional Comments

Engineering and Public Works Divisions Review.

      1.     The present and future requirements for transportation, traffic, water, sewer,
             and other utilities for the subject site do not appear to be detrimentally
             impacted as described. Given the location and proposed use, the use is not
             anticipated to generate a significant impact to water, sewer, or other
             potential utilities.

      2.     The number of trips generated by the home owner as the applicant and no
             employees with no customers visiting the residence will not have a
             detrimental impact to traffic in the area. The applicant indicated that
             customers will not visit the site and all products will be shipped. Based on the
             applicant’s statements, the potential for issues with traffic would be minimal
             unless the applicant were to receive frequent deliveries or pick-ups where
             the delivery vehicle blocked 13800 South. The capacity of the fronting public
             street, 13800 South which is a major collector street, is designed for
             significant traffic. Based on the description of the traffic generated by the
             business, the number of trips generated by the associated occupation is
             limited. Based on the statements of the applicant about no customers, no
             significant impact to traffic is anticipated with the proposed use.

      3.     The applicant indicated that all needed parking is available in the existing
             driveway. The subject home is located on a public major collector street. All
             proposed parking should be within the garage or driveway. Based on the
             information from the applicant, no significant impact to parking is
             anticipated with the proposed use.

      4.     The proposed use does not appear detrimental to the health, safety, or
             general welfare of the persons residing or working in the vicinity, or injurious
             to the property or improvements in the vicinity
Building Division Review.

       1.     No Additional Comments

Fire Division Review.

       1.     No Additional Comments
  EXHIBIT B
VICINITY MAP
 EXHIBIT C
AERIAL MAP
  EXHIBIT D
LAND USE MAP
 EXHIBIT E
ZONING MAP
EXHIBIT F
SITE PLAN
  EXHIBIT G
FLOOR PLANS
      EXHIBIT H
APPLICANT STATEMENTS
Please explain how you will meet the standards listed below. If it does not apply
explain why (N/A is not a valid response).
9-5-080(E:4) CONDITIONAL USE PERMITS
The following factors shall be reviewed and considered in determining whether a
conditional use permit application should be approved, approved with conditions, or
denied because reasonable conditions cannot be imposed to achieve compliance with
applicable standards:
a. The harmony and compliance of the proposed use with the objectives and
requirements of the city's general plan and this title;
   •   The proposed use will have no impact on the city’s general plan.
b. The suitability of the specific property for the proposed use;
   •   The property is the business owner’s home. The activity takes place in a small
       portion of that home. The activity is appropriate for a small indoor space.
c. Whether the proposed use or facility may be injurious to potential or existing
development in the vicinity;
   •   The proposed use will have no impact on the development of the area and will
       likely be completely unnoticed to anyone in the vicinity.
d. The economic impact of the proposed facility or use on the surrounding area;
   •   No economic impact is expected to the surrounding area.
e. The aesthetic impact of the proposed facility or use on the surrounding area;
   •   There will be no visual change to the surrounding area.
f. The safeguards proposed or provided to ensure adequate utilities, transportation
access, drainage, parking, loading space, lighting, screening, landscaping, open space,
fire protection, and pedestrian and vehicular circulation;
   •   No utility demand or traffic will occur as a result of this activity. The existing
       utilities for the residence are sufficient.
g. The safeguards provided or proposed to prevent noxious or offensive emissions
such as noise, glare, dust, pollutants and odor from the proposed facility or use;
   •   The activity produces no noise. No glare or other pollutants will impact anyone in
       the vicinity.
h. The impact of the proposed facility or use on the health, safety, and welfare of the
city, the area, and persons owning or leasing property in the area.
   •   There will be no impact on anyone owning or leasing property in the area.
Please explain how you will meet the standards listed below. If it does not apply
explain why (N/A is not a valid response). If you do not meet the standard, identify
that and explain how you intend to mitigate the impact.
9-34-040: DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS; PERMITTED USE:
The development standards set forth in this section shall apply to any home occupation
allowed as a permitted use:
A. Ownership: The home occupation shall be owned and operated by a person who
resides in the dwelling where the home occupation is located. Such person shall be the
primary provider of the labor, work, or service provided in the home occupation.
   •   Jared Jackson is both the owner of the business and of the residence. He does
       all of the business activity described in the application.
B. Business License: A business license for the home occupation shall be obtained
from and continually maintained with the city pursuant to title 6, chapter 11 of this code.
   •   This application is being undertaken specifically to get the business license
       described here. It is a precursor requirement for the license.
C. Employees: Members of the family of the owner who reside in the dwelling may be
employed in the home occupation. Nonfamily or nonresident employees shall be limited
to one person.
   •   There are currently no employees other than the owner.
D. Inspection: All facilities shall comply with fire, building, plumbing, electrical and all
other city, county, state and federal codes. Inspections during reasonable hours by city
officials may occur as necessary to assure compliance with regulations.
   •   All buildings on the property were built with the appropriate permits and were
       inspected by the city. Inspections by the city are fine as long as the family isn’t
       traveling at the time.
E. Inventory: No stock in trade, inventory, or other merchandise to exceed two hundred
fifty (250) square feet shall be kept on the premises. No outside storage is allowed.
(Ord. 909, 7-21-2009)
   •   Current inventory storage is in the shed building and takes up about 15 square
       feet.
F. Modification Of Structures Or Yards: There shall be no visible evidence from the
exterior of a dwelling that it is being used for any other purpose than that of a dwelling.
No activities shall be carried on outside the dwelling in the yard for the benefit of or
incidental to the home occupation. No front yard area shall be altered to provide parking
required for a home occupation. (Ord. 1132, 2-17-2015)
   •   The activity doesn’t require parking other than usual for the homeowners. No
       activity will take place outdoors.
G. Nuisance: Tools, items, equipment, or activities conducted within the dwelling which
is offensive or noxious by reason of the emission of odor, smoke, gas, vibration,
magnetic interference, or noise shall be prohibited.
   •   Nothing noticeable or offensive is produced by the activity.
H. Secondary Use: The home occupation shall be clearly incidental and secondary to
the primary use of the dwelling for residential purposes. The home occupation shall not
disrupt the normal residential character of the neighborhood in which the residence is
located. Not more than twenty five percent (25%) of the dwelling unit shall be used for
the home occupation.
   •   As shown in the provided floorplans, the activity uses far less than 25% of the
       building.
I. Signs: All signage in a residential area must comply with chapter 26, "Signs", of this
title.
   •   There are no signs for this activity.
J. Traffic, Parking, And Access: No home occupation use shall generate pedestrian,
parking, or vehicular traffic in excess of that customarily associated with the zone in
which the use is located. All parking shall be provided and maintained on site with
adequate provision for drop off traffic.
   •   The activity produces no traffic.
K. Vehicles: Other than the business owner's personal transportation, there shall be no
vehicles or equipment on the property associated with the home occupation which
would not normally be found at a residence. No signage for the home occupation shall
be allowed on vehicles.
   •   There are no vehicles associated with the business.
L. Yards: Yards surrounding the dwelling and accessory buildings shall not be used for
any activities or storage of any materials associated with the home occupation.
   •   No activity or storage occurs outside.
M. Customers: No customers allowed. Children accessing a limited daycare or limited
preschool facility shall not be considered customers.
   •   All customers of this business are online purchasers. None visit the residence.
N. Utility Demand: The home occupation shall not cause a demand for public utilities in
excess of that necessarily and customarily provided for residential uses.
   •   The business activity does not generate any noticeable utility usage. The
       electricity used is comparable to turning on one light bulb. No water or gas is
       used.
O. Main Structure: The home occupations shall be conducted, located, and contained
within the primary structure on the property. (Ord. 909, 7-21-2009)
   •   As shown in the application, the home office is the primary source of business
       activity.
P. Single-Family And Multiple-Family Dwellings: Home occupations listed as permitted
or conditional within this title may be permitted in a single-family or a multiple-family
dwelling, subject to the standards found within this section and section 9-34-060 of this
chapter. Businesses within multiple-family dwellings shall provide an approval letter
from the respective homeowners' association, or management company in the case of
apartments, if the business proposes any employees, customers or business vehicles.
(Ord. 1132, 2-17-2015)
   •   This is a single-family home.
Q. Licensure: Any home occupation involving childcare shall comply with all applicable
state and local laws and regulations regarding residential childcare, including, but not
limited to, provisions of the Utah child care licensing act, as set forth in Utah Code
Annotated section 26-39-101 et seq., as amended, and the residential certificate
childcare standards as set forth in the Utah administrative code section R430-50-1 et
seq., as amended. In addition, cottage food production operations are regulated and
inspected by the Utah department of agriculture. Any food related home occupation
under their jurisdiction must comply with these regulations. (Ord. 909, 7-21-2009)
   •   The activity does not include childcare.
Overview of Proposed Use

Applicant: Jared Jackson

Site: 1094 E 13800 S, Draper, UT

Date: Feb 10, 2025



Alpine Trails Studio, LLC is recently formed business entity owned by Jared Jackson and operating out his
residence. The primary activity of the business is to craft templates and tool accessories from 3mm or
6mm acrylic sheets cut using a laser cutting device, and to sell these products through an online store
(currently only Etsy.com).

This activity requires a space no larger than 5 foot by 10 foot, both for the residential style laser cutter
and the storage of materials.

No customers interact with the physical location of the building, as all sales happen online and products
are shipped directly to the customer.

This activity is not the primary source of income for Jared or his family, and the laser operations currently
average approximately one hour of use per day.

The activity is currently conducted in the existing shed building behind the house, and is easily relocated
as required.

No change to the lot or buildings is requested as a part of this application. There is no appreciable
impact to the neighborhood.
