MEMO
To: City Council
From: Paul Geilman
Date: 2025-08-19
Re: Public Hearing: Ordinance #1667


Comments:

This application is a request for approval of a Zoning Map Amendment for approximately
2.84 acres located on the east side of Minuteman Dr. at approximately 14193 S
Minuteman Dr. The property is currently zoned CO2. The applicant is requesting that a
Zoning Map Amendment be approved to allow for a Golf Simulator Business to operate
under the use Classification of Recreation and Entertainment, Indoor.

The Planning Commission reviewed this item at their July 31, 2025 meeting and
forwarded a positive recommendation for the application with a vote of 5-0.


Findings for Approval:

  1. The proposed zoning map amendment is consistent with goals, objectives, and
     policies of the city's general plan.
  2. The proposed zoning map amendment is harmonious with the overall character of
     existing development in the vicinity of the subject property.
  3. The proposed zoning map amendment is consistent with the standards of any
     applicable overlay zone.
  4. The proposed zoning map amendment will not adversely affect adjacent property.
  5. There are adequate facilities and services intended to serve the subject property,
     including, but not limited to, roadways, parks and recreation facilities, police and fire
     protection, schools, stormwater drainage systems, water supplies, and wastewater
     and refuse collection.




Findings for Denial:

  1. The proposed zoning map amendment is not consistent with goals, objectives, and
     policies of the city's general plan
  2. The proposed zoning map amendment is not harmonious with the overall character
     of existing development in the vicinity of the subject property.
  3. The proposed zoning map amendment will adversely affect adjacent property.
  4. There are not adequate facilities and services intended to serve the subject
     property, including, but not limited to, roadways, parks and recreation facilities,
     police and fire protection, schools, stormwater drainage systems, water supplies,
     and wastewater and refuse collection.




ATTACHMENTS:

Indigo Tech Center Zoning Map Amendment Ordinance #1667 v2.pdf
ATTACHMENTS:

Indigo_Tech_Center_ZMA_Staff_Report_-_Final.pdf
