MINUTES OF THE DRAPER CITY COUNCIL MEETING HELD ON TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER
16, 2025, IN THE DRAPER CITY COUNCIL CHAMBERS, 1020 EAST PIONEER ROAD,
DRAPER, UTAH

PRESENT:     Mayor Troy K. Walker, Councilmembers Mike Green (via Zoom), Bryn
             Heather Johnson, Tasha Lowery, Fred Lowry, and Marsha Vawdrey
EXCUSED:
STAFF:       Mike Barker, City Manager; Kellie Challburg, Assistant City Manager;
             Scott Cooley, City Engineer and Public Works Director; Spencer
             DuShane, Assistant City Attorney; Rich Ferguson, Chief of Police; Jennifer
             Jastremsky, Community Development Director; Linda Peterson,
             Communications Director; Nicole Smedley, City Recorder; Clint Smith,
             Fire Chief; Pam Stagg, Interim Human Resource Director; Jake Sorensen,
             Network Manager; Maryann Pickering, Planner; and Todd Draper,
             Planner.
______________________________________________________________________________________

Study Session

   Closed Session

   Councilmember Vawdrey moved to recess to a closed session to discuss a
   proposed development agreement. Councilmember T. Lowery seconded the
   motion.

   A roll call vote was taken. The motion passed unanimously.
                                        Yes No     Absent
   Councilmember Green                   X
   Councilmember Johnson                 X
   Councilmember T. Lowery               X
   Councilmember F. Lowry                X
   Councilmember Vawdrey                 X

   Council/Manager Reports
   This item was continued later in the evening.

Business Session

1. Call to Order by Mayor Troy K. Walker
                                                                             1|Page
        Draper City Council DRAFT Meeting Minutes – September 16, 2025
2. Pledge of Allegiance led by Pam Stagg

3. Oaths of Office
   Fire Chief Clint Smith recognized Battalion Chief Michael Shanahan, Captain Scott
   Wilson, and Paramedic Josh Owens for their promotions and introduced recently
   hired Paramedic Steve Larson. City Recorder Nicole Smedley administered the
   Oath of Office.

4. Public Comments
   No public comments were offered.

5. Consent Items
   5.a August 13, 2025 Truth in Taxation Meeting Minutes
   5.b August 26, 2025 Board of Canvassers Meeting Minutes
   5.c September 2, 2025 City Council Meeting Minutes
   5.d Resolution #25-48 appointing Derek Orth as Draper City Human Resources
       Director

       Councilmember Vawdrey motioned to approve the Consent Agenda.
       Councilmember Johnson seconded the motion.

       A roll call vote was taken. The motion passed unanimously.
                                         Yes No      Absent
       Councilmember Green                 X
       Councilmember Johnson               X
       Councilmember T. Lowery             X
       Councilmember F. Lowry              X
       Councilmember Vawdrey               X

6. Oath of Office
   New Human Resources Director Derek Orth introduced himself and stated he was
   looking forward to working with Draper City employees. City Recorder Nicole
   Smedley administered the Oath of Office.

7. Action Items
   7.a Resolution #25-46 approving an Interlocal Agreement with Point of the
       Mountain State Land Use Authority (POMSLA) regarding Public Infrastructure
       and Services


                                                                           2|Page
    Bruce Baird, Legal Counsel, thanked the Council for the opportunity to
    represent Draper on the Point of the Mountain State Land Use Authority
    matter. He explained that two agreements were before the Council for
    consideration: an Interlocal Cooperation Agreement for public
    infrastructure and a consultant agreement. Mr. Baird stated the consultant
    selected had previously worked with Draper and was recognized for
    producing high-quality work. He further stated he believed the proposed
    agreements represented the best outcome achievable at this time.

    Responding to a question from Councilmember Johnson, Mr. Baird stated
    the selection of the consultant was conducted in accordance with State
    procurement policy. He explained the proposed agreement committed the
    City to provide public services to the property but did not obligate the City
    to construct any specific infrastructure at any particular time, nor to
    provide any particularized level of service. Mr. Baird stated the agreement
    guaranteed Draper City would receive impact fees from the development.

    Mayor Walker stated POMSLA was the State entity responsible for
    developing the Point of the Mountain property. He stated the project would,
    in time, generate tax revenue and become a place of commerce,
    employment, learning, and opportunity. Mayor Walker commended Scott
    Cooley and his team for their continued involvement and work on the
    project from its inception.

    Councilmember Johnson moved to approve                  Resolution    #25-46.
    Councilmember F. Lowry seconded the motion.

    A roll call vote was taken. The motion passed unanimously.
                                      Yes No      Absent
    Councilmember Green                 X
    Councilmember Johnson               X
    Councilmember T. Lowery             X
    Councilmember F. Lowry              X
    Councilmember Vawdrey               X

7.b Resolution #25-47 approving a Consultant Agreement with Point of the
    Mountain State Land Use Authority and Methods Consulting



                                                                         3|Page
        Resolution #25-47 was discussed in conjunction with the previous agenda
        item.

        Councilmember T. Lowery moved to approve              Resolution   #25-47.
        Councilmember Vawdrey seconded the motion.

        A roll call vote was taken. The motion passed unanimously.
                                          Yes No      Absent
        Councilmember Green                 X
        Councilmember Johnson               X
        Councilmember T. Lowery             X
        Councilmember F. Lowry              X
        Councilmember Vawdrey               X

  7.c   Resolution #25-49 canceling the race for the 4-year At-Large City Council
        seats and certifying Tasha Lowery and Mike Green as elected
        City Manager Mike Barker requested that the Council continue Resolution
        #25-49 to the October 7 Council meeting due to a noticing issue.

        Councilmember F. Lowry moved to continue Resolution #25-49 to the
        October 7, 2025 meeting. Councilmember Johnson seconded the motion.

        A roll call vote was taken. The motion passed unanimously.
                                          Yes No      Absent
        Councilmember Green                 X
        Councilmember Johnson               X
        Councilmember T. Lowery             X
        Councilmember F. Lowry              X
        Councilmember Vawdrey               X

8. Items for Council Consideration
   8.a Public Hearing: Ordinances #1676 and #1677 amending the Land Use Map
        for approximately 7.6 acres from Residential Low/Medium Density to
        Residential Medium Density and an ordinance amending the Zoning Map for
        the same property from RA1 (Residential Agricultural) to R4 (Single-Family
        Residential) located at approximately 11775 S. 700 West, known as the
        Goodrich Pointe Land Use and Zoning Map Amendments
        Maryann Pickering, Planner, presented a map of the subject property and
        explained the property currently contained one residence. She presented

                                                                           4|Page
the proposed rezone from RA1 (one-acre minimum) to R4 (quarter-acre
minimum) and reported that staff had received a total of three public
comments, all in opposition to the project.

Applicant Presentation
Alan Prince, partnership owner purchasing the property, stated the project
represented three years of work with the Goodrich Family. He stated R4 was
becoming an increasingly common zone in the area and that the planned
template for the proposed project had been used in other projects. Mr.
Prince reported the total acreage involved in the assemblage was 8.7 acres.
He stated the current density in the General Plan for the area was two
residential units per acre, allowing a total of 17.5 units under the present
zoning. Mr. Prince emphasized the proposed layout would not increase the
currently permitted total density. He explained the proposed layout included
two structures in two development phases, with eventual removal of the
existing unit.

Council Questions
Responding to a question from the Council, Mr. Prince stated the R4 Zone
was requested because the allowed frontages, square footages, and other
guidelines were suited to the shape of the project. He stated the total project
would not exceed the present density of 17 units and that the lots would
conform to R4 requirements. Mr. Prince presented a conceptual layout and
stated the proposed lots were all one-third acre or larger in size.

Mayor Walker opened the public hearing.

Public Hearing
Leroy Larsen, Draper resident, stated he would welcome the change but
expressed concern regarding high traffic speeds and the lack of sidewalks on
700 West. He described traffic calming measures he had observed in other
areas.

Sherry Shelice Gleave, 1042 East Fort Union Boulevard #378, Midvale,
requested that the matter be paused for a few months. She stated she had
attempted to contact the property owners about purchasing a portion of the
property to accommodate four horses and a barn. Ms. Gleave stated she
anticipated having access to funds closer to Christmas and reiterated her
request to pause the matter.

                                                                     5|Page
Diane Brightling, Draper resident, suggested perhaps the reason more
residents had not attended the meeting was that they did not feel heard. She
stated she had hoped her neighborhood on the west side would feel more
integrated into Draper over time, but it had not. Ms. Brightling expressed
concerns about traffic speeds and heavy traffic at certain times of day. She
further stated she did not understand why additional road improvements
had not been made. Ms. Brightling commented that the proposed change
from one-acre lots to quarter-acre lots appeared drastic.

Justin Fry, Draper resident, expressed support for the proposed project and
stated he hoped the request would be approved. He stated he looked
forward to purchasing a lot for himself and a lot next door for his mother.

Mayor Walker closed the pubic hearing.

Council Discussion
Councilmember T. Lowery stated she had concerns about changing the
identity of the neighborhood away from large agricultural property. She
stated the change from RA1 to R4 appeared drastic and that she would be
more comfortable with a change to half-acre lots. Councilmember T. Lowery
further stated there would be no guarantee the developer would maintain
the proposed lot sizes without a development agreement.

Councilmember F. Lowry stated he shared Councilmember T. Lowery’s
concerns and expressed that he would be more comfortable with a
development agreement.

Councilmember F. Lowry stated there was no question that 700 West needed
to be addressed.

Public Works Director Scott Cooley stated his staff had prepared a plan,
which he had not yet reviewed, that would add a sidewalk to one side of 700
West along with other improvements.

Mayor Walker stated he recalled a year when the Council funded full
improvements to 700 West, but residents had approached the City and
requested that the improvements not be made.

                                                                   6|Page
        Applicant Response
        Mr. Prince stated he and his colleague had developed over 100 one-acre lots
        in the Salt Lake Valley and noted he did not believe a single one of those
        properties contained a horse. He stated he would be willing to enter into a
        development agreement. Mr. Prince reiterated the present land use allowed
        two units per acre and stated he had no intention of exceeding the currently
        allowed density. He agreed that frontage on 700 West would need to be
        improved, including the addition of a sidewalk. Mr. Prince stated he did not
        know how to proceed with the project at a density lower than currently
        allowed. He further stated there were no horses on the site and that no
        horse would be displaced by the project.

        Council Discussion (continued)
        Councilmember T. Lowery stated she did not believe there was support for
        quarter-acre lots.

        Councilmember Green stated he did not see any reason to change the zone.

        Councilmember F. Lowry stated he believed there was still a need and
        interest for horse property in the area.

       Councilmember T. Lowery moved to deny Ordinances #1676 and #1677.
       Councilmember Johnson seconded the motion.

       A roll call vote was taken. The motion to deny passed unanimously.
                                         Yes No       Absent
       Councilmember Green                 X
       Councilmember Johnson               X
       Councilmember T. Lowery             X
       Councilmember F. Lowry              X
       Councilmember Vawdrey               X

Council/Manager Reports (continued from Study Session)
Tree Removals on Timoney Road
Councilmember F. Lowry requested an update on tree removals on Timoney Road.
Staff reported a State Forester had walked the area and would provide a
recommendation. Staff further stated the intent was to provide an option for those
who wished to preserve the trees.



                                                                           7|Page
Parking Study
Ms. Jastremsky reported a parking study had been submitted by Sports City and
would be reviewed by staff.

  8.b Adjournment
       Councilmember Green moved to adjourn the meeting. Councilmember T.
       Lowery seconded the motion, which passed by unanimous vote.

       The meeting adjourned at 8:35 pm.




                                                                    8|Page
