                                 Development Review Committee
                                     1020 East Pioneer Road
                                       Draper, UT 84020
                                           May 29, 2025

To:             Draper City Planning Commission
                Business Date: June 12, 2025

From:           Development Review Committee

Prepared By: Nick Whittaker, MCMP, Planner II
             Planning Division
             Community Development Department
             801-576-6522, Nick.Whittaker@draperutah.gov

Re:     SolMotion Manual Therapy – Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit Request
        Application No.: 2024-0446-USE
        Applicant:        Cristine Pena, representing SolMotion Manual Therapy
        Project Location: 1858 E. Harvest Oaks Cir.
        Current Zoning: RM (Multiple Dwelling Unit Residential) Zone, South Mountain
                          Development Agreement.
        Acreage:          0.28 Acres (Approximately 12,197 ft2).
        Request:          Request for approval of an Home Occupation Conditional Use
                          Permit in the RM zone and South Mountain Development
                          Agreement to operate a Personal Care Services Business which
                          provides manual therapy.



BACKGROUND AND SUMMARY

This application is a request for approval of a Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit for
approximately 0.28 acres located on the south side of Harvest Oaks Cir. at approximately
1858 E. Harvest Oaks Cir. (Exhibit B & C). The property is currently zoned RM and is part of
the South Mountain Development Agreement. The applicant is requesting that a Home
Occupation Conditional Use Permit be approved to allow for a Personal Care Services
Business which provides manual therapy.

The subject property is lot number 50 of the Canyon Oak Subdivision, Phase 2. The single-
family residence on the property was built in 2011.




SolMotion Manual Therapy Home Occupation                             App. 2024-0446-USE
Conditional Use Permit Request                  1
ANALYSIS

General Plan and Zoning.

 Table 1                  General Plan and Zoning Designations                     Exhibit
 Existing Land Use        Residential Medium Density                               Exhibit D
 Current Zoning           RM, South Mountain Agreement                             Exhibit E
 Adjacent Zoning
    East                  RM, South Mountain Agreement
    West                  RM, South Mountain Agreement
    North                 RM, South Mountain Agreement
    South                 RSD – 2 – Corner Canyon Vista (Residential Special
                          District)

The Residential Medium Density land use designation is characterized as follows:




SolMotion Manual Therapy Home Occupation                                App. 2024-0446-USE
Conditional Use Permit Request                   2
According to the 1999 Draper City Municipal Code (DCMC) Section 9-8-020 the purpose of
the RM zone is to “provide areas for low-to-medium residential density with the
opportunity for varied housing styles and character, providing for a maximum density of up
to twelve (12) units per acre for medium to high density residential unit projects subject to
conditional-use permit procedures and conditions for this type of use and based on
minimum development guidelines adopted by the City.”

Home Occupation. The 1999 DCMC, Subsections 9-4-140(a) and (b) outline development
standards applicable to home occupations in this area. Those criteria, along with
information specific to the subject request, are as follows:

Section 9-4-140 Home Occupations.

    (a) Notwithstanding other sections of this Title, a home occupation shall be considered
        a permitted use in any residential, multiple family and agriculture zone if the
        proposed use meets all of the following conditions:

            (1)       The home occupation is a home office, beauty salon, pre-school or day
                      care business, as regulated by the State of Utah.

                     A personal care service which provides licensed massage therapy is not
                      one of the specific business types listed as permitted, but can be allowed
                      through the issuance of a conditional use permit per the 1999 DCMC
                      Subsection 9-4-140(b).

            (2)       The business is owned and operated by the resident of the home.

                     The applicant is a resident of the home and is the sole operator of the
                      home occupation (Exhibit H).

            (3)       No employees, other than residents of the home, utilize the facility.

                     The applicant is the only one employed in the proposed home occupation
                      (Exhibit H).

            (4)       For beauty salon, pre-school or day care business, the hours of operation
                      do not begin before 7 a.m. or extend beyond 8 p.m.

                     The applicant indicates that the hours of operation shall be from 9:00
                      a.m. to 8:00 p.m.

            (5)       A business license is obtained from, and continually maintained with the
                      City.



SolMotion Manual Therapy Home Occupation                                  App. 2024-0446-USE
Conditional Use Permit Request                    3
                     The applicant has applied for a business license with Draper City and
                      license issuance is pending approval of this Conditional Use Permit
                      (Exhibit H).

            (6)       All facilities are inspected by the Fire Department prior to initial use and
                      meet Fire Department standards at all times.

                     The applicant has indicated their intent to comply with this and that the
                      business will allow any required inspections (Exhibit H).

            (7)       All drop-off or customer parking is accommodated on paved portions of
                      the property.

                     Customers visiting the home have access to an off-street parking stall
                      located on the existing paved driveway (Exhibits F & H).

    (b) Any home occupation which does not meet the provisions outlined above shall be
        processed as a Conditional Use in accordance with Section 9-2-104 of this Title.

                     This application is for the required Conditional Use Permit.

Criteria For Approval.
The criteria for review and potential approval of a conditional use permit request under the
1999 DCMC are found in Subsections 9-2-104(e) and (f). These sections depict the standard
of review for such requests as:

1999 DCMC 9-2-104
   (e) Requirements. The Planning Commission may permit it a conditional use to be
       located within any district in which the particular conditional use is allowed by the
       use regulations of this Title, and may impose such requirements and conditions as
       are necessary or desirable for the protection of adjacent properties and the public
       welfare. The Planning Commission shall not authorize a conditional use permit
       unless the evidence presented is such to establish that:
          (1)    The proposed use will not, under the circumstances of the particular
                 case, be detrimental to the health, safety, or general welfare of persons
                 residing or working in the vicinity, or injurious to property or
                 improvements in the vicinity;
          (2)    The proposed use of the particular location is necessary or desirable to
                 provide a service or facility which will contribute to the general well-being
                 of the neighborhood and the community; and
          (3)    The proposed use will comply with regulations and conditions specified in
                 this Title for such use and to the intent of the City General Plan.



SolMotion Manual Therapy Home Occupation                                    App. 2024-0446-USE
Conditional Use Permit Request                     4
    (f)   Factors. The following factors shall be reviewed and considered by the Planning
          Commission in determining whether a conditional use permit application should be
          approved, denied, or approved with conditions.
            (1)     The harmony and compliance of the proposed use with the objectives
                    and requirements of the City General Plan and Zoning Ordinances.
            (2)     The suitability of the specific property for the proposed use.
            (3)     The development or lack of development adjacent to the proposed site
                    and the harmony of the proposed use with the existing uses in the
                    neighborhood.
            (4)     Whether or not the proposed use or facility may be injurious to potential
                    or existing development within the vicinity.
            (5)     The economic impact of the proposed facility or use on the surrounding
                    area.
            (6)     The aesthetic impact of the proposed facility or use on the surrounding
                    area.
            (7)     Whether or not the proposed use or facility is necessary or desirable to
                    the City.
            (8)     The number of other similar conditional uses in the area and the public
                    need for the proposed conditional use.
            (9)     The present and future requirements for transportation, traffic, water,
                    sewer, and other utilities, for the proposed site and surrounding area.
            (10) The safeguards proposed or provided to insure adequate utilities,
                    transportation access, drainage, parking, loading space, lighting,
                    screening, landscaping, open space, fire protection, and pedestrian and
                    vehicular circulation.
            (11) The safeguards provided or proposed to prevent noxious or offensive
                    omissions such as noise, glare, dust, pollutants and odor from the
                    proposed facility or use.
            (12) The safeguards provided or proposed to minimize other adverse effects
                    from the proposed facility or use on persons or property in the area.
            (13) The impact of the proposed facility or use on the health, safety, and
                    welfare of the City, the area, and persons owning or leasing property in
                    the area.
            (14) The appropriateness and compatibility of the proposed use with the use
                    tables set forth in this Title for the zone in which the property is located.

Staff has reviewed the applicants request and provided documentation regarding the
home occupation. The home occupation provides manual therapy which the applicant
describes as, “a modality of massage therapy which promotes self-healing”. The applicant
also holds a State License as a Massage Therapist. Services are provided in a room that
measures approximately 155 ft2 (Exhibits G & H).




SolMotion Manual Therapy Home Occupation                                 App. 2024-0446-USE
Conditional Use Permit Request                  5
Staff notes that a potential negative impact with regards to neighborhood traffic exists due
to clients coming to the home. A parking stall located on the east side of the driveway will
be reserved as off-street parking for client vehicles (Exhibits F & H). Clients will schedule
appointments in advance by phone or online. Appointments are scheduled for one client at
a time and only within the hours of operation which are Monday through Saturday,
between the hours of 9:00 am to 8:00 pm. The duration of an appointment depends on the
service requested which can range between twenty (20) minutes to two-hundred (200)
minutes.

Staff notes that the negative impacts are sufficiently mitigated as all clients are seen one at
a time, by appointment only, and scheduled in advance (Exhibit H). In addition, the off-
street parking stall located on the existing driveway mitigates potential impacts from
parking on the neighborhood streets. The proposed parking space will not impede access
to the parking stalls necessary to meet the minimum parking requirements of ordinance
for the primary residence. Staff has incorporated the proposed mitigation measures into
the suggested conditions for approval.



REVIEWS

Planning Division Review. The Draper City Planning Division has completed their review of
the Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit submission. Comments from this division, if
any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Engineering and Public Works Divisions Review. The Draper City Engineering and Public
Works Divisions have completed their reviews of the Home Occupation Conditional Use
Permit submission. Comments from these divisions, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Building Division Review. The Draper City Building Division has completed their review of
the Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit submission. Comments from this division, if
any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Fire Division Review. The Draper City Fire Marshal has completed his review of the Home
Occupation Conditional Use Permit submission. Comments from this division, if any, can be
found in Exhibit A.

Noticing. Notice has been properly issued in the manner outlined in the City and State
Codes.



STAFF RECOMMENDATION

Staff recommends that the Planning Commission review the request based on the findings



SolMotion Manual Therapy Home Occupation                                App. 2024-0446-USE
Conditional Use Permit Request                 6
and criteria for approval, or denial as listed within the staff report. The Planning
Commission should also review the request, hear from the applicant, and receive public
comment prior to making a decision.

If the Planning Commission decides to approve the request, staff recommends they include
the following conditions of approval:

        1.      That all requirements of the Draper City Engineering, Public Works, Building,
                Planning, and Fire Divisions are satisfied.
        2.      That a Draper City business license shall be obtained and maintained by the
                business owner for as long as the business remains in operation.
        3.      That all customers coming to the home shall be by appointment only
                between the hours of 9:00 am and 8:00 pm, Monday through Saturday.
        4.      That only one (1) customer shall be at the property at a time.
        5.      That all customers coming to the home shall park in the off-street parking
                stall on the driveway as shown on the approved site plan.
        6.      That the applicant be the sole provider of Massage Therapy services from the
                property and that their required State Professional license continue to be
                maintained in good standing.


MODEL MOTIONS AND FINDINGS

Sample Motion for Approval – I move that we approve the Home Occupation Conditional
Use Permit, as requested by Cristine Pena representing SolMotion Manual Therapy,
application 2024-0446-USE, based on the following findings for approval, the criteria for
approval, and subject to the conditions listed in the Staff Report dated May 29, 2025.

Findings for approval:

        1. The proposed use will not be detrimental to the health, safety or general warfare
           of persons residing or working in the vicinity, or will be injurious to property or
           improvements in the vicinity.
        2. The propose use is necessary or desirable to provide a service or facility which
           will contribute to the general well-being of the neighborhood and the
           community.
        3. The proposed use complies with the regulations and conditions specified in
           Section 9-4-104 of the 1999 DCMC for home occupations.
        4. The proposal complies with the standards for approval found in the 1999 DCMC,
           Subsection 9-2-104(e) including the regulations in Section 9-4-104 of and
           potential negative impacts to adjacent properties and the public welfare are
           mitigated through the imposition of reasonable conditions necessary or
           desirable for the protection of the same.



SolMotion Manual Therapy Home Occupation                               App. 2024-0446-USE
Conditional Use Permit Request                 7
I move that we approve the Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit, as requested by
Cristine Pena representing, SolMotion Manual Therapy, application 2024-0446-USE, based
on the findings for approval, the criteria for approval, and subject to the conditions listed in
the Staff Report dated May 29, 2025 and as modified by the following additional findings or
conditions:

        1. (List any additional findings…)
        2. (List any additional conditions…)

Sample Motion for Denial – I move that we deny the Home Occupation Conditional Use
Permit, as requested by Cristine Pena representing, SolMotion Manual Therapy, application
2024-0446-USE, based on the following findings for denial, and the criteria for denial, as
listed in the Staff Report dated May 29, 2025.

Findings for denial:

    1. The proposed use will be detrimental to the health, safety or general warfare of
       persons residing or working in the vicinity, or will be injurious to property or
       improvements in the vicinity.
    2. The propose use is not necessary or desirable to provide a service or facility which
       will contribute to the general well-being of the neighborhood and the community.
    3. The proposed use does not comply with one or more of the regulations or
       conditions specified in Section 9-4-104 of the 1999 DCMC for home occupations.
    4. The proposal does not comply with the standards for approval found in the 1999
       DCMC, Subsection 9-2-104(e) including the regulations in Section 9-4-104 of and
       potential negative impacts to adjacent properties and the public welfare are
       mitigated through the imposition of reasonable conditions necessary or desirable
       for the protection of the same.




SolMotion Manual Therapy Home Occupation                                App. 2024-0446-USE
Conditional Use Permit Request                 8
                   DEVELOPMENT REVIEW COMMITTEE ACKNOWLEDGEMENT


We, the undersigned, as duly appointed members of the Draper City Development Review
Committee, do acknowledge that the application which provides the subject for this staff
report has been reviewed by the Committee and has been found to be appropriate for
review by the Draper City Planning Commission and/or City Council.

                                                                                                     DigitaJjystgnod Qy Todd A.
                        Digitally signed by Brian Maxlield                                           Draper
                        DN:C-US,                                                                     DN: C=US,
                                                                                                     E-tOdd dr^er^draper.ut ue,
 Brien Maxfield O-Oraper, OU-Publie WorHs ●
                          bnen.maxiipid@draperutah.gov,
                                                                                Todd A. Draper O-DraperCity Planning,
                        Engirtoorlng, CN>8rien Uaxticid                                             CNeTpdd A. Draper
                                                                                                     □aw: 2026.06 02
                        Date: 2025.OS.02 12:46:56-06'00'
                                                                                                     12.5A39-0KC11:


Draper City Public Works Department                                       Draper City Planning Division


                          Oigttail^ signed by Don B*jck1ey
                          DN: C«LfS, E-don.buckley^d/apeMftua, 0-Draper

Don Buckley               Ct(y Fire DdOdrtmsnl. OU-Ftre Maraha^, CK-Don
                          Buek»y
                          Hate          ]2-


Draper City Fire Department
                         Digitally signed by Matthew Symes
                         DN:C-US,
                         E.matl.symes@draRerutah.gov,
 Matthew Symes           O=0taper City Corp., CN.WatlhGW
                         Symos
                         Date: 2025.06.02 14:23;48-06'00'



Draper City Building Division
                                      EXHIBIT A
                                 DEPARTMENT REVIEWS

REVIEWS ARE NOT MEANT TO BE AN ALL INCLUSIVE LIST OF POSSIBLE COMMENTS OR
CONDITIONS.



Planning Division Review.

   1. No Additional Comments.

Engineering and Public Works Divisions Review.

   1. The present and future requirements for transportation, traffic, water, sewer, and
      other utilities for the subject site do not appear to be detrimentally impacted as
      described. Given the location and proposed use, the use is not anticipated to
      generate a significant impact to water, sewer, or other potential utilities.

   2. The number of trips generated by the home owner as the applicant and no
      employees with customers limited to one at a time visiting the residence by
      appointment only will not have a detrimental impact to traffic in the area. Based on
      the applicant’s statements, the potential for issues with traffic would be minimal.
      The capacity of the fronting public street, Harvest Oaks Circle is a dead-end
      residential street, with limited capacity, is designed for typical neighborhood traffic.
      Based on the description of the traffic generated by the business, the number of
      trips generated by the associated occupation and customers is limited and does not
      impact current traffic loads on the street. Based on the statements of the applicant
      about limited customers to appointment times, no significant impact to traffic is
      anticipated with the proposed use.

   3. The applicant indicated that all needed parking is available in the existing driveway.
      The subject home is located on a public residential street. Presently, on-street
      parking is permitted on Harvest Oaks Circle. Should on-street parking become an
      issue such as during inclement weather or excessive on-street parking in the vicinity,
      then the city could limit or eliminate parking on the public street, thereby requiring
      all customers park on the concrete pad, accessed from the alley. Based on the
      information from the applicant that any customers will park on the existing
      driveway, no significant impact to parking is anticipated with the proposed use.

   4. The proposed use does not appear detrimental to the health, safety, or general
      welfare of the persons residing or working in the vicinity, or injurious to the
      property or improvements in the vicinity
Building Division Review.

   1. No Additional Comments.

Fire Division Review.

   1. No Additional Comments.
  EXHIBIT B
VICINITY MAP
EXHIBIT C
ARIEL MAP
  EXHIBIT D
LAND USE MAP
 EXHIBIT
  XHIBIT E
ZONING MAP
EXHIBIT
 XHIBIT F
SITE PLAN
Clients parking spot measures greater than 9X18.
 EXHIBIT G
FLOOR PLAN
This is the room for
     SolMotion
    155 square feet
              EXHIBIT H
APPLICANT STATEMENTS AND RESPONSES
Analysis of Home Occupation Standards Deviation

The only standard that SolMotion Manual Therapy/ Cristine Pena is deviating from is
having Customers over to the house. One customer at a time.



       Ownership: The home occupation shall be owned and operated by a person who
       resides in the dwelling where the home occupation is located. Such person shall be the
       primary provider of the labor, work, or service provided in the home occupation.
       --My husband Branny Pena and I, Cristine Pena are the Trust Grantors for our home,
       that we reside in. Amella Pena is the only Trustee and signed the affidavit. We have
       lived at 1858 E Harvest Oaks Circle, 14 years. I, Cristine Pena, am the only
       laborer/service provider for SolMotion.

      Business License: A business license for the home occupation shall be obtained from and
       continually maintained with the city pursuant to title 6, chapter 11 of this code.

       --I will meet this standard. I am working on obtaining this.

      Employees: Members of the family of the owner who reside in the dwelling may be
       employed in the home occupation. Nonfamily or nonresident employees shall be limited
       to one person.

       --I will meet this standard. I won’t have employees, If that changes it will be limited to
       one person non family/non resident.

      Inspection: All facilities shall comply with fire, building, plumbing, electrical and all other
       city, county, state and federal codes. Inspections during reasonable hours by city
       officials may occur as necessary to assure compliance with regulations.—

       I will Meet this standard. I allow any inspections.

       Inventory: No stock in trade, inventory, or other merchandise to exceed two hundred
       fifty (250) square feet shall be kept on the premises. No outside storage is allowed.
       (Ord. 909, 7-21-2009)-

       -- I will meet this standard. I don’t need stock in trade, inventory or other merchandise
       to exceed 250 sqft.
   Modification Of Structures Or Yards: There shall be no visible evidence from the exterior
    of a dwelling that it is being used for any other purpose than that of a dwelling. No
    activities shall be carried on outside the dwelling in the yard for the benefit of or
    incidental to the home occupation. No front yard area shall be altered to provide
    parking required for a home occupation. (Ord. 1132, 2-17-2015)

    --I will meet this standard. I will only used my designated room for this business.

   Nuisance: Tools, items, equipment, or activities conducted within the dwelling which is
    offensive or noxious by reason of the emission of odor, smoke, gas, vibration, magnetic
    interference, or noise shall be prohibited.

    –I will meet this standard. This modality is very quiet.

   Secondary Use: The home occupation shall be clearly incidental and secondary to the
    primary use of the dwelling for residential purposes. The home occupation shall not
    disrupt the normal residential character of the neighborhood in which the residence is
    located. Not more than twenty five percent (25%) of the dwelling unit shall be used for
    the home occupation.

    I meet this standard. The business will use much less that 25%.

   Signs: All signage in a residential area must comply with chapter 26, "Signs", of this title.

    I will comply with all Signage in residential area. I don’t have any signs.

   Traffic, Parking, And Access: No home occupation use shall generate pedestrian,
    parking, or vehicular traffic in excess of that customarily associated with the zone in
    which the use is located. All parking shall be provided and maintained on site with
    adequate provision for drop off traffic.

     –I have one stall in my driveway designated for the business. There is no need for more.
    There will be no impact of the neighborhood. This is zoned for residential and will
    continue to look residential.

   Vehicles: Other than the business owner's personal transportation, there shall be no
    vehicles or equipment on the property associated with the home occupation which
    would not normally be found at a residence. No signage for the home occupation shall
    be allowed on vehicles.

    This standard is met. No signage or business vehicles are used.
   Yards: Yards surrounding the dwelling and accessory buildings shall not be used for any
    activities or storage of any materials associated with the home occupation.

    This standard is met. No need for yard usage.

   Customers: No customers allowed. Children accessing a limited daycare or limited
    preschool facility shall not be considered customers. –
This is the deviation I am requesting. It will still look residential because its one client at a
time. One car at a time.


   Utility Demand: The home occupation shall not cause a demand for public utilities in
    excess of that necessarily and customarily provided for residential uses.
    This standard is met. No extra utilities are used.

   Main Structure: The home occupations shall be conducted, located, and contained
    within the primary structure on the property. (Ord. 909, 7-21-2009)

    -This standard is met.

   Single-Family And Multiple-Family Dwellings: Home occupations listed as permitted or
    conditional within this title may be permitted in a single-family or a multiple-family
    dwelling, subject to the standards found within this section and section 9-34-060 of this
    chapter. Businesses within multiple-family dwellings shall provide an approval letter
    from the respective homeowners' association, or management company in the case of
    apartments, if the business proposes any employees, customers or business vehicles.
    (Ord. 1132, 2-17-2015)

    – This standard is met. It’s a single family home.

   Licensure: Any home occupation involving childcare shall comply with all applicable
    state and local laws and regulations regarding residential childcare, including, but not
    limited to, provisions of the Utah child care licensing act, as set forth in Utah Code
    Annotated section 26-39-101 et seq., as amended, and the residential certificate
    childcare standards as set forth in the Utah administrative code section R430-50-1 et
    seq., as amended. In addition, cottage food production operations are regulated and
    inspected by the Utah department of agriculture. Any food related home occupation
    under their jurisdiction must comply with these regulations. (Ord. 909, 7-21-2009)

    I comply with all of these standards. The health department has approved my home.
SolMotion Manual Therapy - proposed use at home occupation conditional use will only be
Cristine Pena and one client at a time, Monday through Saturday, between the hours of 9am to
8pm. Each appointment may last between 20 min to 200 min. The appointments are scheduled
by phone and internet. The business will provide manual therapy within the scope of a massage
therapist. It’s a very quiet modality. One parking stall is needed and will be located in front of
the 2 car garage on the east side of the driveway. There will be no employees. There will be no
noise or effects on the adjacent properties and neighborhood, as it is one client at a time, and
very quiet. No site improvements will be made. One parking stall will be used at a time.
Between 0 and 8 clients per day.

Clients parking spot measures greater than 9X18.




*****Manual therapy is a modality within the scope of massage therapy. It involves relaxing
muscles and tissues to promote self-healing.
