                     DEVELOPMENT CONSULTANT AGREEMENT

        THIS DEVELOPMENT CONSULTANT AGREEMENT (this “Agreement”), made this
16th day of September, 2025, by and between the CITY OF DRAPER, a municipal corporation
created under the laws of the State of Utah (“City”), POINT OF THE MOUNTAIN STATE LAND
AUTHORITY, an independent entity of the State of Utah (“POMSLA”), and [METHODS
Consulting], a [?] (“Consultant”). City, POMSLA, and Consultant may be jointly referred to
herein as the “Parties” and individually as a “Party.”

                                          RECITALS

       WHEREAS, the State of Utah (the “State”) is the fee simple owner of approximately six
hundred (600) acres of real property located within the City, commonly known as the “Point of
the Mountain” (the “Project”), as more fully described in Exhibit A attached hereto and
incorporated herein by reference.

        WHEREAS, The Project is located within the City which is responsible for providing
certain public services to the Project and for accepting and, thereafter operating and maintaining
certain public infrastructure, while POMSLA is the designated land use authority for the Project
and is responsible for the planning, management, and implementation of the development of the
Project.

        WHEREAS, the City and POMSLA are parties to that certain Interlocal Cooperation
Agreement dated [DATE] (“Interlocal Agreement”), whereby the City and POMSLA agree to,
among other things, hire the Consultant to perform certain duties related to the Project. Any
capitalized term used but not otherwise defined herein shall have the meaning ascribed to such
term in the Interlocal Agreement. The Interlocal Agreement is attached hereto as Exhibit “B”.

        WHEREAS the City and POMSLA desire to engage Consultant as an independent
contractor to provide the Services (defined below) to the City and POMSLA, which Services
Consultant has agreed to provide to the City and POMSLA, on the terms and conditions set forth
in this Agreement.

                                        AGREEMENT

        NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the foregoing recitals, which are incorporated
herein by this reference, and the mutual covenants and promises set forth herein, the receipt and
sufficiency of which the Parties hereby acknowledge, the Parties agree as follows:

        1.      EXTENT OF AGREEMENT AND SCOPE OF WORK. The Consultant’s
services under this Agreement (the “Services”) are to serve as the Development Consultant as
described in the Interlocal Agreement and as summarized in the attached Exhibit “C”. If there is
any conflict between Exhibit “B” and the Interlocal Agreement then the Interlocal Agreement shall
control.

        2.     TIME FOR SERVICES. The Consultant shall complete the Services in a manner
to achieve any milestones identified by the City and POMSLA. Without limiting the generality of
the foregoing, Consultant shall begin work on the Services within a reasonable time after receiving
a request from the City and/or POMSLA. Upon receiving such request, Consultant will promptly
notify the City and POMSLA of the anticipated completion time for the Service and will work to
meet that timeline. Consultant understands and agrees that time is of the essence in the performance
and completion of the Services. In the event Consultant requests a Certification in order to provide
a Verification, POMSLA shall use best efforts to cause its third party consultants, including its
engineers, to provide such Certification to Consultant within thirty (30) days of receipt of
Consultant’s request for such Certification.

       3.      PAYMENT.

              3.1     In accordance with the provisions and considerations set forth in this
Agreement, the total compensation payable to Consultant by POMSLA for the Services shall be
an amount not to exceed [Dollars ($ )] (“Consultant Payment”), which amount shall be paid in
accordance with the billing rates set forth in Exhibit C attached hereto and incorporated herein by
reference. The Consultant Payment may be changed only by written authorization from the City
and POMSLA.

               3.2     Incidental Services/Reimbursements. Consultant shall provide all
Services as established by standard professional custom and practice. Subject to POMSLA’s
discretion, Consultant reimbursements for the Services may include the following (with no mark-
up):

                       (a)    Travel/Lodging/Meals. In the event Consultant’s distance of travel
from Consultant’s office to the Project is greater than one hundred (100) miles, and further subject
to the following limitations:

                               (i)    Travel. Flights shall be coach on commercial airlines.
Personal vehicle use will be reimbursed at the current federally allowed reimbursement rate per
mile. For incidental travel (taxi, bus, airport long term parking only, and other ground
transportation), Consultant shall submit to POMSLA an original receipt for each item (tips for taxi,
baggage, etc. are not reimbursable);

                               (ii)    Lodging. Lodging may be booked through the State and will
be reimbursed at either the actual cost or the State rate (whichever is less). Tips for baggage, maid
service, doormen, etc. are not reimbursable. The State rates are located on the [U.S. General
Services Administration website (https://www.gsa.gov/travel/plan-book/per-diem-rates)]
(“Travel Website”);

                               (iii)    Meals.
                                        (1)    For in-State travel, meal per diems are allowed at
the State rate as identified on the Travel Website;

                                      (2)     If Consultant is traveling from out-of-State, meal
per diems are allowed at the State rate as identified on the Travel Website.
                       (b)    Miscellaneous. Consultant shall submit to POMSLA original
invoices for any other costs incurred in connection with the Services (e.g. express mail, photos,
long distance calls). Any exceptions to this Section must be approved by in writing by POMSLA.

               3.3    Progress Payments. POMSLA agrees to pay Consultant from time to time
for the Services, provided, however, POMSLA shall not be required to remit payment to
Consultant more than once per calendar month after the date of the notice to proceed, and only
upon receipt from Consultant of an invoice containing sufficient detail to justify the amount of
payment requested. Payment shall be made within thirty (30) days of POMSLA’s receipt of the
Consultant’s invoice, except that this requirement shall not apply to any amount: (a) for which
Consultant’s invoice does not provide sufficient detail to demonstrate the amount due; (b) that
POMSLA disputes is due under the terms of this Agreement; or (c) reasonably withheld by
POMSLA to cover any default or failure to perform by Consultant. POMSLA shall provide written
notice to Consultant of any adjustment to or rejection of Consultant’s invoice, with a copy to the
City.

                 3.4      Interest for Late Payment. Except as otherwise provided by law, if any
payment is late based upon the provisions of this Agreement, Consultant shall be paid interest in
an amount equal to the published Wall Street Journal prime rate plus two percent (2%). The
published Wall Street Journal Prime Rate shall be determined using such rate that is published
closest to the first (1st) of the month for each month of the late period. The amount of payment of
interest shall be apportioned using such rate(s) for the late period.

                3.5      Final Payment. The acceptance by Consultant of final payment without a
written protest filed with both the City and POMSLA within three (3) calendar days of receipt of
final payment, shall release the City and POMSLA from all claims and all liability to Consultant
related to the Services. Notwithstanding anything in this Agreement to the contrary, approval or
payment by the City or POMSLA shall not (a) constitute nor be deemed a release of the
responsibility and liability of Consultant, its employees, subcontractors, agents, or consultants for
the accuracy and quality of the Services, or (b) imply that the City or POMSLA assumes any
responsibility or liability for any defects or errors in Consultant’s Services.

        4.      CHANGES IN WORK. Any changes in the scope of the Services shall be in the
form of a written modification to this Agreement, mutually agreed to and signed by duly authorized
representatives of each of the Parties, specifying any such changes, fee adjustments resulting
therefrom, any adjustment in time of performance, or any other significant factors arising from the
changes in the scope of Services.

        5.      DOCUMENT OWNERSHIP. All work product, which includes but is not limited
to all manuals, forms, contracts, schedules, reports, comments and any and all documents supplied
to or produced by Consultant under this Agreement are the joint property of the City and
POMSLA, whether or not the work for which they are made is executed. Any such word product,
and the information contained therein, are the joint and exclusive property of the City and
POMSLA and are not to be used by Consultant on any other projects with any other parties except
with prior written consent of both the City and POMSLA.
       6.      LEGAL RELATIONSHIP.

               6.1    Independent Contractor. This Agreement is for the performance of
services and not the sale of goods, and is to be construed according to the laws of the State.
Consultant's relationship to the City, POMSLA, and/or the State is that of an independent
contractor. No partner or employee of Consultant shall, by reason of this Agreement, become an
employee of the City, POMSLA, or the State.

                6.2     No Authority to Bind State; Exceptions. Consultant shall have no
authorization, expressed or implied, to bind the City, POMSLA, or the State to any agreement,
settlement, liability or understanding whatsoever, nor to perform any acts as agent for the City,
POMSLA, or the State, except as specifically set forth in this Agreement.

        7.      ASSIGNMENT. This Agreement shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit
of the Parties and their respective successors and assigns; provided, however, that Consultant shall
not assign its obligations hereunder without the prior written consent of the City and POMSLA.

        8.       TERMINATION BY CONSULTANT. This Agreement may be terminated by
Consultant upon seven (7) calendar days’ prior written notice should the City or POMSLA fail
substantially to perform, through no fault of Consultant, and the City or POMSLA has failed to
cure such failure to perform within fourteen (14) calendar days of the City’s and POMSLA’s
receipt of written notice of its failure to perform. Upon termination of this Agreement, Consultant
shall deliver all work performed to both the City and POMSLA. In the event of such termination,
Consultant shall be compensated by POMSLA for Services properly performed under this
Agreement up to date of the notice of termination. Consultant agrees that in the event of such
termination for default and such default is not successfully challenged by the City or POMSLA,
Consultant’s sole remedy and monetary recovery from the City and/or POMSLA is limited to full
payment by POMSLA for all Services properly performed plus incidental
services/reimbursements, under this Agreement up to the date of termination as well as any
reasonable monies owed as a result of Consultant having to terminate contracts necessarily entered
into by Consultant pursuant to this Agreement. The City shall not be liable for any payments or
damages arising from POMSLA’s failure to perform, including but not limited to failure to make
payments, as POMSLA is solely responsible for payment obligations under the Interlocal
Agreement. Consultant further acknowledges that in the event of such termination, all work
product, which includes but is not limited to all manuals, forms, contracts, schedules, reports,
comments and any and all documents produced by Consultant under this Agreement up to the date
of termination are the joint property of the City and POMSLA, and Consultant shall provide all
such work product to both the City and POMSLA immediately upon termination of this
Agreement.

       9.      TERMINATION BY THE CITY OR POMSLA. The performance of Services
under this Agreement may be terminated by the City and POMSLA in whole or in part at any time,
whenever the City and POMSLA shall determine that such termination is in the best interest of the
City, POMSLA, and/or the Project, including, without limitation, any termination of this
Agreement by the City and POMSLA for convenience or for cause. Any such termination shall
be effected by delivery to Consultant of a written notice of termination specifying the extent to
which performance of Services under this Agreement is terminated and the date upon which such
termination becomes effective. Consultant agrees that in the event of such termination,
Consultant’s sole remedy and monetary recovery from the City and/or POMSLA is limited to full
payment for all Services properly performed, plus incidental services/reimbursements, under this
Agreement up to date of termination. Consultant further acknowledges that in the event of such
termination, all work product, which includes but is not limited to all manuals, forms, contracts,
schedules, reports, comments and any and all documents produced by Consultant under this
Agreement up to the date of termination are the joint property of both the City and POMSLA, and
Consultant shall provide all such work product to both the City and POMSLA immediately upon
termination of this Agreement. Prior to the delivery to Consultant of a written notice of termination
by City or POMSLA, City and POMSLA shall meet and confer regarding the anticipated
termination. Any disagreement between City and POMSLA regarding the termination of
Consultant shall be resolved in accordance with the Interlocal Agreement.

        10.     HOLD HARMLESS REQUIREMENT. To the fullest extent permitted by law,
Consultant hereby agrees to indemnify and save harmless the City, POMSLA, the State, their
respective officers, agents, and employees, and anyone for whom the City, POMSLA, and/or the
State may be held liable, from and against any and all claims, damages or liabilities arising from
wrongful or negligent acts, errors or omissions of Consultant, any of Consultant’s consultants or
subcontractors at any tier, and anyone for whom Consultant may be liable.

        11.     INSURANCE. To protect against liability, loss and/or expense in connection with
the performance of Services, Consultant shall obtain and maintain in force during the entire term
of this Agreement without interruption, at its own expense, insurance as listed below. All such
insurance policies required under this Section 11 shall be issued by a financially responsible
company or companies authorized to do business in the State. Consultant shall provide the City
and POMSLA with copies of certificates (on the City or POMSLA certificate form) for all policies
with an endorsement that such policies are not subject to cancellation without thirty (30) calendar
days’ prior written notice to the City and POMSLA. The workers’ compensation, general liability,
and automobile liability policies shall be endorsed to include a waiver of subrogation in favor of
the City, POMSLA, and the State. The carrying of insurance required by this Agreement shall not
be interpreted as relieving Consultant of any other responsibility or liability under this Agreement
or any applicable law, statute, rule, regulation or order. The following are minimum coverages that
may be supplemented by additional requirements contained in any other document used to procure
Consultant’s services:

               11.1 Worker’s Compensation Insurance and Employers’ Liability
Insurance. Worker’s compensation insurance shall cover full liability under the Worker’s
Compensation laws of the State, unless a waiver of coverage is allowed and acquired pursuant to
State law. This requirement includes contractors who are doing business as an individual and/or
as a sole proprietor as well as corporations and partnerships. In the event any work is
subcontracted, Consultant shall require its subcontractor(s) similarly to provide workers’
compensation insurance for all of the latter’s employees, unless a waiver of coverage is allowed
and acquired pursuant to State law.
             11.2 Professional Liability Insurance. Professional liability insurance with a
minimum policy limit of Two Million Dollars ($2,000,000.00) per occurrence.

                11.3 Commercial Automobile Liability Insurance. Commercial automobile
liability insurance that provides coverage for owned, hired, and non-owned automobiles, in the
minimum amount of One Hundred Thousand Dollars ($100,000.00) per person, Three Hundred
Thousand Dollars ($300,000.00) per accident, Fifty Thousand Dollars ($50,000.00) property
damage or a single combined limit of Five Hundred Thousand Dollars ($500,000.00).

                11.4 Commercial General Liability Insurance. Commercial general liability
insurance shall be on an “occurrence basis” and shall name the City, POMSLA, and the State as
additional insured parties, in the minimum amount of (a) Five Hundred Thousand Dollars
($500,000.00) per occurrence, (b) One Million Dollar ($1,000,000.00) general policy aggregate,
(c) One Million Dollar ($1,000,000.00) products completed operations policy aggregate, and (d)
Five Hundred Thousand Dollars ($500,000.00) personal and advertising injury. The policy shall
protect the City, POMSLA, the State, Consultant, and any subcontractor from any claims for
damages for personal injury, including accidental death, and from claims for property damage that
may arise from Consultant’s Services, whether performed by Consultant or any subcontractor, or
anyone directly or indirectly employed or engaged by either of them. Such insurance shall provide
coverage for premises operations, acts of independent contractors, and completed operations. The
policy shall be primary and not contributing to any other policy or coverage available to the City,
POMSLA, or the State, whether such coverage be primary, contributing, or excess.

       12.      STANDARD OF CARE. The Services of Consultant and its subconsultants, if
any, shall be performed in accordance with and judged solely by the standard of care exercised by
licensed members of their respective professions having substantial experience providing similar
services on projects similar in type, magnitude and complexity to the Project (the “Standard of
Care”). Consultant shall be liable to the City, POMSLA, and the State for claims, liabilities,
additional burdens, penalties, damages or third party claims, to the extent caused by errors or
omissions that do not meet the standard of care required hereunder.

      13.     USE OF “SALES AGENTS.” Consultant warrants that no sales agent has been
employed or retained except as indicated in writing to the City and POMSLA.

         14.     LAWS, CODES AND REGULATIONS. Consultant and its subconsultants shall
use their best efforts consistent with the Standard of Care to comply with all applicable laws, codes,
rules, regulations, ordinances and quality requirements applicable to the Project.

        15.     REVIEWS, LIMITATIONS. The right of the City, POMSLA, or any entity/user
to perform plan checks, plan reviews, other reviews and/or comment upon the work of the
Consultant, as well as any approval by the City or POMSLA, shall not be construed as relieving
Consultant from its professional and legal responsibility for Services required under this
Agreement. No review by the City, POMSLA, or any entity/user, approval or acceptance, or
payment for any of the Services required under this Agreement shall be construed to operate as a
waiver by the City or POMSLA of any right under this Agreement or of any cause of action arising
out of the performance or nonperformance of this Agreement, and Consultant shall be and remain
liable to the City and/or POMSLA in accordance with applicable law for all damages to the City
and/or POMSLA caused by Consultant’s acts, errors and/or omissions.

        16.    DISCRIMINATION AND SEXUAL HARASSMENT PROHIBITED.
Pursuant to the laws of the State, Consultant, or any person acting on behalf thereof, will not
discriminate against any employee or applicant for employment because of race, creed, color, sex,
religion, ancestry or national origin. To the extent applicable, said persons will comply with all
provisions of Executive Order No. 11246 dated September 24, 1965 and rules, regulations, orders,
instructions, designations and other directives promulgated pursuant thereto. Consultant, or
anyone for whose act Consultant may be liable, shall not act in any manner as would violate the
laws, regulations and policies of the United States or the State prohibiting sexual harassment.

       17.    PERFORMANCE EVALUATION. The City and/or POMSLA may conduct a
performance evaluation of Consultant’s Services, including specific personnel of Consultant or
any subconsultant at any time. Results of any evaluation will be made available to Consultant.

         18.    STATUTE OF LIMITATION AND STATUTE OF REPOSE. An action by or
against Consultant, Consultant's subconsultants, agents, or anyone for whom Consultant may be
liable, shall comply with and be bound by the applicable and lawful statute of limitation and statute
of repose provisions. Notwithstanding the foregoing, any action by or against Consultant,
Consultant's subconsultants, agents, or anyone for whom Consultant may be liable, that is based
in contract or warranty shall be commenced within six (6) years of the date of Substantial
Completion, except that such period of limitation shall be modified as follows:

                 18.1 Fraudulent Concealment. In the event that Consultant, Consultant’s
subconsultants, agents, or anyone for whom Consultant may be liable, has fraudulently concealed
the act, error, omission or breach of duty, or the injury, damage or other loss caused by the act,
error, omission or breach of duty, the six (6) year period shall not begin to run until such time as
the City and POMSLA discover or, through the exercise of reasonable diligence, should have
discovered its claim.

                18.2 Willful and Intentional. In the event that Consultant, Consultant’s
subconsultants, agents, or anyone for whom Consultant may be liable commits a willful or
intentional act, error, omission, or breach of duty, the six (6) year period shall not begin to run
until such time as the City and POMSLA discover or, through the exercise of reasonable diligence,
should have discovered its claim.

               18.3 Unintentional and Nonfraudulent Latent Acts, Errors, Omissions or
Breaches of Duty. In the event of an unintentional and nonfraudulent latent act, error, omission
or breach of duty, the City and POMSLA shall have the time period allowed by State law and the
Utah Code, unless a longer period is provided for in this Agreement.

                18.4 “Different Period of Limitation” from Utah Code. The provisions of this
Section 18 are understood and agreed to by Consultant as establishing a "different period of
limitations" as that term is used in UCA 78B-2-225(3)(a) or any other similar statute of the Utah
Code. These provisions are not intended to shorten any time period allowed by State law and code
for non-contract actions, including but not limited to, those based in tort.

        19.    WAIVERS. No waiver by the City, POMSLA, or Consultant of any default shall
constitute a waiver of the same default at a later time or of a different default.

        20.     APPLICABLE LAW AND VENUE. This Agreement shall be construed in
accordance with the laws of the State. Venue for any legal proceeding regarding this Agreement
shall be in Salt Lake County, State of Utah.

        21.    AUTHORITY TO EXECUTE. Consultant, the City, and POMSLA each
represent that the execution of this Agreement and the performance thereunder is within such
Party’s respective duly authorized powers.

        22.    PUBLIC CONTRACT REQUIREMENTS. In accordance with Utah Code §
63G-27-201, unless this Agreement is for a total value of less than One Hundred Thousand Dollars
($100,000.00), or Consultant has fewer than ten (10) full time employees, or this Agreement is
otherwise exempt under Utah Code § 63G-27-201: (1) Consultant certifies that Consultant is not
currently engaged in a boycott of the State of Israel or an economic boycott as that term is defined
in Utah Code § 63G-27-102; (2) Consultant agrees not to engage in a boycott of the State of Israel
during the duration of this Agreement; (3) Consultant shall notify the City and POMSLA if
Consultant begins engaging in an economic boycott; and (4) Consultant acknowledges and agrees
that Consultant’s notice under clause (3) of this Section 22 may be grounds for termination of this
Agreement by the City and POMSLA for cause.

        23.     ATTORNEYS’ FEES. Should any Party to this Agreement bring suit to enforce
this Agreement, it is agreed that the prevailing Party shall be entitled to recover its costs, expenses,
and reasonable attorneys’ fees. A prevailing Party is a Party that shall have obtained a final
judgment or order no longer subject to appeal. In the event of a settlement before final
adjudication, each Party shall bear its own respective costs, expenses, and reasonable attorneys’
fees, unless otherwise agreed. Any obligation set forth in this Agreement requiring one Party to
defend, indemnify and hold the other Party harmless shall include payment by the indemnifying
Party of the indemnitee’s reasonable attorneys’ fees when and as incurred.

       24.     NOTICES. Any notice required or permitted to be given hereunder shall be
deemed sufficient if given in writing and shall be deemed to have been received (a) upon personal
delivery or actual receipt thereof, or (b) within three (3) days after such notice is deposited in the
United States mail, postage prepaid, and certified and addressed as follows:

               If to City:             Draper City
                                       Attn: Mayor
                                       1020 East Pioneer Road
                                       Draper, UT 84020
              With a copy to:      Draper City
                                   Attn: City Attorney
                                   1020 East Pioneer Road
                                   Draper, UT 84020

              If to POMSLA:        The Point of the Mountain State Land Authority
                                   Attn: Executive Director
                                   PO Box 692
                                   Draper, UT 84020

              With a copy to:      Ballard Spahr LLP
                                   Attn: Steven P. Mehr
                                   201 South Main Street, Suite 800
                                   Salt Lake City, UT 84111

              If to Consultant:    [                     ]
                                   Attn: [               ]
                                   [                     ]
                                   [                     ]

       25.     PARTIAL INVALIDITY. If any provision in this Agreement is held by a court
of competent jurisdiction to be invalid, void or unenforceable, the remaining provisions will
nevertheless continue in full force without being impaired or invalidated in any way.


                                  [Signature Page Follows]
               IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Parties hereto have entered into this Agreement as
of the day and year first above written.

                                          CITY:

                                          CITY OF DRAPER, a municipal corporation created
                                          under the laws of the State of Utah


                                          By:
                                          Name:
                                          Its:


                                          POMSLA:

                                          POINT OF THE MOUNTAIN STATE LAND
                                          AUTHORITY, an independent entity of the State of
                                          Utah


                                          By:
                                          Name:
                                          Its:


                                          CONSULTANT:

                                          [       ], a [   ]


                                          By:
                                          Name:
                                          Its:




                     Signature Page to Development Consultant Agreement
            EXHIBIT A
               TO
DEVELOPMENT CONSULTANT AGREEMENT

       Legal Description of Project

             [To be attached]
            EXHIBIT B
               TO
DEVELOPMENT CONSULTANT AGREEMENT

      INTERLOCAL AGREEMENT

           [To be attached]
                                      EXHIBIT C
                                         TO
                          DEVELOPMENT CONSULTANT AGREEMENT

                                               SCOPE OF WORK

The consultant will be responsible for some or all of the following:

1.   Standard of Care
     The Consultant shall exercise a standard of care, skill, diligence, and judgment that is generally recognized as
     acceptable within the industry for similar services. The Consultant shall perform its duties to the best of its
     abilities and in a competent, efficient, and professional manner. The Consultant shall act honestly, in good faith,
     and in the best interests of Draper City and POMSLA, adhering to all relevant laws, regulations, and industry
     standards. The Consultant shall avoid any conflicts of interest that might compromise the integrity of the
     services provided. The Consultant shall promptly disclose any potential conflicts to Draper City and POMSLA.

2.   Detailed Plan Review
     • Conduct comprehensive reviews of design documents and construction plans, including:
         o Backbone Infrastructure: Major utilities (water, sewer, stormwater), transportation corridors,
              communication systems, and other critical sitewide systems.
         o Secondary Civil Systems: Phase one, Local roads, site grading, drainage, landscaping, and related
              civil improvements.
         o Vertical Fire/Life Safety Systems: Fire suppression, fire alarm, egress, smoke control, fire-rated
              assemblies, and related components in vertical (building) construction.
     • Verify compliance with approved projects engineering standards, The Basis of Design, Draper’s Design
         Standards including NFPA standards, and other applicable standards, including but not limited to
         AASHTO, AWWA, APWA Specifications, MUTCD, and IBC, as well as project-specific criteria.
     • Identify and document all deviations from approved design plans and the Basis of Design in a detailed
         deviation report. The report shall include an assessment of compliance with the Interlocal Agreement
         between POMSLA and Draper City, with recommendations for corrective actions to address non-
         compliance.
     • Conduct a thorough review of engineering drawings to confirm that proposed designs align with industry
         best practices and do not result in operations and maintenance (O&M) costs that exceed Draper City’s
         design standards.

3.   On-Site Observation and Reporting
     • Perform mandatory regular on-site inspections at key project milestones to observe the installation and
        construction of backbone infrastructure, secondary civil elements, and vertical fire/life safety systems.
     • Verify that installed work aligns with approved plans, shop drawings, and specifications, with a focus on
        quality workmanship and code compliance with applicable standards.
     • Provide detailed field observation reports, documenting progress, compliance, deficiencies, and corrective
        actions, supported by photographic evidence with applicable. Reports shall be provided simultaneously to
        both POMSLA and Draper City.
     • Conduct follow-up site visits to confirm resolution of identified issues.

4.   QA/QC Oversight and Compliance Monitoring
     • Evaluate and monitor the contractor’s QA/QC procedures and field implementation.
     • Provide independent oversight to ensure materials, systems, and assemblies meet the project’s performance,
        durability, and safety requirements.
     • Assist in identifying and tracking nonconforming work; recommend and monitor corrective measures.
     • Participate in quality and coordination meetings with the owner, contractor, and design teams as required.
     • If the awarded consultant determines that the existing Q A/QC plan is inadequate, the consultant shall
        collaborate with the Engineer of Record, Draper City, and POMSLA to develop a more comprehensive
         plan that is mutually acceptable to all parties, who will then share responsibility for implementing and
         enforcing the updated plan moving forward.

5.   Coordination and Communication
     Maintain proactive communication with POMSLA and Draper City, design professionals, contractors, and
     regulatory authorities. All communications, notifications, and reports shall be provided simultaneously to both
     POMSLA and Draper City to ensure transparency and equal access.
     • Provide periodic summary reports highlighting key QA/QC findings, outstanding issues, and
         recommendations.
     • Support final inspections, testing, commissioning, and closeout processes, particularly related to fire/life
         safety system compliance.
            EXHIBIT D
               TO
DEVELOPMENT CONSULTANT AGREEMENT

        Consultant Billing Rates

            [To be attached]
