MINUTES OF THE DRAPER CITY COUNCIL MEETING HELD ON TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 4,
2025, IN THE DRAPER CITY COUNCIL CHAMBERS, 1020 EAST PIONEER ROAD, DRAPER,
UTAH

PRESENT:     Mayor Troy K. Walker, and Councilmembers Mike Green (by phone),
             Bryn Heather Johnson, Tasha Lowery, Fred Lowry, and Marsha Vawdrey
EXCUSED:
STAFF:       Mike Barker, City Manager; Kellie Challburg, Assistant City Manager;
             Scott Cooley, City Engineer and Public Works Director; Spencer
             DuShane, Assistant City Attorney; Rich Ferguson, Chief of Police; Jennifer
             Jastremsky, Community Development Director; Malena Murray, Human
             Resources Director; Rhett Ogden, Parks and Recreation Director; Laura
             Oscarson, City Recorder; Linda Peterson, Communications Director;
             Steve Pearson, Deputy Fire Chief; Steve Alsop, Technology Director; John
             Vuyk, Finance Director; Nicole Smedley; Todd Draper, Planning Manager
_____________________________________________________________________________________

Closed Session

      Councilmember Vawdrey moved to recess to a closed session to discuss real
      estate acquisition, development agreement, and potential litigation.
      Councilmember T. Lowery seconded the motion.

      A roll call vote was taken. The motion passed unanimously.
                                       Yes No      Absent
       Councilmember Green                            X
       Councilmember Johnson            X
       Councilmember T. Lowery          X
       Councilmember F. Lowry           X
       Councilmember Vawdrey            X

Study Session

      Discussion: 3 and 10-Year Plans
      Finance Director John Vuyk proposed putting together a three-year budget and
      a 10-year outlook to have an idea of where the City was going. He said City
      Manager Mike Barker and department heads had expressed support for the
      idea. Mr. Vuyk emphasized there were many different funding options for
      getting things done. He stated that Draper City had a general obligation bond
                                                                             1|Page
        Draper City Council DRAFT Meeting Minutes – February 4, 2025
     that would expire in FY2025, and the City Council would need to decide
     whether to go through the truth-in-taxation process to maintain the same
     property tax rate without needing to make bond payments.

     Mr. Vuyk spoke in favor of performance-based budget decisions in terms of
     staffing, and said he asked department heads to show measurements used to
     determine if additional positions were needed. He showed a graph of Draper
     City staffing versus Draper City population (currently one employee per 156
     residents). Mr. Vuyk spoke of establishing a maintenance and replacement
     model for the City fleet and equipment, buildings, and landscaping.

     The Council and staff discussed the general obligation bond set to expire in
     FY2025. Mr. Vuyk explained that the City could go through the truth-in-taxation
     process to maintain the current property tax rate. This would allow the
     revenue previously used for bond payments to be allocated for other
     purposes determined by the Council. If the City did not go through truth-in-
     taxation, the property tax rate would automatically be reduced to exclude the
     portion that had been used for bond payment.

     Councilmembers discussed the possibility of maintaining the current tax rate
     and putting the revenue in a capital improvement fund to save for a
     community center. Mr. Vuyk briefly explained the truth-in-taxation process
     and expressed the opinion a general obligation bond was a good mechanism
     for providing something like a community center. Mr. Vuyk said further
     discussion would take place during the upcoming Council retreat.

     Discussion: Disc Golf Course
     Parks and Recreation Director Rhett Ogden reported the Professional Disc Golf
     Association (PDGA) desired to use the disc golf course in Draper City during
     the 2026 Women’s Championship. He reported that the public course in
     Draper would need to be closed for a couple of days during the championship.
     Mr. Ogden said hosting the championship would raise notoriety for Draper,
     and said the championship was expected to bring in $2.5 million Countywide.
     Councilmember T. Lowery expressed that a fee should be paid for the use and
     possible wear-and-tear of the public resource.

Business Session
      Councilmember Green joined the meeting by phone.
1.    Call to Order by Mayor Troy K. Walker

                                                                          2|Page
2.    Pledge of Allegiance led by Lieutenant Pat Evans

3.    Proclamation – Random Acts of Kindness Week
      Mayor Walker read aloud a proclamation declaring February 9-15, 2025 as
      Random Acts of Kindness Week in Draper City.

4.    Public Comments
      None

5.    Consent Items
5.a   Approval of the January 21, 2025, City Council Meeting Minutes.
5.b   Approval of Resolution #25-06 adopting Section 10400 Vehicle Usage and
      Incident Reporting of the Personnel Policies and Procedures Manual.

      Councilmember Vawdrey moved to approve               the     Consent   Items.
      Councilmember T. Lowery seconded the motion.

      A roll call vote was taken. The motion passed unanimously.
                                          Yes No      Absent
       Councilmember Green                 X
       Councilmember Johnson               X
       Councilmember T. Lowery             X
       Councilmember F. Lowry              X
       Councilmember Vawdrey               X

6.    Items for Council Consideration
6.a   Public Hearing: Ordinance #1632 approving a Development Agreement, and
      amending the official Zoning Map of Draper City for approximately 4.44 acres
      of property from A5 (Agricultural, 5-acre lot minimum) to RA2 (Residential
      Agricultural, 20,000 square foot lot minimum) for the property located at
      12741 South and 12751 S Costanza Way, otherwise known as the Warhorse
      Ranch Development Agreement and Zoning Map Amendment.
      City Planner Todd Taylor showed the subject properties on a map and said the
      properties were designated for residential low/medium density on the Land
      Use Map. Mr. Taylor explained the request for rezoning from A5 to RA2 and
      said the proposed Development Agreement would: allow reduced right-of-way
      width for Costanza Way north of subject properties; allow removal of
      sidewalks from the cross-section of Costanza Way west of subject properties;

                                                                         3|Page
      and restrict the development of the two parcels to a total of four lots. Mr.
      Taylor said the Planning Commission reviewed the request and forwarded a
      positive recommendation.

      Chad Evans, representing the property owners, expressed a desire to preserve
      the existing trail through the subject properties and said the properties would
      only have a total of four lots.

      Mayor Walker opened a public hearing, and closed the public hearing seeing
      no one come forward.

      Councilmember T. Lowery moved to approve                  Ordinance    #1632.
      Councilmember F. Lowry seconded the motion.

      A roll call vote was taken. The motion passed unanimously.
                                          Yes No      Absent
       Councilmember Green                 X
       Councilmember Johnson               X
       Councilmember T. Lowery             X
       Councilmember F. Lowry              X
       Councilmember Vawdrey               X

6.b   Public Hearing: Ordinance #1633 amending the official Zoning Map of Draper
      City for approximately 2.465 acres of property from RA1 (Residential
      Agricultural, 40,000 square foot lot minimum) to RA2 (Residential Agricultural,
      20,000 square foot lot minimum) for the property located at 516 East 13800
      South, otherwise known as the South Willow Zoning Map Amendment
      City Planner Nick Whittaker showed the subject property on a map and said
      the property was designated for residential low/medium density on the Land
      Use Map. Mr. Whittaker explained the request to rezone the property from
      RA1 to RA2 and said RA2 was compatible with the Land Use Map. The Planning
      Commission reviewed the request and forwarded a positive recommendation.

      Brandon Preece with Gilson Engineering, representing the applicant, said the
      proposed rezone would be congruent with the surrounding RA2 Zoning, and
      allow for future subdivision development of up to four properties, maintaining
      the existing private road access. Mr. Preece answered questions from the
      Council about the planned road width and said the proposed road width
      would match that of a similar road nearby.

                                                                            4|Page
      Mayor Walker opened a public hearing.

      Tim Johnson, Draper resident, said he believed road width was currently
      required by City Code to be 26 feet, and expressed concern for fire apparatus
      access.

      Mayor Walker closed the public hearing.

      Councilmember F. Lowry moved to approve                  Ordinance    #1633.
      Councilmember Vawdrey seconded the motion.

      Community Development Director Jennifer Jastremsky said fire apparatus
      access would be addressed during the development process.

      A roll call vote was taken. The motion passed unanimously.
                                          Yes No      Absent
       Councilmember Green                 X
       Councilmember Johnson               X
       Councilmember T. Lowery             X
       Councilmember F. Lowry              X
       Councilmember Vawdrey               X

6.c   Public Hearing: Resolution #25-05 amending the adopted budget for Draper
      City for Fiscal Year 2024-2025
      Finance Director John Vuyk presented proposed amendments to the FY2025
      Budget and answered questions from the Council.

      Mayor Walker opened a public hearing, and closed the public hearing seeing
      no one come forward.

      Councilmember Vawdrey moved to approve Resolution #25-05, removing
      duplicate item #25-33. Councilmember T. Lowery seconded the motion.

      A roll call vote was taken. The motion passed unanimously.
                                          Yes No      Absent
       Councilmember Green                 X
       Councilmember Johnson               X
       Councilmember T. Lowery             X

                                                                           5|Page
     Councilmember F. Lowry              X
     Councilmember Vawdrey               X

     Council/Manager Reports (continued from Study Session)
     Councilmember Johnson asked if the Council would be comfortable with the
     Tree Commission looking into hosting tree talks. A majority of the Council
     appeared to indicate approval. Councilmember F. Lowry asked if an adopt-a-
     tree program would be possible. Rhett Ogden, Parks and Recreation Director
     said such a program could be possible.

     Councilmember Johnson said residents had reached out to her with concerns
     about parking in South Mountain associated with short-term rentals or
     multiple rental units on properties. Community Development Director Jennifer
     Jastremsky said staff had been contacting property owners and working with
     them to come into compliance with City Code. City Engineer and Public Works
     Director Scott Cooley described signage that had been tried, and options
     considered by staff.

     Councilmember Johnson said residents had suggested opening City parks for
     “yappy hour”, a period in which dog owners would be allowed to let dogs play
     off-leash without needing to add new infrastructure. Councilmembers
     mentioned Code violation and liability issues, and Mayor Walker said it
     appeared the Council was not in favor.

     Assistant City Manager Kellie Challburg asked the Council for feedback
     regarding volunteer recognition and grand marshal suggestions.

7.   Adjournment
     Councilmember T. Lowery moved to adjourn the meeting. Councilmember
     Vawdrey seconded the motion, which passed by unanimous vote.

     The meeting adjourned at 7:45 pm.




                                                                        6|Page
