                                  Development Review Committee
                                      1020 East Pioneer Road
                                        Draper, UT 84020
                                          October 8, 2025

To:              Draper City Planning Commission
                 Business Date: October 23, 2025

From:            Development Review Committee

Prepared By: Nick Whittaker, MCMP, Planner II
             Planning Division
             Community Development Department
             801-576-6522, Nick.Whittaker@draperutah.gov

Re:     Premier Engraving and Awards – Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit Request
        Application No.: 2025-0173-USE
        Applicant:        Chloe Wardle, representing Premier Engraving and Awards
        Project Location: 201 E. 13560 S.
        Current Zoning: RA2 (Residential Agricultural 20,000 ft2 minimum lot size) Zone
        Acreage:          0.50 Acres (Approximately 21,780 ft2)
        Request:          Request for approval of a Home Occupation Conditional Use
                          Permit in the RA2 zone to operate a Cottage Business.



BACKGROUND AND SUMMARY

This application is a request for approval of a Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit for
approximately 0.50 acres located on the North side of 13560 S. at approximately 201 E.
13560 S. (Exhibit C & D). The property is currently zoned RA2. The applicant is requesting
that a Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit be approved to allow for a cottage
business which provides small scale custom engraving and personalized gift items which
are sold online.

The subject property is not part of a platted subdivision. A detached single-family dwelling
was built on the subject property in 1993. The business will utilize an approximately 196 ft2
office space located within the dwelling for business administration and storing inventory.
In addition, a 250 ft2 portion of the attached garage will be used for engraving, printing 3D
items, and storing supplies. (Exhibits C, F, G & H).




Premier Engraving and Awards                                         App. # 2025-0173-USE
Home Occupation Conditional Use Request          1
ANALYSIS

General Plan and Zoning.

 Table 1                   General Plan and Zoning Designations                Exhibit
 Existing Land Use         Residential Medium Density                          Exhibit D
 Current Zoning            RA2                                                 Exhibit E
 Adjacent Zoning
    East                   RA1 (Residential Agricultural)
    West                   RA2
    North                  RA1
    South                  RA2

The Residential Medium Density land use designation is characterized as follows:




According to Draper City Municipal Code (DCMC) Section 9-8-020 the purpose of the RA2



Premier Engraving and Awards                                       App. # 2025-0173-USE
Home Occupation Conditional Use Request            2
zone is to, “permit medium density residential development without special mitigation
requirements. This zone is intended to provide incentives to foster residential development
with little impact on its surroundings and on municipal services, and to generally preserve
the semirural character called for in the density element of the general plan.”

Home Occupation. The DCMC Section 9-34-040 outlines development standards applicable
to all home occupations. Those criteria, along with information specific to the subject
request, are as follows:

        A. Ownership: The home occupation shall be owned and operated by a person who
             resides in the dwelling where the home occupation is located. Such person shall
             be the primary provider of the labor, work, or service provided in the home
             occupation.

                 •   The applicant owns the business and resides at the dwelling (Exhibit H).

        B. Business License: A business license for the home occupation shall be obtained
             from and continually maintained with the city pursuant to title 6, chapter 11 of
             this code.

                 •   The applicant indicates that they will obtain and maintain a business
                     license with Draper City.

        C. Employees: Members of the family of the owner who reside in the dwelling may
             be employed in the home occupation. Nonfamily or nonresident employees
             shall be limited to one person.

                 •   The applicant and her husband who resides at the dwelling are the only
                     employees of the business (Exhibit H).

        D. Inspection: All facilities shall comply with fire, building, plumbing, electrical and
             all other city, county, state and federal codes. Inspections during reasonable
             hours by city officials may occur as necessary to assure compliance with
             regulations.

                 •   The applicant has agreed to comply with necessary inspections (Exhibit
                     H).

        E. Inventory: No stock in trade, inventory, or other merchandise to exceed two
             hundred fifty (250) square feet shall be kept on the premises. No outside storage
             is allowed.




Premier Engraving and Awards                                             App. # 2025-0173-USE
Home Occupation Conditional Use Request         3
                 •   The applicant will keep supplies and inventory for the business in the
                     Office area and the garage and no additional storage will be kept
                     anywhere else on the premises. The applicant does not specify how much
                     square footage will be dedicated to storage; however, the sum total of
                     both areas being utilized for the home occupation would limit potential
                     storage to less than 446 ft2 (Exhibits G & H).

        F. Modification Of Structures Or Yards: There shall be no visible evidence from the
             exterior of a dwelling that it is being used for any other purpose than that of a
             dwelling. No activities shall be carried on outside the dwelling in the yard for the
             benefit of or incidental to the home occupation. No front yard area shall be
             altered to provide parking required for a home occupation.

                 •   The applicant indicates that there will not be any modifications to the
                     property for the purpose of the business (Exhibit H).

        G. Nuisance: Tools, items, equipment, or activities conducted within the dwelling
             which is offensive or noxious by reason of the emission of odor, smoke, gas,
             vibration, magnetic interference, or noise shall be prohibited.

                 •   According to the applicant, the tools and equipment used do not create
                     any of the nuisances described in this criterion. (Exhibit H).

        H. Secondary Use: The home occupation shall be clearly incidental and secondary
             to the primary use of the dwelling for residential purposes. The home
             occupation shall not disrupt the normal residential character of the
             neighborhood in which the residence is located. Not more than twenty five
             percent (25%) of the dwelling unit shall be used for the home occupation.

                 •   The applicant indicates that the business will utilize a 196 ft2 home office
                     located within the dwelling for business administration and storing
                     inventory. In addition, a 250 ft2 portion of the garage which will be used
                     for engraving and the production of 3D printed items. The total square
                     footage of the dwelling being used for the home occupation is 446 ft2
                     which is approximately 9.5% of the dwelling total square footage.
                     (Exhibits F, G & H).

        I.   Signs: All signage in a residential area must comply with chapter 26, "Signs", of
             this title.

                 •   The home occupation will not have any signage on the property (Exhibit
                     H).




Premier Engraving and Awards                                             App. # 2025-0173-USE
Home Occupation Conditional Use Request           4
        J.   Traffic, Parking, And Access: No home occupation use shall generate pedestrian,
             parking, or vehicular traffic in excess of that customarily associated with the
             zone in which the use is located. All parking shall be provided and maintained on
             site with adequate provision for drop off traffic.

                 •   No customers come to the home. All customer interactions and sales are
                     conducted online (Exhibit H).

        K. Vehicles: Other than the business owner's personal transportation, there shall
             be no vehicles or equipment on the property associated with the home
             occupation which would not normally be found at a residence. No signage for
             the home occupation shall be allowed on vehicles.

                 •   There are no business vehicles used in the operation of the home
                     occupation (Exhibit H).

        L. Yards: Yards surrounding the dwelling and accessory buildings shall not be used
             for any activities or storage of any materials associated with the home
             occupation.

                 •   There will not be any storage or production of materials and products of
                     in the surrounding yards (Exhibit H).

        M. Customers: No customers allowed. Children accessing a limited daycare or
           limited preschool facility shall not be considered customers.

                 •   No customers come to the home. All Customer activity is online (Exhibit
                     H).

        N. Utility Demand: The home occupation shall not cause a demand for public
             utilities in excess of that necessarily and customarily provided for residential
             uses.

                 •   The applicant indicates that the business will not create additional utility
                     demands (Exhibit H).

        O. Main Structure: The home occupations shall be conducted, located, and
           contained within the primary structure on the property.

                 •   The applicant indicates that all aspects of the business will be conducted
                     within the home (Exhibit H).
                 •   Staff notes that the applicants proposed use of 250 ft2 of the garage will
                     not obstruct 2 vehicles from being able to park in the garage as well.



Premier Engraving and Awards                                              App. # 2025-0173-USE
Home Occupation Conditional Use Request           5
        P. Single-Family And Multiple-Family Dwellings: Home occupations listed as
             permitted or conditional within this title may be permitted in a single-family or a
             multiple-family dwelling, subject to the standards found within this section and
             section 9-34-060 of this chapter. Businesses within multiple-family dwellings
             shall provide an approval letter from the respective homeowners' association, or
             management company in the case of apartments, if the business proposes any
             employees, customers or business vehicles.

                 •   The business is located within a single-family dwelling. Approval from an
                     HOA or management company is not required.

        Q. Licensure: Any home occupation involving childcare shall comply with all
             applicable state and local laws and regulations regarding residential childcare,
             including, but not limited to, provisions of the Utah child care licensing act, as set
             forth in Utah Code Annotated section 26-39-101 et seq., as amended, and the
             residential certificate childcare standards as set forth in the Utah administrative
             code section R430-50-1 et seq., as amended. In addition, cottage food
             production operations are regulated and inspected by the Utah department of
             agriculture. Any food related home occupation under their jurisdiction must
             comply with these regulations.

                 •   The home occupation does not involve child care or cottage food
                     production.



The proposed Home Occupation is a Cottage Business which requires a Conditional Use
Permit per DCMC 9-34-050.

A cottage business is defined in the DCMC 9-3-040 as, “A business where products are
created in the home. The products are unique in nature, such as handicraft, art, and
jewelry. Limited food production can also be considered. Anything that uses a material, a
mixture of materials or a quantity of materials that could be classified by the fire marshal
or building official as dangerous or hazardous will not be allowed.”

The requirements and standards for approval of a Conditional Use Permit are found in 9-5-
080(E) of the DCMC. The reasonably anticipated detrimental effects related to operating a
cottage business are typically the potential for loud noises or odors discernable from
outside of the property, and traffic generated by customers. In regards to this particular
home occupation the potential for detrimental effects is mitigated by the small size of the
overall operation, and the fact that all business operations are conducted entirely within
the applicant’s residence. Additionally, there are no impacts to neighborhood traffic as no
customers come to the home, and there are no business vehicles.



Premier Engraving and Awards                                              App. # 2025-0173-USE
Home Occupation Conditional Use Request          6
Criteria for Approval.

The criteria for review and potential approval of a conditional use permit request is found
in Section 9-5-080(E) of the DCMC. This section depicts the standard of review for such
requests as:

        E. Approval Standards: The standards of this subsection shall apply to the issuance
            of a conditional use permit:
         1. A conditional use permit may be issued for a use to be located within a zone
            where the particular conditional use is allowed by the use regulations of the
            zone.
         2. Reasonable conditions may be imposed as necessary to substantially mitigate
            reasonably anticipated detrimental effects of the proposed use. These
            conditions may include conditions concerning use, construction, character,
            location, landscaping, screening, parking, hours of operation, and other matters
            relating to the purposes and objectives of this section. Such conditions shall be
            expressly set forth in the motion authorizing the conditional use permit.
         3. If the reasonably anticipated detrimental effects of a proposed conditional use
            cannot be substantially mitigated by the imposition of reasonable conditions to
            achieve compliance with applicable standards, the conditional use may be
            denied.
         4. The following factors shall be reviewed and considered in determining whether a
            conditional use permit application should be approved, approved with
            conditions, or denied because reasonable conditions cannot be imposed to
            achieve compliance with applicable standards:
              a. The harmony and compliance of the proposed use with the objectives and
                 requirements of the city's general plan and this title;
              b. The suitability of the specific property for the proposed use;
              c. Whether the proposed use or facility may be injurious to potential or existing
                 development in the vicinity;
              d. The economic impact of the proposed facility or use on the surrounding
                 area;
              e. The aesthetic impact of the proposed facility or use on the surrounding area;
              f. The safeguards proposed or provided to ensure adequate utilities,
                 transportation access, drainage, parking, loading space, lighting, screening,
                 landscaping, open space, fire protection, and pedestrian and vehicular
                 circulation;
              g. The safeguards provided or proposed to prevent noxious or offensive
                 emissions such as noise, glare, dust, pollutants and odor from the proposed
                 facility or use; and




Premier Engraving and Awards                                          App. # 2025-0173-USE
Home Occupation Conditional Use Request        7
              h. The impact of the proposed facility or use on the health, safety, and welfare
                 of the city, the area, and persons owning or leasing property in the area.
          5. The planning commission may request additional information as may be
             reasonably needed to determine whether the requirements of this subsection E
             can be met.




REVIEWS

Planning Division Review. The Draper City Planning Division has completed their review of
the Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit submission. Comments from this division, if
any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Engineering and Public Works Divisions Review. The Draper City Engineering and Public
Works Divisions have completed their reviews of the Home Occupation Conditional Use
Permit submission. Comments from these divisions, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Building Division Review. The Draper City Building Division has completed their review of
the Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit submission. Comments from this division, if
any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Fire Division Review. The Draper City Fire Marshal has completed his review of the Home
Occupation Conditional Use Permit submission. Comments from this division, if any, can
be found in Exhibit A.

Noticing. Notice has been properly issued in the manner outlined in the City and State
Codes.



STAFF RECOMMENDATION

Staff recommends that the Planning Commission review the request based on the findings
and the criteria for approval, or denial as listed within the staff report. The Planning
Commission should also review the request, hear from the applicant, and receive public
comment prior to making a decision.

If the Planning Commission decides to approve the request, staff recommends they include
the following conditions of approval:

    1. That all requirements of the Draper City Engineering, Public Works, Building,
       Planning, and Fire Divisions are satisfied.
    2. That a Draper City business license shall be obtained and maintained by the



Premier Engraving and Awards                                           App. # 2025-0173-USE
Home Occupation Conditional Use Request        8
       business owner for as long as the business remains in operation.
    3. That all engraving and assembly of the custom gift items shall be confined to the
       areas indicated in this report and as shown on the approved plans.
    4. That no customers shall come to the home.



MODEL MOTIONS AND FINDINGS

Sample Motion for Approval – I move that we approve the Home Occupation Conditional
Use Permit, as requested by Chloe Wardle, representing Premier Engraving and Awards
Application 2025-0173-USE, based on the following findings for approval and subject to the
conditions listed in the Staff Report dated October 8, 2025.

Findings for approval:

        1. The proposal complies with the standards for approval found in DCMC Section 9-
           5-080(E) and potential negative impacts are mitigated through the imposition of
           reasonable conditions.

I move that we approve the Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit, as requested by
Chloe Wardle, representing Premier Engraving and Awards Application 2025-0173-USE,
based on the findings for approval and subject to the conditions listed in the Staff Report
dated October 8, 2025 and as modified by the following additional findings or conditions:

        1. (List any additional findings…)
        2. (List any additional conditions…)

Sample Motion for Denial – I move that we deny the Home Occupation Conditional Use
Permit, as requested by Chloe Wardle, representing Premier Engraving and Awards
Application 2025-0173-USE, based on the following findings for denial listed in the Staff
Report dated October 8, 2025.

Findings for denial:

        1. The proposal does not comply with all standards for approval found in DCMC
           Section 9-5-080(E) and potential negative impacts are not able to be sufficiently
           mitigated through the imposition of reasonable conditions.




Premier Engraving and Awards                                          App. # 2025-0173-USE
Home Occupation Conditional Use Request        9
                  DEVELOPMENT REVIEW COMMITTEE ACKNOWLEDGEMENT


We, the undersigned, as duly appointed members of the Draper City Development Review
Committee, do acknowledge that the application which provides the subject for this staff
report has been reviewed by the Committee and has been found to be appropriate for
review by the Draper City Planning Commission and/or City Council.

                                                                                             OigiUJV SjgriM By TBdo A.
                       Digitally Signed by Brien Maiheid
                       DN:C»US.                                                              ON:CkUS.
                       £-brlen.inaxhol(3@0raporuiah gov,
 Brien Maxfield OcDraper, OU=Public Works ●                                                  E>load.clmper@sraper.ul.Lis.
                                                                        Todd A. Draper O-O^apar Cily Planning.
                       Engineering, CN<Br.on Maxlield                                        CN..T<^A. Draper
                       Date-2025. to. 14 10:26:16 06'00'                                     Daiai 202S.I0.I4
                                                                                             1S.4SJS 06211:


Draper City Public Works Department                              Draper City Planning Division


                           nytiPi      by o»«


   Don Buckley             OM
                                                         AucMn




Draper City Fire Department                                      'Draper Cit$' Legal counsel

                        OtQi'tfy signvd by        Symos

 Matthew Symes
                        OK C«U$, E-matl.symos^brapcrvta^ gov,
                        0-Drsv>«^ Ciiy Corp,. CN»Manh«w Symos
                        Cue: S025.10.14 09:03 42 0600'




Draper City Building Division
                                     EXHIBIT A
                                DEPARTMENT REVIEWS

REVIEWS ARE NOT MEANT TO BE AN ALL-INCLUSIVE LIST OF POSSIBLE COMMENTS OR
CONDITIONS.



Planning Division Review.

       1.     No Additional Comments

Engineering and Public Works Divisions Review.

       1.     No Additional Comments

Building Division Review.

       1.     No Additional Comments

Fire Division Review.

       1.     No Additional Comments
  EXHIBIT B
VICINITY MAP
 EXHIBIT C
AERIAL MAP
  EXHIBIT D
LAND USE MAP
 EXHIBIT E
ZONING MAP
EXHIBIT F
SITE PLAN
  EXHIBIT G
FLOOR PLANS
                             Main Engraving area
Office area ( (interior of
                             (garage), 10ft x 25ft
home) 14ft x 14ft
                              ● 3 engraving
 ● 2 computers
                                 machines
 ● Admin storage
                              ● 2 uv printers
                              ● 4 computers
                              ● supplies
      EXHIBIT H
APPLICANT STATEMENTS
Please explain how you will meet the standards listed below. If it does not apply
explain why (N/A is not a valid response). If you do not meet the standard, identify
that and explain how you intend to mitigate the impact.
9-34-040: DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS; PERMITTED USE:
The development standards set forth in this section shall apply to any home occupation
allowed as a permitted use:
A. Ownership: The home occupation shall be owned and operated by a person who
resides in the dwelling where the home occupation is located. Such person shall be the
primary provider of the labor, work, or service provided in the home occupation.
   •   The business is owned and operated by a person who resides and dwells where
       the home occupation is located.
B. Business License: A business license for the home occupation shall be obtained
from and continually maintained with the city pursuant to title 6, chapter 11 of this code.
   •   Okay
C. Employees: Members of the family of the owner who reside in the dwelling may be
employed in the home occupation. Nonfamily or nonresident employees shall be limited
to one person.
   •   The business will be run by members of the family that resides in the dwelling
       only.The employees are limited to Travis Wardle and Chloe Wardle.
D. Inspection: All facilities shall comply with fire, building, plumbing, electrical and all
other city, county, state and federal codes. Inspections during reasonable hours by city
officials may occur as necessary to assure compliance with regulations.
   •   Understand and will comply
E. Inventory: No stock in trade, inventory, or other merchandise to exceed two hundred
fifty (250) square feet shall be kept on the premises. No outside storage is allowed.
(Ord. 909, 7-21-2009)
   •   Understood, no stock exceeding 250 square feet will be kept on the premises.
F. Modification Of Structures Or Yards: There shall be no visible evidence from the
exterior of a dwelling that it is being used for any other purpose than that of a dwelling.
No activities shall be carried on outside the dwelling in the yard for the benefit of or
incidental to the home occupation. No front yard area shall be altered to provide parking
required for a home occupation. (Ord. 1132, 2-17-2015)
   •   No there will no visible evidence on the exterior nor will activities be carried out
       on the outside of the dwelling.
G. Nuisance: Tools, items, equipment, or activities conducted within the dwelling which
is offensive or noxious by reason of the emission of odor, smoke, gas, vibration,
magnetic interference, or noise shall be prohibited.
   •   Understood, and will comply. No loud machinery is used. The business does not
       create emissions of odor, smoke, gas, vibration, magnetic interference, or noise.
H. Secondary Use: The home occupation shall be clearly incidental and secondary to
the primary use of the dwelling for residential purposes. The home occupation shall not
disrupt the normal residential character of the neighborhood in which the residence is
located. Not more than twenty five percent (25%) of the dwelling unit shall be used for
the home occupation.
   •   No more than 25% of the dwelling will be used for the purpose of the business
       and is secondary to the primary use of the building.
I. Signs: All signage in a residential area must comply with chapter 26, "Signs", of this
title.
   •   No signs will be used on the property.
J. Traffic, Parking, And Access: No home occupation use shall generate pedestrian,
parking, or vehicular traffic in excess of that customarily associated with the zone in
which the use is located. All parking shall be provided and maintained on site with
adequate provision for drop off traffic.
   •   There will be no additional pedestrian or vehicle traffic associated with the
       business.
K. Vehicles: Other than the business owner's personal transportation, there shall be no
vehicles or equipment on the property associated with the home occupation which
would not normally be found at a residence. No signage for the home occupation shall
be allowed on vehicles.
   •   No vehicles other than those for the business owners personal transportation will
       be on the property.
L. Yards: Yards surrounding the dwelling and accessory buildings shall not be used for
any activities or storage of any materials associated with the home occupation.
   •   The yard and area around the building will not be used for business activities or
       storage for the business.
M. Customers: No customers allowed. Children accessing a limited daycare or limited
preschool facility shall not be considered customers.
   •   No customers will be on the property.
N. Utility Demand: The home occupation shall not cause a demand for public utilities in
excess of that necessarily and customarily provided for residential uses.
   •   No additional utility demand will be required for the business.
O. Main Structure: The home occupations shall be conducted, located, and contained
within the primary structure on the property. (Ord. 909, 7-21-2009)
   •   The business operations will be contained within the primary structure.
P. Single-Family And Multiple-Family Dwellings: Home occupations listed as permitted
or conditional within this title may be permitted in a single-family or a multiple-family
dwelling, subject to the standards found within this section and section 9-34-060 of this
chapter. Businesses within multiple-family dwellings shall provide an approval letter
from the respective homeowners' association, or management company in the case of
apartments, if the business proposes any employees, customers or business vehicles.
(Ord. 1132, 2-17-2015)
   •   Understood. Home is not associated with an HOA or management company.
Q. Licensure: Any home occupation involving childcare shall comply with all applicable
state and local laws and regulations regarding residential childcare, including, but not
limited to, provisions of the Utah child care licensing act, as set forth in Utah Code
Annotated section 26-39-101 et seq., as amended, and the residential certificate
childcare standards as set forth in the Utah administrative code section R430-50-1 et
seq., as amended. In addition, cottage food production operations are regulated and
inspected by the Utah department of agriculture. Any food related home occupation
under their jurisdiction must comply with these regulations. (Ord. 909, 7-21-2009)
   •   Business is not associated with childcare or cottage food production.




Please answer the questions below. You must explain how your proposal will
meet the standards listed below. If it does not apply explain why (N/A is not a
valid response).
   Helpful resources and relevant information can be found in the following links
   •   the general plan can be accessed by following this link:
       https://www.draperutah.gov/media/x1wekkss/draper-city-general-plan-v2024.pdf)

   •   Title 9 (Land Use And Development Regulations) of The Draper City Code can be accessed
       by following this link:
       https://codelibrary.amlegal.com/codes/draperut/latest/draper_ut/0-0-0-29634

   •   Draper City Zoning maps can be accessed by following this link:
       https://experience.arcgis.com/experience/601a6dd2a14c4739a90f4eac930a9528



PLEASE PROVIDE YOUR ANSWER(S) AT THE BULLET POINT LOCATED BELOW EACH SECTION

9-5-080(E:4) CONDITIONAL USE PERMITS
The following factors shall be reviewed and considered in determining whether a
conditional use permit application should be approved, approved with conditions, or
denied because reasonable conditions cannot be imposed to achieve compliance with
applicable standards:
a. The harmony and compliance of the proposed use with the objectives and
requirements of the city's general plan and this title;
   •   This sentence doesn’t really make much sense but the business will not affect
       Draper cities “General Plan” as specified on the Draper city Website.
b. The suitability of the specific property for the proposed use;
   •   The property is suitable and has adequate space for the business.
c. Whether the proposed use or facility may be injurious to potential or existing
development in the vicinity;
   •   The business will not affect potential existing development as the business will
       be contained entirely within the home.
d. The economic impact of the proposed facility or use on the surrounding area;
   •   The business will not have a negative economic impact on the proposed facility
       or surrounding area.
e. The aesthetic impact of the proposed facility or use on the surrounding area;
   •   The business will not have any significant or permanent aesthetic impact on the
       facility or surrounding area.
f. The safeguards proposed or provided to ensure adequate utilities, transportation
access, drainage, parking, loading space, lighting, screening, landscaping, open space,
fire protection, and pedestrian and vehicular circulation;
   •   No additional needs are needed to run the business other than what is currently
       available at the home.
g. The safeguards provided or proposed to prevent noxious or offensive emissions
such as noise, glare, dust, pollutants and odor from the proposed facility or use;
   •   No significant noise, glare, dust, pollutants and odor will be generated by the
       business.
h. The impact of the proposed facility or use on the health, safety, and welfare of the
city, the area, and persons owning or leasing property in the area.
   •   There will be no impact on the health or welfare of the city, area, or persons
       owning or leasing property in the area. Note that this business is a small scale
       producer of engraved and printed items. No machinery larger than what can fit on
       a desk will be used by this business.
