MINUTES OF THE DRAPER CITY PLANNING COMMISSION MEETING HELD ON
THURSDAY, JULY 31, 2025, IN THE DRAPER CITY COUNCIL CHAMBERS

PARTICIPATING: Andrew Adams, Chair
               Commission Member Gary Ogden
               Commission Member Susan Nixon
               Commission Member Kendra Shirey
               Commission Member Mary Squire
               Alternate Commission Member Christine Green

NOT SITTING:          Alternate Commission Member Laura Fidler

EXCUSED:              Lisa Fowler, Vice-Chair
                      Alternate Commission Member Shivam Shah

STAFF:                Jennifer Jastremsky, Community Development Director
                      Todd Draper, Planning Manager
                      Nick Whittaker, City Planner
                      Todd Taylor, City Planner
                      Paul Geilman, Planning Coordinator
                      Lori Stout, Executive Assistant
                      Brien Maxfield, Senior Engineering Manager
                      Spencer DuShane, Assistant City Attorney

6:30 PM Business Meeting

Chair Andrew Adams called the Planning Commission Meeting to order at 6:30 PM. He expressed
appreciation for the work that the staff does before each meeting to prepare the reports and post the
necessary notices. He also took a moment to thank commissioners and members of the community.

1.     Items for Commission Consideration.

       A.      Public Hearing: Indigo Tech Center Zoning Map Amendment Request.
               (Administrative Action)
               On the request of Jeremy Pixton, representing Mashies Golf Lounge, LLC a Zoning
               Map Amendment from the CO2 (Professional Office) Zone to the CR (Regional
               Commercial) Zone for approximately 2.84 acres. Located at approximately 14198
               South Minuteman Drive, known as Application 2025-0131-MA. Staff Contact: Paul
               Geilman, (801)-576-6551, paul.geilman@draperutah.gov.

Planning Coordinator, Paul Geilman, presented the Staff Report and explained that this is a Zoning
Map Amendment request. The Vicinity Map was presented, and the applicant's property was
highlighted. The location is approximately 14198 South Minuteman Drive. The Land Use Map was
shared, and it was noted that the request is to rezone from the CO2 (Professional Office) Zone to the
CR (Regional Commercial) Zone. The land use is congruent with the proposed zone change, so no
land use amendment is needed. There are additional uses permitted or allowed as conditional uses in
the CR Zone. The use for which the applicant has expressed interest is the Recreation and
Entertainment Indoor use. The applicant is present at the meeting to answer questions.
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
July 31, 2025
Page 2


Commissioner Nixon noted that the meeting agenda references 14198 South Minuteman Drive, but
that address does not exist. There is a 14193, 14197, and 14203. She drove in the area and also
checked the County records for the address, but 14198 is not on any of the buildings. Mr. Geilman
indicated that the address is the address for the overall property. Planning Manager, Todd Draper
indicated that the address is listed as approximate, and that it is the correct approximate address and
staff could check on it further. Chair Adams invited the applicant to add any additional information
about the application.

The applicant, Jeremy Pixton, reported that there are three buildings in the complex. Chair Adams
explained that Staff can double-check the exact location, but the word “approximately” is used in the
Staff Report. As a result, the address itself will not impact the application that has been submitted.

Chair Adams opened the public hearing. There were no comments. The public hearing was closed.

Motion: Commissioner Squire moved to forward a POSITIVE RECOMMENDATION to the
City Council for the Zoning Map Amendment, as requested by Jeremy Pixton, representing
Mashies Golf Lounge, LLC, Application 2025-0131-MA, based on the following findings:

Findings for Approval:

       1.      The proposed Zoning Map Amendment is consistent with the goals, objectives,
               and policies of the City’s General Plan.

       2.      The proposed Zoning Map Amendment is harmonious with the overall character
               of existing development in the vicinity of the subject property.

       3.      The proposed Zoning Map Amendment is consistent with the standards of any
               applicable Overlay Zone.

       4.      The proposed Zoning Map Amendment will not adversely affect adjacent
               property.

       5.      There are adequate facilities and services intended to serve the subject property,
               including, but not limited to, roadways, parks and recreation facilities, police and
               fire protection, schools, stormwater drainage systems, water supplies, and
               wastewater and refuse collection.

Second: Commissioner Shirey seconded the motion.

Vote on Motion: 5-to-0 in favor.
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
July 31, 2025
Page 3


         Commissioner        Yes    No     Abstained      Not Participating     Absent
         Chair Adams                       X
         Fowler                                                                 X
         Squire              X
         Nixon               X
         Shirey              X
         Ogden               X
         Fidler, Alternate                                X
         Shah, Alternate                                                        X
         Green, Alternate    X

Note: Item 1B on the meeting agenda was presented after Item 1C on the agenda at the request of
Staff. Following the discussion on Item 1C, the Conditional Use Permit (“CUP”) request for Jiffy
Lube (Item 1B) was reviewed.

       B.      Public Hearing: Jiffy Lube Conditional Use Permit Request.
               (Administrative Action)
               On the request of Robert Poirier of McNeil Engineering, representing Don Ballard and
               Lube Management Corp., a request for approval of a Conditional Use Permit for a
               Limited Vehicle Repair business on approximately 0.32 acres. Located at 681 East
               12300 South, known as Application 2025-0138-USE. Staff Contact: Todd Taylor,
               (801) 576-6510, todd.taylor@draperutah.gov.

City Planner, Todd Taylor, presented the Staff Report. He shared the Vicinity Map and pointed out
the location of the property, which is located at 681 East 12300 South. An Aerial Map was shown as
well as the Land Use Map. The property is Neighborhood Commercial and is located in the CC
(Community Commercial) Zone. The site is surrounded by properties zoned CC on all sides. The
proposal is a CUP for Vehicle Repair, Limited. The following definition was read:

   •   Vehicle Repair, Limited:
          o An establishment providing motor vehicle repair or maintenance services within
              completely enclosed buildings, including paint and body shops or other general vehicle
              repair services, which have no storage, overnight or otherwise, of vehicles, equipment,
              supplies, parts, or inventory outside of the building.

The applicant has submitted a Draft Site Plan along with the CUP application. The Site Plan is still
under review, but it shows the proposed Jiffy Lube building towards the front of the property, roughly
centered. The Draft Elevations were shared for reference. Staff is recommending Conditions of
Approval for the CUP application. The five proposed Conditions of Approval were read aloud.

Mr. Taylor further reviewed the Aerial Map and explained that during a review of the Site Plan, it
became known that there is a property boundary issue between this property and the flower shop to
the east. As a result, the Site Plan item on the agenda is proposed to be continued until that property
boundary issue is resolved. If the Planning Commission approves the CUP, it will only be for the
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
July 31, 2025
Page 4

portion of the property currently identified by the County Records. In discussions with the applicant,
there is a desire to move forward with the current application and come back with another CUP
application in the future when the Planning Commission considers the Site Plan. That will be
following the resolution of the property boundary issue and would then cover the entire site.

There was a discussion about continuations. Assistant City Attorney, Spencer DuShane, explained
that CUPs are by law in privity of the state. Right now, the applicant can only receive a CUP for the
property as the applicant currently owns it and as it is recorded on the Salt Lake County Recorder’s
Office records. If the applicant acquires that sliver of property indicated on the Aerial Map, then that
part of the property would not have a CUP. The use of the property requires a CUP, so the applicant
would need to come in and receive a separate CUP for that sliver of property. Community
Development Director Jennifer Jastremsky confirmed that the applicant is already aware of this.

Commissioner Nixon stated that she had a difficult time voting on a CUP application with a Draft
Site Plan submitted. It was clarified that the Site Plan is not what the Commission is voting on at this
time. Commissioner Nixon pointed out that it is part of the application, and the Commission can
consider it. Chair Adams stated that the applicant can choose how they would like to proceed.

The applicant representatives, Kirk Umphrey and Justin Soha, introduced themselves to the
Commission. The ALTA Survey stated that the property line was down the fence line, so he does not
believe there is a property line dispute, but there is a bit of confusion that needs to be resolved. Their
title company has looked at this and is willing to insure the title to the fence line. Mr. Umphrey
believes this is something that can be resolved in the next few days. Some work is being done with
Mr. DuShane, so the City feels comfortable. They request that the Commission approve the Jiffy
Lube on that site, subject to Site Plan approval. In the future, they will return with the property line
issue resolved and the Site Plan.

Commissioner Nixon stated that the address on the application is 681 East, but there is no 681 East.
She believes this is 673 East and wanted to know what the address will be as this moves forward. It
was clarified that there are multiple buildings on the property, so there are multiple addresses.

Chair Adams opened the public hearing.

Nate Ballard explained that he is present to represent his father, who is the current owner of the
property. The loss of the Iceberg is bittersweet, but his father was ready to retire and sell the property.
He is hopeful that this moves forward. Unfortunately, there has been a bit of an issue with the property
line, but he believes that it will be a simple fix. There is a limited amount of space available on the
parcel, but Jiffy Lube is a suitable use. He stated that this will be beneficial for all involved.

There were no further comments. The public hearing was closed.

There were discussions about the process moving forward. Ms. Jastremsky suggested that language
in the motion state that “the CUP is for the property lines shown on the County Records and any
additional property would need to have a separate CUP.” Chair Adams pointed out that it would only
be if property were added to what is currently owned. Commissioner Nixon thought it would be
cleaner to have an amendment to a CUP come forward rather than two separate CUPs.
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
July 31, 2025
Page 5

Ms. Jastremsky clarified that it would be the same process, as the City has no amended CUP
application. Mr. Umphrey added that if it is determined that the line drawn is incorrect and the
property line is located where the fence line is shown, then the CUP process will not need to be done
again.

Motion: Commissioner Ogden moved to APPROVE the CUP as requested by Robert Poirier
of McNeil Engineering, representing Don Ballard and Lube Management Corp., Application
2025-0138-USE, based on the following Findings for Approval and Conditions of Approval.
The CUP proposed to be approved is based on the current Salt Lake County property line
records. Any additional property added to the parcel will need to obtain a separate CUP.

Findings for Approval:

       1.      The proposal complies with the standards for approval found in DCMC Section
               9-5080(E), and potential negative impacts are mitigated through the imposition
               of reasonable conditions.

Conditions of Approval:

       1.      That all requirements of the Draper City Engineering, Public Works, Building,
               Planning, and Fire Divisions are satisfied throughout the development of the site
               and the construction of all buildings on the site, including permitting.

       2.      That a Draper City Business License shall be obtained prior to operating and
               shall be maintained by the business owner for as long as the business remains in
               operation.

       3.      That there shall be no noise, glare, dust, pollutants, odor, or other impacts
               discernible outside of the building.

       4.      That there shall be no storage, overnight or otherwise, of vehicles, equipment,
               supplies, parts, or inventory outside of the building.

       5.      That prior to Site Plan approval by the Planning Commission, the applicant shall
               submit a revised Landscaping and Irrigation Plan which complies with DCMC
               Chapter 9-23, and a revised Lighting Plan which complies with DCMC Chapter
               9-20.

Second: Commissioner Shirey seconded the motion.

Vote on Motion: 5-to-0 in favor.
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
July 31, 2025
Page 6


          Commissioner        Yes    No     Abstained      Not Participating      Absent
          Chair Adams                       X
          Fowler                                                                  X
          Squire              X
          Nixon               X
          Shirey              X
          Ogden               X
          Fidler, Alternate                                X
          Shah, Alternate                                                         X
          Green, Alternate    X

       C.      Public Hearing: Follis Transport, LLC Home Occupation Conditional Use
               Permit Request.
               (Administrative Action)
               On the request of George Follis, representing Follis Transport, LLC. A Home
               Occupation Conditional Use Permit regarding the operation of a home office that
               provides trucking services for approximately 0.74 acres. Located at 11747 South 300
               East, known as Application 2024-0349-USE. Staff Contact: Nick Whittaker, (801)
               576-6522, nick.whittaker@draperutah.gov.

City Planner Nick Whittaker presented the Staff Report and explained that this is a Home Occupation
CUP request for Follis Transport, LLC. The Vicinity Map and Aerial Map were shared. It is an
unusually shaped property with a flag-like shape. The Land Use Map was shared. Mr. Whittaker
reported that the land use is Residential Medium Density, and it is in the RA1 (Residential
Agricultural) Zone. The Site Plan provided by the applicant was reviewed. The applicant is hoping
to operate a trucking business from his home. The administrative portion of the business will be
operated in a room in the basement of the home. Part of the request is to use the flagpole portion of
the lot to store four trailers and one vehicle. Existing conditions photographs were shared.

Mr. Whittaker reviewed the existing conditions and photographs in more detail and pointed out the
front yard storage area where the applicant would like to store four trailers and one vehicle. An image
of the existing front yard fence was shown, which provides screening. However, it was noted that the
fence is not compliant with Draper City Code. As a condition of approval, it is recommended that
the applicant bring the fence into compliance. Chair Adams asked what would make the fence
compliant. Mr. Whittaker clarified that it is difficult to know that, because there was no permit or
conditional use permit for the fence. In the front yard, there cannot be a fence that is higher than four
feet. Commissioner Nixon asked if it would need to be set back more or reduced in height to meet
code. Chair Adams asked if this application for a conditional use permit could allow for a taller fence
in the front yard. Mr. Whittaker reported that additional work would need to be done with the staff to
determine what the code would allow.

Mr. Whittaker reported that in the Site Plan, the applicant points out two areas where the trucks tow
the trailers into the designated front yard area. One of them is on the south side. There is an entrance
off Kimballs Lane. This entrance appears to be used to access the utility box. The second driveway
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
July 31, 2025
Page 7

would be required to be at least 40 feet from the intersection. Mr. Whittaker shared an image of the
north side, which is another area where the vehicles are pulled into the desired parking area.

The Impact Analysis and Mitigation information was shared. Identified potential impacts include:

   •   Large trailers and vehicles entering and exiting the property impact pedestrian safety.
   •   Vehicles and trailers stored on the unpaved front yard parking area, stirring up dust and
       spreading gravel on the roads and sidewalks, causing unstable and potentially hazardous
       surfaces to pedestrians and vehicles;
   •   Pedestrian blind spots caused by the illegal front yard fencing;
   •   Business vehicles and trailers parked on the street;
   •   Noticeable storing of vehicles, inventory, and supplies in yard areas;
   •   Noticeable storing of freight, cargo, and shipments;
   •   Noticeably modified yard;
   •   Size and scale of the utilized front yard area detracting from the residential use; and
   •   Nuisance from vehicle emissions, dust from the gravel surface, and generating noise when
       hitching and unhitching trailers.

Staff finds that potential ways to mitigate the impacts mentioned are as follows:

   •   That all requirements of the Draper City Engineering, Public Works, Building, Planning, and
       Fire Divisions are satisfied;
   •   That a Draper City Business License shall be obtained and maintained by the applicant;
   •   That no more than four (4) work trailers and one (1) work trust being utilized for the home-
       based business shall be parked at the property;
   •   That the four (4) work trailers and one (1) work truck shall not be parked in the street;
   •   That only one (1) work truck shall be parked in a designated stall per an approved Site Plan;
   •   That the drive approach facing Kimballs Lane shall not be used for vehicular access by the
       property owner;
   •   That the applicant shall obtain a Conditional Use Permit to bring the illegal fencing located in
       the front yard into compliance;
   •   That no business deliveries shall be received at the property;
   •   That no business deliveries shall be shipped from the property;
   •   That no business deliveries shall be stored at the property;
   •   That the parking area shall be paved with cement or asphalt;
   •   That the size of the parking area shall not exceed 5,000 square feet;
   •   That the days of the week in which the home business may operate shall be limited to Monday
       through Saturday;
   •   That the hours of operation shall be limited to 8:00 a.m. through 6:00 p.m.; and
   •   That no customers shall come to the home.

Mr. Whittaker shared a photograph of the exterior of the primary structure, pointing out the location
of the fenced area, which is situated on the south side of the home. Commissioner Squire noted that
there are often screening requirements put in place. She can appreciate that the purpose of the existing
fence is to screen the use, but wonders how screening could be required that would essentially violate
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
July 31, 2025
Page 8

the City Code. It was noted that the Planning Commission is required to assess the residential
character of the neighborhood to determine if the proposed business has detrimental effects. If
conditions can be imposed to mitigate those detrimental effects, then those can be imposed. That
being said, those conditions cannot be unlawful, which includes those that violate the ordinances in
the City.

Mr. Whittaker informed the Commission that there is a history of land use violations on the subject
property. Chair Adams requested additional information about past violations. Mr. DuShane clarified
that it is not appropriate for the Planning Commission to consider previous violations when making
a decision on an application and to disregard the previous comment from staff. He advised the
Commission to focus on what is relevant to the current proposal. Commissioner Nixon believed that
for a fence to meet the City Code, it would need to be set back a certain amount to be in line with the
dwelling, however, that would make the area too narrow to utilize for the business. Commissioner
Squire noted that a taller fence would have to be behind the front line of the house. There was a
discussion about the application and what the Commission is able to do. It was reiterated that the
impact of the use would need to be mitigated through conditions. Chair Adams invited the applicant
to present additional information to the Planning Commission regarding the business.

The applicant, George Follis, introduced himself to the Planning Commission. He moved into the
home in 2002. At that time, there was no landscaping at all, and the road had only been put in a year
or two before. The sidewalk along the 356-feet of frontage was lower by about 18 inches, so he called
Code Enforcement and asked them about bringing in fill dirt to make it level so there would not be a
safety hazard. He was informed that he could. At the time, he had personal trailers and an RV at the
site. He mentioned that he knew it was not legal to park in the front yard, but only about 2-3 feet
would be legal.

Mr. Follis reported that he spoke to the Code Enforcement Officer about the shape of the lot. A
meeting was arranged for Mr. Follis to speak to the Planning Department when they were at the old
City Hall down the street. During that conversation, he was told that this portion of his property was
a side yard and was not considered the front yard. On a side yard, it is possible to have a 6-foot fence.
He indicated that the Planning Department told him that the 6-foot fence could be installed. He had
a friend put a semi-trailer on the property to sell it. He has not had a problem with violations for two
decades until now, with one for parking. Mr. Follis reported that he also received a violation for not
having a business license. He was on the road most of the time and staying in hotels and he did not
know that he needed a business license for this use and accrued $800 dollars in fines. Mr. Follis
reported that it has been frustrating not to be able to use the piece of land that he owns. It is an odd
piece of land compared to the other lots in Draper.

Chair Adams noted some Conex trailers in the rear yard and asked if Mr. Follis could run the business
using that location instead. Mr. Follis indicated that he could not. Chair Adams asked about the
trailers currently shown on the site in the triangle to the east. Mr. Follis clarified that those are
personal items. Chair Adams asked to review the site plan and noted that the blue area is what is
fenced. Mr. Follis described the vehicle and the trailers that are used for his work. He informed the
Commission that he drives in and out of the area shown in blue once a week. He put in gravel and
improved the area to prevent dust. It was dirt before, which created dust and mud, which was the
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
July 31, 2025
Page 9

reason he improved the site. The applicant reported that a lot of time and money have been spent
improving the land so it can be used.

Chair Adams asked whether it is possible to park a trailer in the front yard. Planning Manager, Todd
Draper, noted that trailers and recreational vehicles are required to be parked behind the front wall
plane of the house. Chair Adams would like to see what the City Code states, so there is more clarity
about what the applicant can have in the front yard. There was a discussion about screening. Mr.
Draper noted that it is possible to screen with landscaping and that there are other options available
to the Planning Commission.

Mr. Follis discussed the curb cutout on the side of Kimball's Lane. That has been there since the road
was installed, and it has been his access to that side of his property. The utilities were put in after he
moved in and he sold that area to the utilities. Chair Adams believed it is an access cutout for his
property, as there is no other reason for it to be there. There was some uncertainty among staff
regarding whether the approach constitutes legal access to the property. Mr. Whittaker pointed out
that having access that close to an intersection would not be permitted, because at least 40 feet is
required. Chair Adams acknowledged that a lot has changed since the installation. Ms. Jastremsky
indicated that there were concerns about large vehicles exiting next to the intersection and crosswalk,
presenting a safety hazard. Chair Adams understood why the Condition of Approval related to that
was drafted.

Chair Adams wondered whether landscaped screening would be appropriate. Mr. Whittaker
explained that it is up to the applicant to determine what is best and then provide that to the Staff for
consideration and review. Mr. Follis reported that the fence was agreed upon previously due to the
odd shape of the lot. It is not a front yard. He clarified that it has never been treated as a front yard
and does not appear as a front yard. Chair Adams suggested pausing this application to review the
options. He wondered whether the public hearing should be held, but then left it open so there can
be additional comments made when this item comes back to the Planning Commission. Ms.
Jastremsky stated that it is up to the Planning Commission to determine that.

Mr. DuShane explained that whether the application is continued will ultimately be up to the applicant
to decide. The Commission shall approve, approve with conditions, or deny the application. If the
public hearing is held, the Commission needs to make a decision. If the decision is made to deny the
application, then the applicant will have to start the application process over again. Once the public
hearing is opened, the Commission will need to vote on the item. Commissioners discussed whether
additional time to review this item would be productive. Commissioner Squire noted that it appears
that the Staff has invested considerable time in the application, which raises uncertainty about whether
continuing the item would be beneficial.

Mr. Whittaker reported that the Staff has been working on this application for almost a full year. In
terms of changing the design or changing how the applicant would operate the business from the
property, that would be up to the applicant. As far as what has been shared with the Commission
during this meeting, the information has been put together over a long time. Chair Adams wanted to
know what a solution could be. Commissioners believed the most appropriate approach was to take
a vote.
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
July 31, 2025
Page 10

It was noted that the City Code has certain language the definition of front yard, how high the fence
can be, and how to mitigate potential uses. Chair Adams expressed frustration that a private property
owner came to the City in 2002 and was told something that is now completely different. The code
has changed, and now there is a front yard that essentially acts as a side yard, but cannot be used. He
wants to look into solutions. Commissioner Squire noted that there might not be a positive solution.
The decision needs to be based on what has been presented to the Commission in the staff report.
Chair Adams asked if it was possible to subdivide, staff indicated that subdividing was not possible.

Commissioner Nixon noted that the area requested for the Home Occupation is 5,000 square feet,
which is larger than the area of the home itself. Typically, for this type of application, the Commission
considers areas that are 300 or 500 square feet. She has concerns about the size of the area.
Commissioner Nixon asked if the applicant lives in the home, which was confirmed. Mr. Follis
informed her that there are no employees besides himself. There is one vehicle and one trailer at a
time that is coming or going. He thought he was doing everything correctly with the City and never
had an issue until last year. Each time he submits something, it takes four to six months to hear back.
The previous two times that he resubmitted, he made a lot of calls, and it went through much faster,
but it has still taken many months to make it to this point. He does not understand the purpose of this
meeting if nothing can be done. It was noted that the Staff is not responsible for creating a plan for
the applicant. Commissioner Shirey indicated that the staff can give their guidance, but that ultimately
the matter is decided by the Planning Commission. Mr. Follis explained that if the use is not possible,
then that should have been communicated previously. In addition, the first time he heard anything
negative about the fence or its placement was immediately before the current meeting.

Mr. Follis discussed the citations that he received previously, which were related to parking and not
having a business license. He was not aware he needed a business license because he was operating
from his home. He submitted the business license, but then got a fine. He paid over $800 in fines and
spent over $8,000 improving the lot. Based on what has been stated during the Planning Commission
Meeting, it sounds like the proposed use is not possible. Chair Adams asked the Staff if anyone had
mentioned previously that the fence cannot be in the front yard. Ms. Jastremsky stated that she had
mentioned the fencing to Mr. Follis in multiple conversations about complaints that were filed. She
did some research on the fencing. When that fence was installed in the early 2000s, the code did not
allow for it, which means the fencing was non-compliant when installed initially.

Commissioner Shirey asked if there was anything in the code that would suggest that portion of the
property could have been considered as a side yard as opposed to a front yard, or if the Planning
Commission could consider it to be a side yard. Ms. Jastremsky reported that under the code, anything
along the street front is considered to be a front yard. Mr. DuShane added that this specific matter is
outside the scope of the Planning Commission's authority to decide. Mr. Follis reiterated that he has
never been cited for the fence, and he does not recall it being mentioned by Staff.

Ahead of the public hearing, Commissioner Nixon reported that the Planning Commission received
several emails from adjacent property owners. Those emails were reviewed before the meeting.

Chair Adams opened the public hearing.
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
July 31, 2025
Page 11

Terry Sommerdyke explained that she submitted an email comment to the Planning Commission, but
is present to share additional comments. She lives near the applicant property. Ms. Sommerdyke
requested that the Planning Commission deny the request. While she understands this is being
presented as a home office use, this is not just an administrative operation. Follis Transport, LLC, is
a business tied to logistics, trucking, and freight activities that are inherently incompatible with a
quiet, family-oriented community. The neighborhood has high-value single-family homes that sit
adjacent to the Catholic school campus. Children walk past the property every day on their way to
school and to the nearby parks. Introducing a commercial use, especially one tied to trucking, raises
serious safety concerns. It also disrupts the residential character. Approving this application would
set a dangerous precedent and would open the door to other home-based commercial ventures that
are not appropriate for residential settings. The applicant could efficiently operate their business from
a commercial or industrial zoned property that is designed for this kind of activity. Ms. Sommerdyke
asked that the application be denied.

Robert Wheat stated that he is a resident who has lived in the neighborhood for over 10 years. He
respectfully disagrees with the previous comment that was shared. This is an application he feels
should be supported. That specific strip of land has been the best-maintained part of the street. It is
always weed-free and there is no dust. The use does not impact the sightlines or safety. Landscape
screening with trees, shrubbery, and natural hedge, which is recommended for front yards, would be
more detrimental to sightlines. He understands the issue with fencing due to the code language, but
the fence is effective for screening. Mr. Follis has been a good neighbor and is always willing to
listen to feedback. Mr. Wheat has an issue with telling a property owner how they can and cannot
use their property. He expressed support for the application and recommended that it be approved.

Mary Schuman explained that she has lived in the neighborhood since 2005. She asked if there are
any specifics in the application about the size of the trailers that are proposed to be stored. There
have been semi-trucks and trailers on that property listed for sale. The home also appears to be
functioning as a short-term rental property. She passes by there at least three times per week, and
there are always vehicles with out-of-state plates. Ms. Schuman asked if it is permissible for one
residence to operate several different businesses. As for the area, she cannot think of a more
inappropriate place for vehicles of that size to enter and exit the property. She pointed out that it is
directly across the street from the Catholic school center and church. Dozens of children walk through
there every morning and afternoon. It is a beautiful neighborhood, and she loves the fact that it is
residential. Ms. Schuman believes the proposed application is inappropriate.

Shelly Carver reported that her home was completed in 1997, and her family has lived there since
that time. She stated that the applicant's property is an eyesore. She agrees with the comments shared
by Ms. Shuman that large vehicles are frequently parked there. If this application is approved, it will
allow similar uses to happen, which could impact the property values. Contrary to what was stated
earlier, this is not the only flag lot in Draper. There are flag lots located in other areas of the city as
well, and she did not believe those lots have this kind of business use on them.

Ms. Carver believes that Mr. Follis had a period of due diligence before purchasing the property,
since it was clear that this is an irregularly shaped lot. Additionally, she does not believe that running
a home business like this, especially when the home is located near a school, is wise. Additional
traffic could impact the area, especially since there are already traffic issues in the neighborhood. Ms.
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
July 31, 2025
Page 12

Carver is a business owner, but out of respect for her neighbors, she has not conducted business out
of her home. In the past, some neighbors have run businesses out of their homes, which has brought
unnecessary traffic to the area, including parked vehicles and questionable individuals. Ms. Carver
suspected that someone had previously reported what was happening on the applicant's property.
There were semi-trailers parked there, along with various vehicles for sale. In addition, there was a
homeless encampment. Based on the information provided, she asked that the Planning Commission
deny this application.

Rex Myers lives in the neighborhood and has been there since the beginning. Mr. Follis purchased
the property 20 years ago, and the approach was there 25 years ago. He clarified that there has never
been a homeless encampment there. He believes a fence all the way along would be beneficial
because it would shield everything. It doesn't make sense to have landscaping there since the fence
already looks good in terms of ingress and egress, which he believes has been grandfathered in for a
long time. Draper City built this lot, approved it, and Mr. Follis purchased the property. Mr. Myers
agrees with the applicant and feels the City should allow him to use the property. The vehicles the
applicant has are no different than other vehicles in the area. Just because he runs a transport business
does not mean he will store goods on the site. He expressed frustration about this situation, as it does
not seem fair for the applicant to have to pay fines and fees when his property is maintained better
than most. Mr. Follis is a good friend, neighbor, and person, and he would like to see this application
approved.

Tim Wong is a resident who has lived to the northeast of this property since 2002. He is familiar with
this neighborhood and the subject property. He remembers what it looked like before the fence went
up and the improvements were made. Based on what he has heard during the Planning Commission
Meeting, it sounds like some expectations were set for Mr. Follis when he purchased the property,
before the codes were clarified. It sounds like things have since changed. Mr. Follis is working in
good faith to bring the current activity on the site into compliance. Mr. Wong does not believe it
detracts from the neighborhood and feels the fence screens it well. He has not observed any instances
of nuisances or dangerous driving and has encouraged the Planning Commission to consider a path
forward so the applicant can continue this use on the property. It is unfortunate that a property owner
may not be able to utilize a significant portion of their property.

There were no further comments. The public hearing was closed.

Mr. Follis was invited back to respond to the comments made during the public hearing. He pointed
out that many of the comments were positive, which is reflective of the work that he has put into the
property. He has continually improved the site since he has lived there. Mr. Follis reiterated that he
has always tried to comply with the City requirements. From the beginning, he believed that he had
received approval through the Planning Department. The fence is almost 20 years old, and he
acknowledges that some work needs to be done there. That was something he planned to improve
before all of this happened.

Mr. Follis informed the Commission that this section of his property is not a front yard, even though
it technically may fall into that category. It cannot be used as a front yard, because it is not even in
front of his house. It is a side yard, and as a side yard, it can have a 6-foot fence. The section of the
property was not previously considered a front yard, but it now appears to be viewed that way by the
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
July 31, 2025
Page 13

City. Mr. Follis reiterated that he has never been cited for the fence, and he does not remember it
having been mentioned to him before. This is the first time he has heard that the fence is in violation.
He has been cited once for weeds, once for parking, and once for not having a business license. There
have not been issues since.

Commissioner Squire asked for additional information about the business. Mr. Follis reported that
he drives a pickup truck and a 40-foot gooseneck trailer. He indicated that he had to register it
commercially because he drives it over the road. Commissioner Squire asked Mr. Follis what he
transports. He stated that he transports goods, equipment, and various items using a truck and trailer,
but these items are not brought to the home at any point. He leaves his home with the truck and trailer
and returns with the truck and trailer. Commissioners asked about the RV on the property in the
photos and if he lives in it. He indicated that it is a personal RV and is not used for the business.

Commissioner Squire wanted the applicant to speak to the comments made about semi-trucks. Mr.
Follis clarified that the items were placed on the site by a friend who wanted to sell them, unaware
that this was against the code. Once he was informed that it was, those were removed within two
days. Commissioner Squire noted that the plan indicates two access points, one on the north end and
one on the south. Staff has instructed the Commission that it is not possible to consider that south
access as part of the CUP, because it is not a legal access. She believes he has proposed it because it
is easier to get in and out using that access. If it is not possible to use that, she wanted to know if it
is still possible to get in and out. Mr. Follis reported that it is not possible to turn around on that
parcel. It can be backed in, but that is not how he has been accessing the site previously. It is easier
to pull through. Commissioner Squire explained that the Commission has some limitations. The
Commission can't consider this section as the side yard rather than the front.

Commissioner Squire thinks the applicant has operated in good faith. The fence is effective at
screening, but it cannot be considered due to the current requirements. Mr. Follis understands the
comments made by the Commission, but asked about grandfathered uses. Commissioner Squire
acknowledged that things have changed in Draper over the years, but that does not mean the Planning
Commission can overlook the regulations that are in place now. Mr. Whittaker reported that there is
a process that the applicant can apply for, which determines whether the use was historically
conforming. Commissioner Shirey asked regarding potential documentation that would outline
previous agreements with the City. That is something the Commission could take into consideration.
Mr. Follis reported that he no longer has that kind of documentation due to a divorce and he does not
have text messages from that time either.

There was additional discussion about the home occupation CUP application. Commissioner Squire
noted that, based on the comments received, there might be another business functioning in the home.
A question was asked of staff about whether someone is allowed to operate more than one business
on a residential property. Mr. Whittaker understands that it is possible to have more than one business
at home so long as the requirements of the home occupation are met. It was next asked of staff
whether an Airbnb or short-term rental in the home requires a business license or if that is considered
a home occupation. Ms. Jastremsky reported that an Airbnb is not regulated, so there is no permit or
licensing required. She clarified that a short-term rental is not considered to be a home occupation.
Commissioner Squire questioned that if the home was rented out as an Airbnb it was questionable as
to if the applicant really lived in the home and if a home based business license could even operate.
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
July 31, 2025
Page 14


Mr. Whittaker explained that if an Airbnb were rented out it would be required to be the entire house,
and it would likely not be possible to have a Home Occupation. He clarified that it would not be
possible for the applicant to live in the home and operate a home based business while also renting
out a portion of the home for an Airbnb. Mr. Draper clarified that if there was a legal second unit or
ADU (Accessory Dwelling Unit) there would not be a restriction on the occupant of the primary unit
having a home-based business. Commissioner Squire mentioned that the issue was likely moot.

Mr. Follis reported that the home is a three-level home. He rents out the main level and upper level
while he lives in the basement where his office is. There is an Airbnb manager who manages the
Airbnb. He knows nothing about the schedule. Mr. Follis re-stated that the main portion of the house
is rented out as an Airbnb and he lives in the basement. It was suggested that Mr. Follis stop talking
and not admit to other things that might create additional issues. It was reiterated that the Commission
discussion needed to remain focused on the home occupation CUP application and not the Airbnb.

Commissioner Nixon believes there is often a misconception about what a grandfathered use is.
When something is legally non-conforming, it means it had to have previously met the code.
However, according to the Staff, the codes for the front yard have not changed as far as the fencing
requirements since 2002. Based on the comments from Staff, there is a process that the applicant can
go through to determine whether something was historically conforming. Chair Adams believes that
2015 and 2019 are the years that reference the code as it is now. It was pointed out that, according
to the Staff, the fence was non-compliant at the time it was built.

There was additional discussion about the home occupation CUP application before the Commission.
Chair Adams requested Commissioner feedback on running the business as described, with the
mitigation measures presented by Staff. Commissioner Nixon noted that there is one section of the
Home Occupation Code that refers to the residential character. In her view, the proposed business
does not suit a residential area because it is a commercial transport business. She believes it changes
the character of this residential property. Commissioner Squire referenced the sightlines and blind
spots, the nearby school, and the traffic in the area. The reason tall fences aren’t allowed in the front
has to do with safety. Some of the comments received via email and during the public hearing are
concerning. She agrees that this kind of use changes the residential character.

Commissioner Ogden sympathizes with the applicant, as it appears he has made a genuine effort to
make this unique lot work. Unfortunately, he cannot think of a solution that makes sense based on
the current restrictions. The Commission further discussed the fence and the screening that is
currently on the site. Chair Adams asked for additional clarification on the minimum setbacks for the
fence and for screening. Mr. Draper noted that the trailer does need to be parked behind the front wall
plane, so a trailer would not be allowed to be parked in the front yard, whether it was for a commercial
business or residential use. It was clarified that the same applied to RVs. The Commissioners were
reminded of other difficult home occupation requests they have reviewed and denied in the past.

Motion: Commissioner Shirey moved to DENY the Home Occupational CUP as requested by
George Follis, representing Follis Transport, LLC, Application 2024-0349-USE, based on the
following Findings for Denial:
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
July 31, 2025
Page 15

       1.        The proposal does not comply with all standards for approval found in DCMC
                 Section 9-5-080(E) and potential negative impacts are not able to be sufficiently
                 mitigated through the imposition of reasonable conditions.

Second: Commissioner Nixon seconded the motion.

Vote on Motion: 5-to-0 in favor.

            Commissioner        Yes   No   Abstained      Not Participating    Absent
            Chair Adams                    X
            Fowler                                                             X
            Squire              X
            Nixon               X
            Shirey              X
            Ogden               X
            Fidler, Alternate                             X
            Shah, Alternate                                                    X
            Green, Alternate    X

       D.        Public Hearing: Jiffy Lube Site Plan Request.
                 (Administrative Action)
                 On the request of Robert Poirier of McNeil Engineering, representing Don Ballard and
                 Lube Management Corp., a request for approval of a Site Plan for a Limited Vehicle
                 Repair business on approximately 0.32 acres. Located at 681 East 12300 South,
                 known as Application No.: 2025-0139-SP. Staff Contact: Todd Taylor, (801) 576-
                 6510, todd.taylor@draperutah.gov.
                 (Application continued to a date uncertain.)

The item was continued to an uncertain date.

2.     Adjournment.

Motion: Commissioner Squire moved to ADJOURN.

The Chair adjourned the Planning Commission Meeting at 8:18 PM.
