MEMO
To: City Council
From: Jennifer Jastremsky, AICP
Date: 2025-09-02
Re: Public Hearing: Ordinance #1672


Comments:


This application is a request for approval of a Text Amendment to DCMC Section 9-3-040
The purpose of the rezone is to increase the number of children allowed in a home-based
Preschool, Limited Use.


The Planning Commission will review this item at their August 28, 2025 meeting. An
update on their recommendation will be provided at the Council meeting.

The findings are as follows:


For Approval:



  1. The proposed amendment is consistent with goals, objectives and policies of the
     city's general plan.
  2. The proposed amendment furthers the specific purpose statements of the zoning
     ordinance.
  3. The proposed amendment is appropriate given the context of the request and there
     is sufficient justification for a modification to the zoning ordinance;
  4. The proposed amendment will not create a conflict with any other section or part of
     this title or the general plan.
  5. The potential effects of the proposed amendment have been evaluated and
     determined not to be detrimental to public health, safety, or welfare and represents
     an overall community benefit.
  6. The proposed text amendment implements best current, professional practices of
     urban planning, design, and engineering practices.


For Denial:
  1. The proposed amendment does not further the specific purpose statements of the
     zoning ordinance.
  2. The proposed amendment is not appropriate given the context of the request and
     there is not sufficient justification for a modification to the zoning ordinance;
  3. The potential effects of the proposed amendment have been evaluated and
     determined to be detrimental to public health, safety, or welfare and does not
     represent an overall community benefit.
  4. The proposed text amendment does not implement best current, professional
     practices of urban planning, design, and engineering practices.


ATTACHMENTS:

Ord 1672- Preschools.pdf
ATTACHMENTS:

Preschool TA PC Staff Report -8-28-25 Combined.pdf
