     MINUTES OF THE DRAPER CITY PLANNING COMMISSION MEETING HELD ON
     THURSDAY, JULY 10, 2025, IN THE DRAPER CITY COUNCIL CHAMBERS

     PARTICIPATING: Commission Member Gary Ogden, Temporary Chairperson
                    Commission Member Susan Nixon
                    Commission Member Kendra Shirey
                    Alternate Commission Member Laura Fidler
                    Alternate Commission Member Shivam Shah

     EXCUSED:               Andrew Adams, Chair
                            Lisa Fowler, Vice-Chair
                            Commission Member Mary Squire
                            Alternate Commission Member Christine Green

F:   STAFF:                 Jennifer Jastremsky, Community Development Director
                            Todd Draper, Planning Manager
                            Nick Whittaker, City Planner
                            Todd Taylor, City Planner
                            Lori Stout, Executive Assistant
                            Brien Maxfield, Senior Engineering Manager
                            Spencer DuShane, Assistant City Attorney

     6:31 PM Business Meeting

     In the absence of Chair Andrew Adams and Vice-Chair Lisa Fowler, Community Development
     Director, Jennifer Jastremsky, called the meeting to order at 6:31 PM and instructed the
     Commissioners to elect a Temporary Chairperson for the evening.

     Motion: Commissioner Nixon moved that Commissioner Gary Ogden be named as
     Temporary Chairperson.

     Second: Commissioner Shirey seconded the motion.

     Vote on Motion: 5-to-0 in favor.

              Commissioner        Yes   No   Abstained   Not Participating   Absent
              Chair Adams                                                    X
              Fowler                                                         X
              Squire                                                         X
              Nixon               X
              Shirey              X
              Ogden               X
              Fidler, Alternate   X
              Shah, Alternate     X
              Green, Alternate                                               X
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
July 10, 2025
Page 2

Commissioner Ogden assumed the Chair and conducted the remainder of the meeting.

1.    Items for Commission Consideration.

      A.      Action Item: Approve Planning Commission Meeting Minutes for May 8,
              2025.
              (Administrative Action)

Motion: Commissioner Nixon moved to APPROVE the May 8, 2025, Planning Commission
Meeting Minutes, as presented.

Second: Commissioner Shah seconded the motion.

Vote on Motion: 5-to-0 in favor.

       Commissioner        Yes   No   Abstained    Not Participating   Absent
       Chair Adams                                                     X
       Fowler                                                          X
       Squire                                                          X
       Nixon               X
       Shirey              X
       Ogden               X
       Fidler, Alternate   X
       Shah, Alternate     X
       Green, Alternate                                                X

      B.      Action Item: Approve Planning Commission Meeting Minutes for May 22,
              2025.
              (Administrative Action)

Motion: Commissioner Shirey moved to APPROVE the May 22, 2025, Planning
Commission Meeting Minutes, as presented.

Second: Commissioner Nixon seconded the motion.

Vote on Motion: 5-to-0 in favor.
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
July 10, 2025
Page 3


        Commissioner        Yes    No    Abstained      Not Participating      Absent
        Chair Adams                                                            X
        Fowler                                                                 X
        Squire                                                                 X
        Nixon               X
        Shirey              X
        Ogden               X
        Fidler, Alternate   X
        Shah, Alternate     X
        Green, Alternate                                                       X

       C.      Public Hearing: Fratto Farms Commercial Land Use Map Amendment and
               Zoning Map Amendment Requests.
               (Legislative Item)
               On the request of Troy Dana, a Land Use Map Amendment from the Residential
               Medium Density to Neighborhood Commercial land use designation, and a Zoning
               Map Amendment from the RA2 (Residential Agricultural) to CN (Neighborhood
               Commercial) zone for approximately 2.03 acres, located at approximately 791 E.
               12200 South. Known as applications 2025-0101-MA and 2025-0102-MA. Staff
               Contact: Nick Whittaker, (801) 576-6522, Nick.Whittaker@Draperutah.gov.

City Planner, Nick Whittaker, presented the Staff Report and displayed the Vicinity Map showing
the location of the property. The applicant is requesting a change from the current land use
designation of Residential Medium-Density to Neighborhood Commercial. The surrounding
properties are currently zoned Neighborhood Commercial. The current zoning designation of the
subject property is RA2 (Residential Agricultural). The applicant is requesting a change to CN
(Neighborhood Commercial). The adjacent properties to the west and south are designated
Neighborhood Commercial. Mr. Whittaker reported that the purpose of the RA2 zone is to foster
low-density with little impact on the surroundings and municipal services to preserve the character
of the City’s rural areas and promote and preserve conditions that are favorable to large lot family
life, including the keeping of limited numbers of animals and fowl. The predominant use in the
zone is to be detached single-family dwellings protected from encroachment by commercial and
industrial uses. The purpose of the CN zone is to provide areas where convenience, buying outlets,
and small trade areas may be established to serve surrounding residential neighborhoods. The
zone is intended to promote a combination of retail and service facilities that, in character and
scale, meet the day-to-day needs of nearby residents. A photo of the property was displayed.

Mr. Whittaker reported that the applicant came before the Planning Commission on March 27,
2025, requesting higher density housing in the area. At that time, the Planning Commission
forwarded a negative recommendation to the City Council, and the applicant chose not to proceed
to the City Council at that time. The applicant is now presenting a new application.

Commissioner Shah asked about the types of uses that would be allowed on the property.
Ms. Jastremsky referenced the Code, which lists many potential uses that are permitted as part of
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
July 10, 2025
Page 4

the CN zone. Mr. Whittaker pointed out that this is a common zone in the area. Commissioner
Shah asked if there had been discussion about a potential Development Agreement. Mr. Whittaker
was not aware of any. It was noted that the properties to the west of the subject property are zoned
Neighborhood Commercial. The zoning in the area serves as a transition from commercial to
residential and offers the lowest impact commercial.

The applicant, Troy Dana, reported that he owns the subject property and resides on Cherry Creek
Lane in Draper. He was before the Commission in March; at which time he presented a residential
zone to help buffer the Commercial. It was not received well by the Commission; however, he
had subsequent conversations with members of the City Council. He referenced the Land Use
Map and stated that 12200 South will be filled in more with Neighborhood Commercial going
forward. He opined that Neighborhood Commercial will have the lowest impact on the neighbors.
Mr. Dana indicated that his earlier proposal could have included a park and townhomes but was
not supported by the neighbors and he has since put forward a new plan. The majority of the City
Council members he spoke to seemed to support Neighborhood Commercial in the area. Mr. Dana
indicated that he had worked with the neighbors and held a neighborhood meeting to discuss his
proposed plans. More neighbors were present tonight than attended his neighborhood meeting.
He had read letters of opposition that were submitted but noted that none of the neighbors reached
out to him personally despite his efforts to work with them. He recognized that people dislike
change but observed that Draper is not a small town anymore and stated that if the neighbors want
to live in a small town they can move.

Mr. Dana stated that the intent is to build office condo flex space that is similar to what exists in
the Town Center. He noted that the Commission will hear a lot of emotion from the public
speakers tonight but he has been respectful in his approach. If the Commissioners visit the
neighborhood, they will see that anything that is developed will likely be an improvement to what
exists now. He was aware of the height and setback restrictions and had spoken with staff about
what can be developed. What is proposed will be attractive and match what already exists. He
noted that there is existing commercial development adjacent to his property and along 12200
South.

Commissioner Ogden opened the public hearing.

Kimberly Henrie reported that she lives near the subject property. Some residents were at the
neighborhood meeting and were very clear about how they feel about what is proposed. She asked
the Commission to consider development from a broader perspective rather than on a case-by-case
basis. There are over 30 residences in the neighborhood, and regardless of whether they are rentals,
people have lived in them for a very long time. The neighbors value the rural nature of the area
and would like to preserve it. Developers are waiting for people to sell to request zoning changes,
which is unfair to the residents. She encouraged the Commission to pause and complete the study
that was initiated in March 2025 to look at the train station system. She asked that it be done
comprehensively. She commented that residents are not afraid of change but want it to make sense
for everyone and not just the developer.
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
July 10, 2025
Page 5

Dave Hansen gave his address as 12107 South 800 East and expressed opposition to the proposal.
He stated that the existing commercial areas are on arterial roads and not surface streets. What is
proposed will encroach into the neighborhood. While there may always be growth on 700 East
and 12300 South, they do not need to continually encroach into a neighborhood that is well
established. The residents have no intention of leaving and do not support the proposed change.
He did not support changing the zoning and potentially risk businesses coming into the
neighborhood that do not belong.

Jeremy Thomas gave his address as 12143 South 800 East. While he appreciated Mr. Dana
reaching out to the neighbors, adequate notice of the neighborhood meeting was not provided.
Mr. Thomas stated that nearly all of the residents on the street own their homes. While he
recognized that change happens, he saw no reason to change the zoning. He did not support
commercial or higher-density residential development in the area. He felt that the developer
should only be able to build what the current zoning allows. He wanted things to be left the way
they are.

Cindy Romero gave her address as 729 East 12200 South and has owned her home for 46 years.
She has seen change during that time and acknowledged that 12200 South is very busy. She
suggested that the City address the intersection of 12200 South and 700 East immediately, as it is
difficult to get out onto the road. It is dangerous, and some bushes extend into the street and block
the view of drivers. Ms. Romero has no intention of selling her home and has several family
members living with her. Mr. Dana’s request is not conducive to the neighborhood, which already
has enough traffic. She commented that now is not the time to add more intensity. Ms. Romero
stated that Mr. Dana deceived her by indicating that he would like to develop residential and then
changed the plan to townhomes. Mr. Dana had threatened that he would do a homeless camp. She
felt he has been trying to bully the neighbors.

Lois Duncan gave her address as 12138 South 800 East, where she has lived for six years. When
she bought the property, it was rundown and they have worked to improve it. It is a quiet street
that many use because it is not as busy as 700 East. She hoped it will remain a peaceful place that
people can enjoy. There is wildlife in the area. Ms. Duncan spoke with Mr. Dana in her home and
he initially told her he was going to build his home there with an office for his business and was
happy at that time to have him be their neighbor. She does not support the change to high density
or commercial. She did not see a need for more businesses in the area but supported more single-
family residential homes with neighborly people that will enhance the neighborhood.

Jerry Thomas lives directly east of the subject property and has been a resident since 1998.
Mr. Dana’s first proposal was for 24 housing units, which was not appropriate based on the size
and location of the property. Mr. Thomas expressed his opposition to commercial development
and while he realizes that development is inevitable, his desire is to keep the neighborhood
residential in nature. The proposed project will result in more traffic, noise, and light pollution
that will be detrimental to the neighborhood. Mr. Thomas stated that he believed the property was
recently rezoned for one-quarter-acre lots, which Mr. Dana knew when he purchased the property.
He reiterated that not everyone on the street rents their home. Under the current zoning, the
applicant could likely build eight homes on the property and make a profit. Mr. Thomas reiterated
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
July 10, 2025
Page 6

that the residents do not want commercial and that the City would have had a reason to zone the
property the way it is currently zoned. He asked that the Commission deny the request.

Jim Duncan gave his address as 12138 South 800 East and mentioned that he was unable to attend
the neighborhood meeting. He had also requested a copy of the plat from Mr. Dana, which was
never received. Mr. Duncan reported that he purchased his property five years ago, where there
was an existing home-based business. He hoped to operate his business there as well but his
request was denied even though his neighbors did not object. The family member of a neighboring
property owner objected to his request and Mr. Duncan eventually sold his business. At the time,
the City indicated that his request was denied to protect the neighborhood, maintain the integrity
of the neighborhood, and limit traffic. Since then, a developer informed Mr. Duncan that he could
build eight homes on his property and make a profit. Mr. Duncan saw no reason to change the
zoning. He doubted that Mr. Dana would want what he is proposing around his own home.

Scott Bugay gave his address as 12114 South 800 East and reported that he purchased his home
three years ago. The home was built in 1909. He identified his property on the map displayed and
stated that there is an outbuilding with a marker from 1866. The area was the original homestead
and was where all the chicken coops were. The home has been remodeled and is well-loved and
historic. The current zoning is RA2, which is intended to preserve the character of the City's semi-
rural areas. He questioned the need to modernize everything and suggested they instead allow six
houses to be developed on the property while preserving the rural nature of the community. Mr.
Bugay also commented on the heavy traffic on 700 East.

Jeremy Henrie, a neighborhood resident, commented that Fratto Farms would be great as a barn
with farm homes, but not as a commercial development. He was not opposed to Mr. Dana and
understands what he is trying to do. He recognized that the City is changing but this development
is in the middle of a neighborhood. All who have spoken disagree with what Mr. Dana is proposing
and would like the existing zoning to remain. He commented that high-density residential or
commercial is not conducive to the area. He mentioned that you can’t go back and that these kinds
of decisions are huge.

There were no further public comments. The public hearing was closed.

Mr. Dana reiterated that the City Council is looking at the entire triangle area between the two
train stations. The area that will potentially change on 12200 South may be more conducive to
Neighborhood Commercial over time. He acknowledged that a lot is happening in the area. He
stated that the existing zoning has not been changed for a very long time. He stated that it is untrue
that eight homes can be developed there and claimed that there is a one-half-acre minimum lot
size. Similar developments have not been popular. He stated that there is more value in the
property if it is developed properly.

Mr. Dana reported that he has lived in Draper for 25 years, and the mink and chicken farms were
torn down by the Jordan School District. He was sorry but felt that the triangular area is no longer
unique. He agreed that there is heavy traffic on 800 East and 12200 South, primarily due to the
proximity to 700 East. His goal was to develop something with minimal impact on the
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
July 10, 2025
Page 7

neighborhood while working with the City Council and the neighbors. It is not feasible for
neighbors to expect the area to remain as it is forever. He is proposing a decent-looking building
that people can buy to run various types of businesses. He pointed out that there are similar uses
directly across the street and next door. He reiterated that commercial already exists in the area.
With regard to a claim that he deceived a property owner, he stated that he does not need
permission to develop a drug rehab center. He remarked that he never proposed that, but it is
something that could be done. He instead would like to develop something that is of benefit to the
City and allows him to make a return on his investment. He stated that he cannot make a profit by
building just four homes. He reiterated that he bought the property knowing it was RA2 with the
intent to try and change the zoning.

Commissioner Nixon asked if the property has always been zoned RA2. Mr. Dana confirmed that
he purchased it knowing the zoning was RA2, but also knowing that the zoning would need to be
changed for a project to be successful. Mr. Whittaker confirmed that under the current zoning, the
property can accommodate four lots.

Commissioner Shirey asked about the plan that is under review of the area and what the City is
doing. Ms. Jastremsky stated that they are talking about the Station Area Plan. This area falls
within a one-half mile radius of the Kimballs TRAX station. The Station Area Plan specifically
looks at properties that are ripe for redevelopment. There is no proposal to include this property
as part of the draft plan.

Commissioner Nixon referenced the areas in red on the Land Use Map and why the area just west
of the subject proposed property, going north, intersects the block. Mr. Whittaker stated that it is
a transitional area from Commercial to Residential. Ms. Jastremsky stated that for the residential,
they are looking at the mid-block. This section looks primarily at development along 700 East.
Commissioner Nixon stated that the two homes directly west are very small and on less than one
acre. Ms. Jastremsky clarified that the minimum area for the zone pertains to the size of the zoning
district and not the specific property.

Mr. Whittaker pointed out that there are different types of commercial land uses in the general
vicinity of the subject property, and Mr. Dana’s request is for smaller-scale commercial land use.
Normally, Neighborhood Commercial areas serve as buffers between residential and higher-
density and commercial areas. Ms. Jastremsky reported that on the Land Use Map, the western
half of the block is shown as Neighborhood Commercial and the eastern half is shown as Medium-
Density Residential. The areas that have been developed as Commercial have been zoned
Commercial.

Commissioner Shah perceived Mr. Dana to be a developer who is working with the neighborhood
to preserve it. He understood that negotiations take time and suggested Mr. Dana be given more
time to come up with a different solution. Commissioner Shah was opposed to very high density
in the area and would prefer Neighborhood Commercial as a pass-through between residential and
other commercial.
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
July 10, 2025
Page 8

Commissioner Shirey expressed concern with an area that has been identified for Commercial.
This area seemed to be an attempt in the broader plan to preserve the rural feel. She was concerned
about utilizing a piecemeal approach. She had serious concerns with delving into that area with a
piecemeal approach.

Commissioner Nixon commented that of all the items that the Planning Commission reviews, Land
Use and Zoning Map Amendments are the most difficult. She reported that the Planning
Commission makes recommendations to the City Council, which makes the final determination.

Planning Manager, Todd Draper, clarified that the Planning Commission previously forwarded a
recommendation on another application from the applicant to City Council, but that application
was not heard by the Council and is on hold. Statements made about discussions with the City
Council were private discussions held outside of a public meeting. This is the second application.
Only the current application was being considered tonight.

Chair Ogden acknowledged that this is a difficult decision due to the current condition of the
property and because there are homes to the west of a commercial property. The result will be for
the homes to be bookended by commercial properties.

Commissioner Shah asked the applicant if he would like more time to develop a plan. Mr. Dana
stated that he discussed the issue with the City Council, who seem to agree that Neighborhood
Commercial is coming as a result of the TRAX station. Mr. Dana stated that the neighbors have
been very clear with respect to what they do and do not want. The City Council prefers to see a
controlled height and type of office building rather than other development.

Commissioner Nixon remarked that Mr. Dana knew what the zoning was when he purchased the
property.

Motion: Commissioner Shirey moved to forward a NEGATIVE recommendation to the City
Council for denial of the Land Use Map Amendment, as requested by Troy Dana,
Application 2025-0101-MA, based on the following:

Findings for Denial:

   1.      The proposed land use map amendment is not consistent with the goals, objectives,
           and policies of the City's General Plan.

   2.      The proposed land use map amendment is not harmonious with the overall
           character of existing development in the vicinity of the subject property.

   3.      The proposed land use map amendment will adversely affect adjacent property.

   4.      There are not adequate facilities and services intended to serve the subject
           property, including, but not limited to, roadways, parks and recreation facilities,
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
July 10, 2025
Page 9

             police and fire protection, schools, stormwater drainage systems, water supplies,
             and wastewater and refuse collection.

   5.        The proposed land use map amendment does not comply with DCMC Section 9-
             2- 020(F).

   6.        The legislative body may reject any amendment to the general plan land use map
             that the legislative body considers appropriate.

   7.        Concerns and purpose behind the negative recommendation is that we don’t
             believe what is being proposed is consistent with the goals and objectives of the
             general plan or harmonious with this area that appears based on the land use map
             to be a carve out to retain this more rural residential within the community of
             Draper. That’s not to say it won’t change in the future, but we are not prepared
             with the clean lines that we have, once we start going there the dominos will fall,
             and we aren’t prepared today to do that.

Second: Commissioner Nixon seconded the motion.

Vote on Motion: 3-to-2 in favor.

        Commissioner        Yes    No    Abstained     Not Participating    Absent
        Chair Adams                                                         X
        Fowler                                                              X
        Squire                                                              X
        Nixon               X
        Shirey              X
        Ogden                      X
        Fidler, Alternate   X
        Shah, Alternate            X
        Green, Alternate                                                    X


Motion: Commissioner Shirey moved to forward a NEGATIVE recommendation to the City
Council for denial of the Zoning Map Amendment, as requested by Troy Dana, Application
2025-0102-MA, based on the following:

Findings for Denial:

        1.      The proposed zoning map amendment is not consistent with the goals,
                objectives, and policies of the City's General Plan.

        2.      The proposed zoning map amendment is not compatible with the subject
                properties' existing Land Use Designation and is not harmonious with the
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
July 10, 2025
Page 10

              overall character of existing development in the vicinity of the subject
              property.

      3.      The proposed zoning map amendment will adversely affect adjacent property.

      4.      There are not adequate facilities and services intended to serve the subject
              property, including, but not limited to, roadways, parks and recreation
              facilities, police and fire protection, schools, stormwater drainage systems,
              water supplies, and wastewater and refuse collection.

      5.      Concerns and purpose behind the negative recommendation is that we don’t
              believe what is being proposed is consistent with the goals and objectives of the
              general plan or harmonious with this area that appears based on the land use
              map to be a carve out to retain this more rural residential within the
              community of Draper. That’s not to say it won’t change in the future, but we
              are not prepared with the clean lines that we have, once we start going there
              the dominos will fall, and we aren’t prepared today to do that.

Commissioner Shirey emphasized that the same reasoning for the negative recommendation
for the Land Use Map amendment was applicable to the negative recommendation for the
Zoning Map amendment.

Second: Commissioner Nixon seconded the motion.

Vote on Motion: 3-to-2 in favor.

       Commissioner        Yes   No    Abstained     Not Participating     Absent
       Chair Adams                                                         X
       Fowler                                                              X
       Squire                                                              X
       Nixon               X
       Shirey              X
       Ogden                     X
       Fidler, Alternate   X
       Shah, Alternate           X
       Green, Alternate                                                    X

2.    Other Business.

      A.      Discussion Item: 2025 Moderate-Income Housing Report (Work Session)
              presentation and work session regarding the Annual Moderate-Income Housing
              Plan (MIHP) and required reporting to the State. Staff Contact: Todd Taylor,
              todd.taylor@draperutah.gov, (801) 576-6510.
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
July 10, 2025
Page 11

City Planner, Todd Taylor, reported that the Moderate-Income Report is submitted to the State
annually and is due on August 1, 2025. The Moderate-Income Housing Plan is Chapter 4 of the
General Plan. An outline was provided to the Commission Members prior to the meeting. Mr.
Taylor clarified that he is presenting last years numbers as staff is still calculating the number for
this year’s report. Those calculations will be done in time for the report to be submitted. The City
is reporting on the number of entitled units that have not received a building permit as of May 1,
2025. Last year, there were 4,194 entitled units that had not received the building permit as of
May 1, 2024. One of the items to be reported on is the number of entitled units that have received
Will-Serve letters. Last year, 299 units of the 4,194 received Will-Serve letters, but had not
received the building permit. The City also reports on Accessory Dwelling Units (“ADU”). In
2024, the total number of ADUs that had been recorded was 35. Six received a building permit,
and 10 ADU permits were issued.

Strategy E is a new strategy this year after a General Plan Amendment was adopted last year to
change the strategies related to impact fees to this strategy, which is related to reducing regulations
for Internal (“I-ADU”) or Detached (“D-ADU”) ADUs. This strategy was adopted in 2024 and
followed up with a text amendment that was adopted in November of 2024. The text amendment
changed the Code to allow property owners to live in the main unit or the ADU to provide more
flexibility. It also reduced the minimum lot size for people requesting I-ADU deviations.

Strategy F involves the zoning or rezoning for higher density or moderate-income residential in
commercial or mixed-use zones near major transit, commercial centers, or employment centers.
This year, the City brought forward the Draper Town Center Station Area Plan that was adopted
by the City Council in March of 2025 and certified by the Wasatch Front Regional Council
(“WFRC”) in May. Staff provided the Station Area Plan to the City’s consultant who is leading
the Comprehensive Code Update. The consultant was asked to incorporate the standards in the
plan into either a new zoning district or an existing zoning district. The Comprehensive Code
Update will come back before the Planning Commission and City Council for adoption in the
future.

Mr. Taylor reported that Staff is also working on the other Station Area Plans, including Kimball's
Lane, Crescent View, and the Draper FrontRunner. That effort began in March, and stakeholder
interviews took place in April. Design charettes and an open house were held in June, as well as
an online survey. Next Tuesday will be a joint Planning Commission/City Council Workshop to
review the results of the online survey and the preferred concepts created by the City’s Consultant
for the Station Areas. Due to the need for adoption by the end of the year and WFRC’s meeting
schedule, staff is considering bringing them before the Planning Commission for a
recommendation at the end of August and to the City Council for adoption at the beginning of
September.

Strategy G involves amending land use regulations to allow for higher density and moderate-
income residential development in commercial or mixed-use zones near major transit corridors.
This strategy will be achieved through the Comprehensive Code Update, which is looking to
include new development standards for missing middle housing, creating new zones that may
provide the option for more density or mixed-use, and looking at development standards. Staff is
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
July 10, 2025
Page 12

also looking to include language on density bonuses for affordable units based on new State law.
The project is still underway, and Staff is currently involved in a second review of the draft
chapters received, which include the overlay districts, master planned communities, and the use
standards.

Strategy J implements zoning incentives for moderate-income units in new developments. Staff
is looking at achieving this strategy also as part of the comprehensive Code Update. Mr. Taylor
mentioned the City has been working on other methods to increase moderate-income units through
workforce housing partnerships. This last year, the City entered into an agreement with Ivory
Development to create seven workforce housing units in the Big Willow development for City and
school district employees. To date, two of the units have been occupied. The pricing range of the
housing units was $390,000 to $475,000. Mr. Taylor reported that the Development Agreement
that was approved for Kimball Junction included a minimum of 30 units of workforce housing
from Edge Homes.

Strategy W involves the development of a Station Area Plan and is a repeat of Strategy F.

Strategy O involves partnering with an entity to construct moderate-income housing. This was
completed in 2023, at which time the City Council adopted a resolution and the City entered into
an agreement with Salt Lake County. The agreement runs through 2027.

The final part of the report is the State seeking feedback and recommendations in an effort to
understand what types of support would be helpful to the community. Last year, the City asked
for housing supply data, planning technical assistance, case studies for strategies, and for the State
to provide examples of where and how these strategies are working in Utah and to allow each
jurisdiction more flexibility to find solutions that work for their unique circumstances.

Additional Business:

Ms. Jastremsky reported that the next regular meeting is scheduled for July 31, 2025. A Joint
Session with the City Council is scheduled for Tuesday, July 15, 2025, at 5:30 p.m. Dinner will
be served.

3.     Adjournment.

Motion: Commissioner Shirey moved to ADJOURN.

The meeting adjourned at 7:55 PM.
