MINUTES OF THE DRAPER CITY COUNCIL MEETING HELD ON TUESDAY, DECEMBER
2, 2025, IN THE DRAPER CITY COUNCIL CHAMBERS, 1020 EAST PIONEER ROAD,
DRAPER, UTAH

PRESENT:     Mayor Troy K. Walker, and Councilmembers Bryn Heather Johnson,
             Tasha Lowery, Fred Lowry, and Marsha Vawdrey
EXCUSED: Councilmember Mike Green
STAFF:       Mike Barker, City Manager; Kellie Challburg, Assistant City Manager;
             Scott Cooley, City Engineer and Public Works Director; Spencer
             DuShane, Assistant City Attorney; Rich Ferguson, Chief of Police; Traci
             Gundersen, City Attorney; Jennifer Jastremsky, Community
             Development Director; Rhett Ogden, Parks and Recreation Director;
             Derek     Orth,    Human Resource Director;            Linda    Peterson,
             Communications Director; Nicole Smedley, City Recorder; Clint Smith,
             Fire Chief; Jake Sorensen, Network Manager; and John Vuyk, Finance
             Director
______________________________________________________________________________________

Study Session

      Closed Session
      None

      Discussion: Special Event Arena Committee
      Assistant City Manager Kellie Challburg requested Council direction regarding
      the Special Event Arena Committee. She reported that three current members
      wished to continue serving, while three members’ terms had expired and
      those individuals might also be interested in continuing. She stated that staff
      had experienced difficulties with recruitment and reported that the
      Committee had assisted with the rodeo, horse pull, monster truck event, and
      holiday market.

      Ms. Challburg stated that staff had discussed the possibility of bringing
      additional events to the arena to provide the Committee with more activity.
      The Council discussed the importance of ensuring the Committee remained
      active and felt needed. Councilmember Vawdrey stated that it would not be
      advisable if the events did not result in a profit. Councilmember T. Lowery
      suggested combining the Special Event Arena Committee with the Community
      Engagement Committee. Ms. Challburg reported that the Community
                                                                            1|Page
        Draper City Council DRAFT Meeting Minutes – December 2, 2025
Engagement Committee was limited to a maximum of eleven members under
City Code and currently had ten active members.

Councilmembers F. Lowry and T. Lowery stated support for combining the two
committees. Councilmember Johnson stated that if a new committee were
created, current members of both committees could be asked to reapply.
Councilmember T. Lowery added that priority could be given to those currently
serving. Councilmember F. Lowry stated that some current Community
Engagement Committee members might welcome a new direction.

A majority of the Council indicated support for combining the Special Event
Arena Committee and the Community Engagement Committee as one eleven-
member committee.

Report: Major Road CIP
Public Works Director Scott Cooley reported completed road capital
improvement projects, including: 2025 pavement maintenance; storm drain
improvements on 700 East; 13800 South widening; Suncrest guardrail
concrete barrier; and the sidewalk gap project.

The Council and staff discussed possible improvements on 700 West. Mayor
Walker explained that widening and improvements had been planned in the
past, but were put on hold when residents reached out against the
improvements. Mr. Cooley reported a major project that had been planned for
2026 would need to be postponed because of UDOT, and suggested
improvements on 700 East could be added to the queue for 2026. Mayor
Walker suggested reaching out to current residents to see if they now wanted
the road widened. Councilmember T. Lowery said she did not think the road
had enough traffic to merit widening, but said she believed residents wanted
sidewalk for safety.

Responding to a question from Councilmember T. Lowery, Mr. Cooley said
despite reports and perception of residents, speed studies had not found a
speeding problem on 700 West. Councilmember T. Lowery said she believed a
lot of concerns could be alleviated with the addition of sidewalk and a safe
crossing to the park. Mr. Cooley explained sidewalk could be added to one side
of the street, but addition of sidewalk on the other side would be challenging
because of irrigation issues. He said he would support a decision to not widen
700 West.

                                                                     2|Page
      A majority of the Council indicated support for sidewalk improvements on 700
      West (estimated $450,000 cost).

      Mr. Cooley explained upcoming projects: a new pump at Pump Station 3; Zone
      4 sidewalk repairs; 1700 East storm drain improvement; Lone Peak Parkway
      widening (postponed by UDOT); 14600 South/Minuteman intersection
      improvements, Pioneer Road resurfacing; and 13400 South connection.
      Members of the Council expressed a desire to tour a pump station.

      Report: Mowing Contract Update
      Parks and Recreation Director Rhett Ogden thanked the Council for its support
      in approving a mowing contractor in the previous budget. He reported that
      the mowing contract approved by the Council freed up at least three full-time
      staff positions and allowed for the addition of a City Arborist position. He
      stated that the change was successful and improved staff morale.

      Mr. Ogden also reported a change in the holiday lighting contractor for 2025.
      He stated that holiday lights would now be leased, resulting in cost savings
      and a reduction in staff time.

      Council/Manager Reports
      None

Business Session

1.    Call to Order by Mayor Troy K. Walker

2.    Pledge of Allegiance by Mayor Walker

3.    Oaths of Office
      Chief of Police Rich Ferguson recognized Ben Ricks and Zach Campbell for
      promotion to the rank of Master Officer. City Recorder Nicole Smedley
      administered the Oath of Office.

4.    Recognition
      Brigham City Police Chief Chad Reyes introduced Chief Jeff Simmons with
      Logan City and Brigham City Mayor DJ Bott. He expressed gratitude for
      assistance provided by Draper City in dealing with a tragedy that occurred in

                                                                          3|Page
      Box Elder County. Chief Reyes and Chief Simmons presented Captain Pat
      Evans with a Medal of Merit for exceptional leadership and support
      demonstrated by him and the Draper City Police Department during planning
      and execution of funeral services for Sergeant Lee Sorensen and Officer Eric
      Estrada. Mayor Bott expressed gratitude for the support from the Draper
      Police Department and City Council.

      Mayor Walker commended and expressed gratitude for Captain Evans. The
      Council took the opportunity for a photograph.

5.    Public Comments
      None

6.    Consent Items
6.a   Approve the November 18, 2025 City Council Meeting Minutes
6.b   Approve Resolution #25-68 appointing Laura Fidler as an alternate member of
      the Draper City Planning Commission
6.c   Approve Resolution #25-69 supporting America250 Utah and recognizing and
      approving the Draper Utah 250 Community Committee
6.d   Approve Resolution #25-70 disposing of personal property held by the Police
      Department as lost or mislaid property in accordance with Utah Code Section
      77-11d-101
6.e   Approve Resolution #25-71 approving updated technical specifications and
      standard drawings for public infrastructure
6.f   Approve Resolution #25-73 amending previously issued deeds to land that
      had not yet been recorded for the Warhorse Ranch Development Agreement

      Councilmember Vawdrey moved to approve              the   Consent   Agenda.
      Councilmember Johnson seconded the motion.

      A roll call vote was taken. The motion passed unanimously.
                                            Yes      No Absent
      Councilmember Green                               Excused
      Councilmember Johnson                X
      Councilmember T. Lowery              X
      Councilmember F. Lowry               X
      Councilmember Vawdrey                X




                                                                          4|Page
7.    Items for Council Consideration
7.a   Public Hearing: Ordinance #1692 amending the text of the Draper City General
      Plan to amend the Draper Frontrunner, Kimballs Lane, and Crescent View
      Station Area Plans, known as the amendment to the Draper Frontrunner,
      Kimballs Lane, and Crescent View Station Area Plans General Plan Amendment

      Planner Todd Taylor reported that the FrontRunner (Vista), Kimballs Lane, and
      Crescent View Station Area Plans adopted by the Council on September 2,
      2025, were certified by the Wasatch Front Regional Council on October 23,
      2025. He stated that the next step in the process was certification by the Utah
      Transit Authority.

      Mr. Taylor reported that following Council approval, the Utah Transit Authority
      requested revisions to figures in the Vista Station Area Plan to include a
      building at a specific location. He presented the proposed revisions for Council
      consideration.

      Mayor Walker opened the public hearing, and closed the public hearing seeing
      no one come forward.

      Councilmember F. Lowry moved to adopt Ordinance #1692. Councilmember
      Johnson seconded the motion.

      A roll call vote was taken. The motion passed unanimously.
                                            Yes      No Absent
      Councilmember Green                                  Excused
      Councilmember Johnson                  X
      Councilmember T. Lowery                X
      Councilmember F. Lowry                 X
      Councilmember Vawdrey                  X

7.b   Public Hearing: Ordinance #1693 amending the text of the Land Use and
      Development Code (Title 9) and the Land Development Code (Title 17) of the
      Draper City Municipal Code relating to boundary adjustments, known as the
      City Initiated Boundary Adjustment Text Amendment

      Mr. Taylor presented proposed text amendments to Titles 9 and 17 of City
      Code to comply with 2025 Senate Bill 104 regarding boundary adjustments.
      He stated that additional amendments were proposed for clarification.

                                                                            5|Page
      Mayor Walker opened the public hearing, and closed the public hearing seeing
      no one come forward.

      Councilmember Vawdrey moved to adopt Ordinance #1693. Councilmember
      Johnson seconded the motion.

      A roll call vote was taken. The motion passed unanimously.
                                            Yes      No Absent
      Councilmember Green                                 Excused
      Councilmember Johnson                  X
      Councilmember T. Lowery                X
      Councilmember F. Lowry                 X
      Councilmember Vawdrey                  X

7.c   Public Hearing: Ordinance #1694 amending the Draper City General Plan to
      add the Water Use and Preservation Element as Chapter 7, known as the
      Water Use and Preservation Element General Plan Amendment

      Mr. Taylor explained that 2022 Senate Bill 110 required adoption of a Water
      Use and Preservation Element by December 31, 2025. He stated that, as part
      of the drafting process, a stakeholder group was formed consisting of
      Planning, Engineering, Public Works, WaterPro, and the Utah Division of
      Wildlife Resources. He reported that work sessions were held with the
      Planning Commission and the City Council.

      Mr. Taylor presented the proposed Water Use and Preservation Element as
      Chapter 7 of the General Plan and stated that the existing Chapter 7 would be
      renumbered as Chapter 8. He reported that the proposed Chapter 7 included
      six goals and 17 strategies.

      Goals:
        1. Strengthen the City’s water conservation efforts through dedicated
             leadership, support, and collaboration.
        2. Develop additional citywide policies and ordinances that enhance water
             conservation and efficiency through irrigation restrictions for existing
             developments.




                                                                           6|Page
         3. Reduce water demand through water-conserving development
            patterns that increase development density through mechanisms such
            as modified lot size and configuration.
         4. Increase public awareness of water conservation through educational
            programming. Consider applying for the Jordan Valley Water
            Conservancy District (JVWCD) Member Agency Grant to receive funding.
         5. Increase public awareness of water conservation through the City’s
            website, social media, and other digital tools.
         6. Lead by example and increase water efficiency throughout Draper City’s
            public landscapes.

      Mr. Taylor answered questions about further development of the goals for
      implementation. Councilmember Johnson asked if non-residential, non-
      commercial water use (e.g., churches, schools) would be addressed.
      Community Development Director Jen Jastremsky responded the City was
      limited in what churches could be required to do, and said she did not think
      the City could require churches to fully comply with Code.

      Mayor Walker opened the public hearing, and closed the public hearing seeing
      no one come forward.

      Councilmember Johnson moved to adopt Ordinance #1694. Councilmember
      Vawdrey seconded the motion.

      A roll call vote was taken. The motion passed unanimously.
                                            Yes      No Absent
      Councilmember Green                               Excused
      Councilmember Johnson                X
      Councilmember T. Lowery              X
      Councilmember F. Lowry               X
      Councilmember Vawdrey                X

7.d   Public Hearing #25-72 adopting a Water Conservation Plan update for Draper
      City

      Engineering Manager Brien Maxfield presented the proposed 2025 Water
      Conservation Plan, required by the State to be updated every five years.




                                                                         7|Page
      Mayor Walker opened the public hearing, and closed the public hearing seeing
      no one come forward.

      Councilmember Johnson moved to approve                 Resolution    #25-72.
      Councilmember T. Lowery seconded the motion.

      A roll call vote was taken. The motion passed unanimously.
                                            Yes      No Absent
      Councilmember Green                                Excused
      Councilmember Johnson                 X
      Councilmember T. Lowery               X
      Councilmember F. Lowry                X
      Councilmember Vawdrey                 X

7.e   Public Hearing: Ordinances #1686 and Ordinance #1687 amending the official
      Zoning Map of Draper City for approximately 1.38 acres of property located at
      11730 S. 700 West, known as the Huber Land Use Map and Zoning Map
      Amendments

      Planner Maryann Pickering presented the subject property on a map. She
      stated that the current General Plan Land Use Map designation for the
      property was Residential Low-Medium Density and that the current zoning
      was RA1 (one-acre minimum). She reported that the applicant requested a
      Land Use Map amendment to Residential Medium Density and a zone change
      to R3 (one-third acre minimum) for approximately one-third of the property.
      She explained that the area proposed for the change would eventually be
      added to the subdivision to the west, with the remaining portion of the lot
      continuing to comply with the RA1 zoning requirements.

      Tom Spencer, the applicant, stated that one approximately 19,000-square-foot
      lot would eventually be added to the Fox Landing Subdivision, with access
      from Osborne Vista Way.

      Mayor Walker opened the public hearing, and closed the public hearing seeing
      no one come forward.

      Councilmember F. Lowry moved to adopt Ordinance #1686 and Ordinance
      #1687. Councilmember T. Lowery seconded the motion.


                                                                          8|Page
      A roll call vote was taken. The motion passed unanimously.
                                            Yes      No Absent
      Councilmember Green                               Excused
      Councilmember Johnson                 X
      Councilmember T. Lowery               X
      Councilmember F. Lowry                X
      Councilmember Vawdrey                 X

7.f   Public Hearing: Ordinances #1688 and #1689 amending the Official Land Use
      Map and an Ordinance amending the official Zoning Map of Draper City for
      approximately 17.88 acres of property 13782 S. 300 E, known as the Bangerter
      Crossroads Land Use Map and Zoning Map Amendments

      This item was continued to a date uncertain.

7.g   Public Hearing: Ordinances #1690 and #1691 amending the Official Land Use
      Map and amending the official Zoning Map of Draper City for approximately
      1.44 acres of property located at approximately 231 E. 13800 S, known as the
      Openshaw Draper 138 Land Use Map and Zoning Map Amendments

      This item was continued to a date uncertain.

8.    Adjournment
      Councilmember T. Lowery moved to adjourn the meeting. Councilmember
      Johnson seconded the motion, which passed by unanimous voice vote.

      The meeting adjourned at 7:45 pm.




                                                                         9|Page
