MINUTES OF THE DRAPER CITY COUNCIL MEETING HELD ON TUESDAY, JULY 15, 2025,
IN THE DRAPER CITY COUNCIL CHAMBERS, 1020 EAST PIONEER ROAD, DRAPER,
UTAH

PRESENT:     Mayor Troy K. Walker, and Councilmembers Mike Green, Bryn Heather
             Johnson, Fred Lowry, and Marsha Vawdrey

             Planning Commission: Andrew Adams, Mary Squire, Susan Nixon,
             Shivam Shah, Laura Fidler

EXCUSED:     Councilmember T. Lowery

STAFF:       Mike Barker, City Manager; Kellie Challburg, Assistant City Manager;
             Scott Cooley, City Engineer and Public Works Director; Spencer
             DuShane, Assistant City Attorney; Rich Ferguson, Chief of Police; Traci
             Gundersen, City Attorney; Jennifer Jastremsky, Community
             Development Director; Rhett Ogden, Parks and Recreation Director;
             Pam Stagg, Interim Human Resources Director; Linda Peterson,
             Communications Director; Nicole Smedley, City Recorder; Steve
             Pearson, Deputy Fire Chief; Jared Zacharias, Assistant Finance Director;
             Todd Taylor, Planner; Travis DeJong, Business License Official; and Jake
             Sorensen, Network Manager
______________________________________________________________________________________

Study Session

      Discussion: Station Area Plan Survey Results and Draft Plan Review
      Joint Session with Planning Commission
      Chris Geddes with Design Workshop reported on the Station Area Plan (SAP)
      engagement activities conducted from March through June. He stated these
      activities included interviews, small group meetings, a design charrette, a story
      map, online surveys with 791 responses, and an open house. He reminded the
      Council that the plans must be adopted by fall in order for the State to certify
      the SAPs by the end of the year.
          • Vista Station – Mr. Geddes reported that the Public-Space Network
              option was preferred by a small margin over the East-West Spine option
              for the Vista Frontrunner Station. He stated that creating a sense of

                                                                             1|Page
         Draper City Council DRAFT Meeting Minutes – July 15, 2025
       place was identified as the top priority for future planning, while
       increasing office space, employment opportunities, and housing were
       ranked as lower priorities. Dan Cawley with Fehr & Peers, a
       transportation consulting firm, stated that survey results supported the
       following recommendations for Vista Station: coordinating with The
       Point development to plan a future multi-use path and improve
       connectivity within Draper; identifying opportunities for east-west
       connections; and evaluating the potential for a new multi-use trail on
       the east side of the railroad tracks.
   •   Kimballs Lane Station – Mr. Geddes said survey results indicated a
       concept with approximately 25-28 dwelling units per acre with
       townhomes, cottages, and some condo product was preferred over a
       denser concept for the Kimballs Lane Station area. Mr. Cawley reported
       the following transportation recommendations: improving Porter
       Rockwell Trail access and wayfinding (44%); considering safe routes to
       the school and a new multi-use path (37%); and filling sidewalk and bike
       lane gaps on Kimballs Lane and 700 East (35%).
   •   Crescent View Station – Mr. Geddes reported survey results indicated
       redevelopment on the east side of the Crescent View Station area
       (Harmon’s property) was viewed favorably. Survey results also indicated
       concerns about building height and residential density, particularly five-
       story structures and large apartment complexes. Traffic and
       infrastructure capacity were common concerns, especially given
       existing congestion on 11400 South and 700 East. A desire for more
       single-family housing over additional multifamily units was indicated,
       with concerns about the area’s ability to absorb further growth.

In response to comments from the Council regarding traffic congestion near
the Kimballs Lane area, Mr. Cawley stated that updated traffic data from UDOT
for the Kimballs Lane Station area did not, in theory, indicate major gridlock.
He stated he would further evaluate the area in the coming weeks to better
understand the conditions. Councilmember Johnson stated it was important
to conduct traffic studies while school is in session.

Presentation: Jordan Valley Water Rates
John Richardson presented a report to the Draper City Council regarding a
proposed property tax increase by the Jordan Valley Water Conservancy
District for fiscal year 2025–2026. He stated that a public hearing is




                                                                       2|Page
scheduled for August 11, 2025, at 6:00 p.m., during which members of the
public may ask questions or provide comments.

Alan Packard, General Manager and CEO, stated that the proposed increase
is in response to a growing service area and rising water demand, which
require additional water supplies and expanded infrastructure. These
improvements are projected to cost hundreds of millions of dollars over the
next five years. He noted that the proposed property tax revenue increase is
11.1%. Mr. Packard stated the proposed property tax increase would result in
an annual increase of $11.78 for an average home ($630,000) in Draper.

Report: Major Road Capital Improvement Projects
Scott Cooley reviewed several ongoing and upcoming projects, including
improvements at 14600 South and Minuteman Drive; installation of an
advanced warning signal for westbound traffic on Highland Drive/14600
South; the Suncrest Detention Basin; Lone Peak Parkway widening; 13800
South Phase 3 widening; storm drainage improvements at 700 East and Willow
Springs and on 700 West; a storm drain improvement on 1700 East;
installation of a concrete barrier for the Suncrest guardrail; and construction
of a connecting sidewalk on Highland Drive between Traverse Ridge Road and
65 East. He also reviewed pavement maintenance projects, including Draper
Parkway reconstruction, South Mountain Phase 9, and various locations
citywide.

Report: Parks Capital Improvement Projects
Rhett Ogden, Parks and Recreation Director, reviewed the following completed
projects: Rattle n’ Hum; Deer Ridge Area Improvement Plans; Dobbins Way
Trail; and Maple Hollow South Trail Crossings. He also reviewed the following
current projects: Bubbling Brook Park sports court; Jenson Farm Park
Development Phase 3; Lehi City trails located within Draper City open space;
Carpe Diem Bike Trail upper reconstruction and redesignation; Achtung Baby
Bake Trail reconstruction; Porter Rockwell Trail – 1300 East UTA bridge
crossing; Porter Rockwell Trail – North Cranberry Hills access; Trails Division
facility improvements; and the Sunrise Station Park expansion.

Mr. Ogden stated that a proposed project is the Bonneville Shoreline Trail
Spring Hollow Bridge replacement, which would require a grant match. In
response to a question from Councilmember F. Lowry regarding revegetation
of the slide area, Mr. Ogden stated that the vegetation has taken well. He



                                                                     3|Page
      explained that hydroseed was applied at four times the normal rate. He added
      that although additional trees and brush oak are needed, the seed has
      established successfully.

      Council/Manager Reports
      None

Business Session

1.    Call to Order by Mayor Troy K. Walker

2.    Pledge of Allegiance led by Assistant City Attorney Spencer DuShane

3.    Public Comments
      Steve Crook, Draper resident, requested assistance from the City to establish
      an easement on a piece of land next to his home located at approximately 900
      East 12200 South. Mr. Crook said the issue was time sensitive, and asked for
      City help.

      Stacy Williams, Draper resident, said she came in two years ago with an issue
      with parking on her street. She said signs were taken on the wrong side of the
      street, and the neighbors now had a huge parking problem with residents of
      neighboring apartments using street parking, and homeowners not having
      space to park. Ms. Williams proposed a permit-only parking arrangement for
      residents to weed out apartment complex parking. She said residents often
      had a difficult time being able to get out of their driveways because of parking
      from the apartments.

      Jeremy Wilson, Draper resident, said he was Ms. Williams’ neighbor and he
      echoed her comments and concerns.

4.    Presentation
      4.a   2025 Moderate Income Housing Report
            Todd Taylor, Planner, presented the 2025 Moderate Income Housing
            Report prior to submission to the State. Responding to a question from
            the Council, staff said they did not know how many unrecorded
            Accessory Dwelling Units (ADUs) were operating in the City stating that
            ten ADU permits were issued since August 1, 2024, bringing the total
            number of recorded ADUs in Draper to 35.


                                                                            4|Page
5.   Consent Items
     5.a  July 1, 2025 City Council Meeting Minutes
     5.b  Resolution #25-038 reappointing Nancy Nichols and Christa Hutchison
          to the Draper City Historic Preservation Commission

           Councilmember Vawdrey moved to approve the Consent Agenda.
           Councilmember Johnson seconded the motion.

           A roll call vote was taken. The motion passed unanimously.
                                                Yes No      Absent
           Councilmember Green                   X
           Councilmember Johnson                 X
           Councilmember T. Lowery                            X
           Councilmember F. Lowry                X
           Councilmember Vawdrey                 X

6.   Items for Council Consideration
     6.a   Public Hearing: Providing Local Consent for a Hospitality Amenity
           License for Draper Hotel Holdings LLC dba Homewood Suites
           Business License Official Travis DeJong presented a request for local
           consent for a Hospitality Amenity License for Homewood Suites. He
           stated that a Hospitality Amenity License would allow the applicant to
           store, sell, and serve all kinds of alcoholic beverages on the premises
           for hospitality social events. Mr. DeJong said the application met all
           distance requirements.

           Mayor Walker opened a public hearing.

           Tanner Lenart, attorney representing the applicant, introduced herself
           and stated she was available to answer any questions.

           Mayor Walker closed the public hearing.

           Councilmember F. Lowry moved to approve               Local   Consent.
           Councilmember Green seconded the motion.

           A roll call vote was taken. The motion passed unanimously.
                                                Yes No      Absent


                                                                         5|Page
           Councilmember Green                  X
           Councilmember Johnson                X
           Councilmember T. Lowery                            X
           Councilmember F. Lowry               X
           Councilmember Vawdrey                X

7.   Recess to a Draper City Community Redevelopment Agency Meeting
     At 7:26 pm, Councilmember Green moved to adjourn to a Draper City
     Community Redevelopment Agency Meeting, with intention to return to
     regular meeting. Councilmember Vawdrey seconded the motion.

     A roll call vote was taken. The motion passed unanimously.
                                         Yes No      Absent
     Councilmember Green                  X
     Councilmember Johnson                X
     Councilmember T. Lowery                           X
     Councilmember F. Lowry               X
     Councilmember Vawdrey                X

     The City Council meeting reconvened at 7:54 p.m.

8.   Adjournment
     Councilmember Green moved to adjourn the meeting. Councilmember
     Johnson seconded the motion, which passed by unanimous vote (4-0).

     The meeting adjourned at 7:55 pm.




                                                                  6|Page
