MINUTES OF THE DRAPER CITY PLANNING COMMISSION MEETING HELD ON
THURSDAY, OCTOBER 23, 2025, IN THE DRAPER CITY COUNCIL CHAMBERS

PARTICIPATING: Lisa Fowler, Vice-Chair
               Commission Member Susan Nixon
               Commission Member Mary Squire
               Alternate Commission Member Laura Fidler
               Alternate Commission Member Christine Green

NOT SITTING:         Alternate Commission Member Shivam Shah

EXCUSED:             Andrew Adams, Chair
                     Commission Member Kendra Shirey
                     Commission Member Gary Ogden
                     Jennifer Jastremsky, Community Development Director

STAFF:               Todd Draper, Planning Manager
                     Nick Whittaker, City Planner
                     Lori Stout, Executive Assistant
                     Brien Maxfield, City Engineer
                     Traci Gundersen, City Attorney

6:31 PM Business Meeting

In the absence of Chair Andrew Adams, Vice-Chair Lisa Fowler called the Planning Commission
Meeting to order at 6:31 PM. Since Vice-Chair Fowler is a voting member, she will vote on the
agenda items. She thanked Commissioners, City Staff, applicants, and members of the public for
attending the meeting. It was noted that the last two agenda items have been continued.

1.     Items for Commission Consideration.

       A.     Action Item: Approve Planning Commission Meeting Minutes for September
              25, 2025.
              (Administrative Action)
              Approval of Planning Commission Meeting Minutes for September 25, 2025.

Motion: Commissioner Nixon moved to APPROVE the September 25, 2025, Planning
Commission Meeting Minutes, as presented.

Second: Commissioner Squire seconded the motion.

Vote on Motion: 5-to-0 in favor.
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
October 23, 2025
Page 2


        Commissioner        Yes   No     Abstained     Not Participating     Absent
        Chair Adams                                                          X
        Fowler              X
        Squire              X
        Nixon               X
        Shirey                                                               X
        Ogden                                                                X
        Fidler, Alternate   X
        Shah, Alternate                                X
        Green, Alternate    X

       B.      Public Hearing: Pond Lane Plat Amendment Request.
               (Administrative Action)
               On the request of Garrett Daw, representing Trent and Candice Eyre, for a Plat
               Amendment on 0.54 acres of property located at 291 East Pond Lane in the RA2
               (Residential Agricultural) Zone, application 2025-0082-SUB. Staff contact is Todd
               Draper at 801-576-6335 or todd.draper@draperutah.gov.

Planning Manager, Todd Draper, presented the Staff Report and stated that this is a Plat
Amendment request for property located at 291 East Pond Lane in the RA2 (Residential
Agricultural) Zone. It is approximately 0.54 acres, with a land use of Residential Medium Density.
Mr. Draper shared the Vicinity Map, Aerial Map, and Land Use Map with the Commission. The
recorded subdivision plat was reviewed. With this subdivision, there is a settlement agreement
and setbacks were recorded on the plat. The Settlement Agreement was recently amended, and has
been approved and signed.

The applicant is requesting that a Plat Amendment be approved to allow for a modification to the
building setback from the western property line. This amendment would shift from a 20-foot
minimum to a 12-foot minimum. The proposed subdivision plat was reviewed. Images of the
existing site were shared. Mr. Draper explained that the amendment would allow for a side
addition to the home.

The applicant, Trent Eyre, introduced himself and reiterated that the request is for a Plat
Amendment. Switching the setback from 20 feet to 12 feet is still compliant with City Code. He
noted that this is a reasonably simple request. There were no Commissioner questions.

Vice-Chair Fowler opened the public hearing.

Mark Johnson identified himself as the owner of Lot 1. The setback is not a problem, and he
expressed his support for the Plat Amendment requested for Lot 2 of the Pond Lane Subdivision.

There were no further comments. The public hearing was closed.
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
October 23, 2025
Page 3

Commissioner Nixon noted that the Settlement Agreement has already been approved. She
thought the Plat Amendment made sense and noted that this is a straightforward application.

Motion: Commissioner Nixon moved to APPROVE the Plat Amendment, as requested by
Garrett Daw, representing Trent and Candice Eyre for Pond Lane Plat Amendment,
application 2025-0082-SUB, based on the following findings for approval and subject to the
requirements listed in the Staff Report dated October 9, 2025:

Findings for Approval:

       1.      There is Good Cause for the vacation or amendment, and no public street or
               municipal utility easement has been vacated or amended.

Second: Commissioner Fidler seconded the motion.

Vote on Motion: 5-to-0 in favor.

        Commissioner        Yes    No     Abstained      Not Participating      Absent
        Chair Adams                                                             X
        Fowler              X
        Squire              X
        Nixon               X
        Shirey                                                                  X
        Ogden                                                                   X
        Fidler, Alternate   X
        Shah, Alternate                                  X
        Green, Alternate    X

       C.      Public Hearing: Specialized Manufacturing Site Plan, Conditional Use
               Permit, and Deviation Requests.
               (Administrative Actions)
               On the request of Robert Simons, Site Plan, Conditional Use Permit, and Deviation
               Requests for construction of a new commercial building for limited manufacturing
               and limited wholesale and warehousing uses on approximately 4.2 acres located at
               approximately 687 West 12300 South. Known as applications 2025-0123-SP,
               2025-0079-USE, and 2025-0219-VAR. Staff Contact: Todd A. Draper, (801) 576-
               6335, todd.draper@draperutah.gov.

Mr. Draper presented the Staff Report and stated that the request is for approval of a Site Plan,
Conditional Use Permit (“CUP”), and Parking Deviation for approximately 4.2 acres of property.
The subject property is at approximately 687 West 12300 South, and the property is currently
zoned CG (General Commercial). The Vicinity Map, Aerial Map, and Land Use Map were shared
with the Commission. Mr. Draper reviewed the Site Plan and explained that the building will be
centrally located. There will be a shared entrance with the property to the east. There is another
access point on the west side. In the Staff Report, one condition that is included is that there must
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
October 23, 2025
Page 4

be final approval from the Utah Department of Transportation (“UDOT”) for the access. Mr.
Draper reported that the proposed parking spaces are evenly distributed around the building.
Freight will be directed to use the shared access and will be immediately routed to the back. A
few smaller doors are available for box trucks. He explained that the larger trucks will be able to
pull into the back area to use the docks.

The Landscape Plan was shared. Mr. Draper reported that the use of grass is slightly too high, so
another Condition of Approval is proposed in the staff report to make the necessary modifications.
No changes will need to be made to the actual locations where the landscaping will be installed.
He reviewed the elevations and explained that the materials and colors for the facades comply.
The façade materials will primarily be architectural precast concrete panels, colored with
admixture and scored and form-lined per the proposed plan. The building is 35 feet tall. There
will be additional mechanical screening needed on the sides of the building. Other elevations were
also shared.

Information about the colors and materials was presented. Mr. Draper mentioned the metal
composite ACM panels and some of the different colors that will be used. An image of the
dumpster construction was shared. Mr. Draper next reviewed the floor plans and pointed out
where the specialized manufacturing will initially be located inside the building. The remaining
area will be leased to other potential tenants. The idea is that over time, it will be possible for
Specialize Manufacturing to expand within the building. There will be some second-floor
mezzanine space, which has also been included in the parking calculations. Information about the
trash enclosure and fencing was provided. Mr. Draper pointed out the fence location on the
landscape plan. He reported that a six-foot fence will be required as part of the land use buffer on
the western site. On the southern side, where the parking is a little closer, there is an eight-foot
height requirement for the fencing.

Mr. Draper discussed the CUP and explained that two conditional uses are proposed: Limited
Manufacturing and Limited Wholesale and Warehousing. Potential impacts are limited as the uses
are contained within the building. Information about the Parking Deviation request was shared.
Mr. Draper reported that a Parking Study was provided and that there is a request to increase the
number of parking stalls from 94 to 135. He next shared a site photo for reference and pointed out
the overhead power line. Work is being done with Rocky Mountain Power to bring the power
needed to the building and to remove the overhead line. The issue is that some of the proposed
street trees are not on the list of allowed trees under a power line. As a result, a Condition of
Approval is included in the staff report to allow the trees to be used if the power line is removed.
However, if the power line cannot be removed, the trees will need to be replaced with those on the
list approved for use under power lines.

Commissioner Green asked about the excess grass or turf on the landscaping plan. Mr. Draper
clarified that there is too much turf grass proposed. The amount proposed is a bit too high, so a
reduction is needed. The overall coverage rate with the plants was also slightly short, so a few
more plants also need to be added. With a decrease in the turf and increase in the number of
plantings, it should be possible to make the necessary changes.
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
October 23, 2025
Page 5

The applicant, Bob Simons, introduced himself and shared the history of the business, which was
founded 30 years earlier in Draper. This will be their fourth location in Draper, as the business
continues to expand. The have around 100 employees in total. He explained that there is a desire
for the business to remain in Draper and there is excitement about the project. There was support
expressed for the built in growth plan. Mr. Simons explained that the business began with three
people and now there are nearly 80 employees. It continues to grow.

Commissioner Nixon asked for clarification about the 100 employees mentioned earlier. Mr.
Simons clarified that there are almost 80 employees currently, but the plan is to expand once more
space becomes available. Commissioner Nixon wanted to better understand the request for
increased parking. Mr. Simons explained that in previous locations, there has been a shortage of
parking, so the intention is to address that through the proposal. Commissioner Nixon noted that
it is uncommon to request additional parking, but it seems to make sense given the information
provided. Mr. Simons reported that there is a willingness to address the landscaping needs that
were mentioned earlier.

Vice-Chair Fowler opened the public hearing.

Mason Chavez is one of the architects working on the project. There has been close collaboration
with Staff throughout this process to ensure compliance. The comments from Staff are accurate
regarding the landscape, and they have since been addressed to bring it into compliance.

There were no further comments. The public hearing was closed.

Vice-Chair Fowler expressed support for the additional parking request because parking can be an
issue, and sufficient parking must be provided for its use. It was noted that three motions will be
required to address the requests related to this property.

Motion: Commissioner Squire moved to APPROVE the Parking Deviation, as requested by
Robert Simons, representing Concord Properties, application 2025-0219-VAR, based on the
findings for approval listed in the Staff Report dated October 16, 2025:

Findings for Approval:

       1.      Adequate parking will be provided.

       2.      The total number of spaces otherwise required would be overly burdensome
               to individual establishments in the development.

       3.      Site or use specific conditions or factors do not provide for compliance with
               the parking requirements of the DCMC.

       4.      Potential for future expansion or addition to the development will have
               adequate parking for the expansion or addition.
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
October 23, 2025
Page 6

      5.      ADA-compliant parking requirements are not proposed for adjustment.

Second: Commissioner Fidler seconded the motion.

Vote on Motion: 5-to-0 in favor.

       Commissioner        Yes   No    Abstained     Not Participating     Absent
       Chair Adams                                                         X
       Fowler              X
       Squire              X
       Nixon               X
       Shirey                                                              X
       Ogden                                                               X
       Fidler, Alternate   X
       Shah, Alternate                               X
       Green, Alternate    X

Motion: Commissioner Nixon moved to APPROVE the Site Plan, as requested by Robert
Simons, representing Concord Properties for the Specialized Manufacturing Site,
application 2025-0123-SP, based on the findings for approval and subject to the conditions
listed in the Staff Report dated October 16, 2025:

Findings for Approval:

      1.      The proposal represents development of the entire site at one time.

      2.      With the imposed conditions, the Site Plan conforms to applicable standards
              set forth in Title 9 of the DCMC, including but not limited to, building heights,
              setbacks, access points, parking, landscaping, and building materials.

      3.      The proposed development plans meet the intent, goals, and objectives of the
              General Plan and the purpose of the Zone District in which the site is located.

      4.      The public facilities and services in the area are adequate to support the
              subject development, as required by engineering standards and specifications.

      5.      The proposed development plans comply with the engineering standards
              found in Titles 7, 8, 11, 12, 16, and 18 of the DCMC, including traffic, storm
              water drainage, and utilities concerns.

Second: Commissioner Green seconded the motion.

Vote on Motion: 5-to-0 in favor.
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
October 23, 2025
Page 7

       Commissioner        Yes   No   Abstained    Not Participating    Absent
       Chair Adams                                                      X
       Fowler              X
       Squire              X
       Nixon               X
       Shirey                                                           X
       Ogden                                                            X
       Fidler, Alternate   X
       Shah, Alternate                             X
       Green, Alternate    X

Motion: Commissioner Squire moved to APPROVE the Conditional Use Permit, as
requested by Robert Simons, representing Concord Properties for the Limited
Manufacturing and Limited Wholesale and Warehousing uses, application 2025-0079-USE,
based on the findings for approval and subject to the conditions listed in the Staff Report
dated October 16, 2025:

Finding for Approval:

      1.      The proposal complies with the standards for approval found in DCMC
              Section 9-5-080(E), and potential negative impacts are mitigated through the
              imposition of reasonable conditions.

Second: Commissioner Fidler seconded the motion.

Vote on Motion: 5-to-0 in favor.

       Commissioner        Yes   No   Abstained    Not Participating    Absent
       Chair Adams                                                      X
       Fowler              X
       Squire              X
       Nixon               X
       Shirey                                                           X
       Ogden                                                            X
       Fidler, Alternate   X
       Shah, Alternate                             X
       Green, Alternate    X
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
October 23, 2025
Page 8

       D.      Public Hearing: Premier Engraving and Awards. Home Occupation
               Conditional Use Permit Request.
               (Administrative Item)
               On the request of Chloe Wardle, representing Premier Engraving and Awards, a
               Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit to operate a cottage business for
               approximately 0.50 acres, located at approximately 201 East 13560 South, known
               as Application 2025-0173-USE. Staff Contact: Nick Whittaker, (801) 576-6522,
               nick.whittaker@draperutah.gov.

City Planner Nick Whittaker presented the Staff Report and stated that the request is for a Home
Occupation CUP. The request is to operate a cottage business for approximately 0.50 acres. The
applicant property is located at approximately 201 East 13560 South. It is Residential Medium
Density and is in the RA2 (Residential Agricultural) Zone. The Vicinity Map, Aerial Map, and
Land Use Map were shared with the Commission. Mr. Whittaker reported that the applicant is
seeking a Home Occupation CUP to operate a cottage business that provides custom engraving
and creates small custom awards and gifts sold online. The Draper City Municipal Code considers
this a cottage business. In DCMC 9-3-040, a cottage business is defined as the following:

   •   A business where products are created in the home. The products are unique in nature,
       such as handicrafts, art, and jewelry. Limited food production can also be considered.
       Anything that uses a material, a mixture of materials, or a quantity of materials that could
       be classified by the Fire Marshal or Building Official as dangerous or hazardous will not
       be allowed.

The site plan was shared with the Commission. Mr. Whittaker reported that no customers will
come to the home, and there are no business vehicles. The business use will be contained within
the home. The floor plan was reviewed, and Mr. Whittaker explained that two spaces in the home
will be utilized. One space is an office area with two computers and administrative storage. The
other space is the main engraving area with three engraving machines, two UV printers, four
computers, and supplies. The identified potential impacts were shared. These relate to the
possibility of loud noises and traffic generated by customers. He reviewed the proposed mitigation
measures:

   •   That all engraving and assembly of the custom gift items shall be confined to the areas
       indicated in this report and as shown on the approved plans;
   •   No customers come to the home;
   •   All requirements of the Draper City Engineering, Public Works, Building, Planning, and
       Fire Divisions shall be satisfied;
   •   The applicant shall maintain an active Business License for as long as the business is in
       operation from the residence.

Commissioner Squire noted that customer traffic will not be an issue because customers are not
coming to the home. However, she wondered whether noise might be an issue and asked for
additional information about the equipment to be used. She wanted to know whether the
equipment's sound could be heard outside the home. Mr. Whittaker reported that, according to the
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
October 23, 2025
Page 9

materials submitted by the applicant, the equipment does not make discernible noise. The
applicant, Chloe Wardle, introduced herself to the Commission. She and her husband recently
purchased this business. The previous owners ran it out of their home in Taylorsville for 35 years
without complaint. As for the equipment, there are three engraving machines and two UV printers.
The sound is contained within the room. It cannot be heard within the rest of the home or outside
of the house. Commissioner Fidler asked about mail and deliveries. Ms. Wardle reported that
mail is taken to the post office. Deliveries will be minimal to standard UPS shipping.

Vice-Chair Fowler opened the public hearing. There were no comments. The public hearing was
closed.

Motion: Commissioner Fidler moved to APPROVE the Home Occupation Conditional Use
Permit, as requested by Chloe Wardle, representing Premier Engraving and Awards,
application 2025-0173-USE, based on the following findings for approval and subject to the
conditions listed in the Staff Report dated October 8, 2025:

Finding for Approval:

       1.      The proposal complies with the standards for approval found in DCMC
               Section 95-080(E) and potential negative impacts are mitigated through the
               imposition of reasonable conditions.

Second: Commissioner Nixon seconded the motion.

Vote on Motion: 5-to-0 in favor.

        Commissioner        Yes   No     Abstained     Not Participating     Absent
        Chair Adams                                                          X
        Fowler              X
        Squire              X
        Nixon               X
        Shirey                                                               X
        Ogden                                                                X
        Fidler, Alternate   X
        Shah, Alternate                                X
        Green, Alternate    X
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
October 23, 2025
Page 10

       E.      Public Meeting: Eagle Crest No. 3 at Suncrest Subdivision Plat Amendment
               Request.
               (Administrative Item)
               On the request of John and Krista Lebaron, a Subdivision Plat Amendment on 0.83
               acres of property located at 15641 South Winged Trace Court in the RR-22 (Rural
               Residential) Zone, Suncrest Development Agreement, known as application 2025-
               0056-SUB. Staff contact is Nick Whittaker at 801-576-6522 or
               nick.whittaker@draperutah.gov.

Mr. Whittaker presented the Staff Report and stated that a request for a Subdivision Plat
Amendment has been received. The property is located at 15641 South Winged Trace Court and
is in the RR-22 (Rural Residential) Zone. The Vicinity Map, Aerial Map, and Land Use Map were
shared with the Commission. Beyond the property lines, the area is rural, with residential low- to
medium-density land use. Mr. Whittaker reported that the request is for a proposed adjustment of
the area of non-disturbance located on the subject property. The adjustment to the non-disturbance
area is to allow for more developable space on the property. A geotechnical study was conducted
at the subject property, and the report concludes that the proposed non-disturbance area can support
development so long as the structures built in that area follow the stipulations listed in the
geotechnical report.

The site plan was shared with the Commission. Mr. Whittaker identified the original non-
disturbance area. He explained that the applicant proposes to change the non-disturbance area to
the red lines shown in the image. This shift does not remove the non-disturbance area, but pushes
it back. The current subdivision Plat was reviewed. He highlighted the non-disturbance area as
shown on the original subdivision plat and noted that there has not been an amendment made to
Eagle Crest No. 3 at Suncrest to date. The plat amendment document was presented. He explained
that no boundary lines are proposed for change, but the non-disturbance area is proposed for
change.

Commissioner Fidler asked about the difference. She wanted to understand how much would be
removed from the non-disturbance area. Mr. Whittaker reported that the non-disturbance area of
the subject property is approximately 0.54 acres. The total acreage of the property is 0.83 acres,
so a significant amount of the property is the non-disturbance area. As for what is proposed, he
did not add the exact number into the Staff Report but shared the site plan with the Planning
Commission for reference. The Commission further reviewed the current subdivision plat
presentation slide.

Commissioner Nixon mentioned compliance with the geotechnical report. She asked if the City
Engineer had had the opportunity to review the report. City Engineer Brien Maxfield confirmed
that he has reviewed the geotechnical report. It was reviewed to verify that there were no issues
with pulling the non-disturbance back. Staff does not see any issues with the proposed amendment.
Discussions were had about the non-disturbance area and the rationale for it on the subject
property. Mr. Whittaker reported that the proposal is to remove 1,641 square feet of the non-
disturbance area.
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
October 23, 2025
Page 11

It was noted that on the earlier aerial image, something appeared to be built in the non-disturbance
area. It was reported that there is currently a garden bed. The property owners disturbed that area
before there was an awareness of the non-disturbance, so this amendment will also correct that
situation. However, the amendment is mainly to allow for future expansion of the home. There
are also some retaining walls in the non-disturbance area, so this amendment will correct that by
removing them from the non-disturbance area. The current subdivision plat was further reviewed.
There were concerns about setting a precedent if the non-disturbance area of this lot is amended.
It is important to think about what other property owners might request in the future.
Commissioner Nixon did not have an issue with the amendment, as long as what is outlined in the
geotechnical report is followed. It makes sense to allow the owners to utilize the lot as much as
possible. Commissioners felt the increase in square footage seemed reasonable given the lot size.

Mr. Whittaker addressed concerns about what other property owners might request in the future.
He explained that the procedure requires a Geotechnical Report. The city reviews the geotechnical
report before presenting anything to the Planning Commission.

The applicants, John and Krista Lebaron, introduced themselves to the Commission. Mr. Lebaron
explained that they have lived at the property for 10 years. There is a desire to have a greenhouse
and use more of the land. Commissioner Green asked if the non-disturbance area was
communicated to the property owners at the time of purchase. Mr. Lebaron explained that it is
shown on the plat. There was a misunderstanding that the non-disturbance was issued by the
Homeowners Association (“HOA”) rather than the City. There was a discussion with the HOA
when the outdoor garden was built, but the HOA did not actually have permission to grant that
use. As a result, work has been done with the staff to see what can be done about the current
situation. Commissioner Squire wondered whether the retaining walls were in place when the
property was purchased, but this was denied. Mr. Lebaron believed the builder received approval
for the walls and was previously unaware that a small portion of the retaining walls was non-
conforming. He discussed the rationale for the location.

Vice-Chair Fowler noted that this is not a public hearing item and asked for additional comments
from the Commissioners. Commissioner Squire stated that in these cases, it would be preferable
to see a trade of some sort. For example, some of the land removed from the non-disturbance area
to be added back in somewhere else. She asked for clarity about the lines shown on the site plan.
Mr. Whittaker provided clarification on the locations of the existing and proposed lines.

Commissioners further reviewed the site plan image and discussed the proposed plat amendment.
It was noted that an earlier version did not include one of the wall sections. However, the neighbors
built across the line, so a request was made to include that wall in the proposal. That retaining
wall is from a neighboring property, but was built across the property line.

Motion: Commissioner Nixon moved to APPROVE the Eagle Crest No. 3 at Suncrest
Subdivision Plat Amendment for Lot 539,, as requested by John and Krista Lebaron,
application 2025-0056-SUB, based on the following findings for approval and subject to the
requirements listed in the Staff Report dated October 8, 2025:

Finding for Approval:
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
October 23, 2025
Page 12


       1.     There is Good Cause for the amendment, and no public street or municipal
              utility easement will be vacated or amended.

Second: Commissioner Fidler seconded the motion.

Vote on Motion: 5-to-0 in favor.

       Commissioner        Yes   No    Abstained     Not Participating    Absent
       Chair Adams                                                        X
       Fowler              X
       Squire              X
       Nixon               X
       Shirey                                                             X
       Ogden                                                              X
       Fidler, Alternate   X
       Shah, Alternate                               X
       Green, Alternate    X

       F.     Public Hearing: Plummer Zoning Map Amendment Request.
              (Legislative Item)
              On the request of Benchmark Engineering, representing LRP TR, for a Land Use
              Map and Zoning Map Amendment on 1.31 acres of property located at 1360 East
              13200 South in the RA1 (Residential Agricultural) Zone, applications 2025-0137-
              MA.        Staff contact is Nick Whittaker at 801-576-6522 or
              nick.whittaker@draperutah.gov.

The above item was continued to the November 13, 2025 Planning Commission Meeting.

       G.     Public Hearing: Fetzer Land Use and Zoning Map Amendment Requests.
              (Legislative Item)
              On the request of Natalie Thorell, representing Robert and Debbie Fetzer, a Land
              Use Map and Zoning Map Amendment on 0.89 acres of property located at 1394
              East 12900 South in the RA2 (Residential Agricultural) Zone, applications 2025-
              0192-MA and 2025-0193-MA. Staff contact is Nick Whittaker at 801-576-6522 or
              nick.whittaker@draperutah.gov.

This item was continued to a future Planning Commission Meeting.

2.     Other Business.

       A.     Coordination Between City Staff and Planning Commission (as needed).

It was reported that Station Area Plans were certified by the Wasatch Front Regional Council
(“WFRC”) earlier in the day. As for the City Council Meeting on October 21, 2025, the Kimballs
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
October 23, 2025
Page 13

Junction Addition Zoning Map and Land Use Map Amendments were approved. Commissioners
expressed appreciation for the update.

3.    Adjournment.

Motion: Commissioner Squire moved to ADJOURN.

The Vice-Chair adjourned the meeting at 7:23 pm.
