                               Development Review Committee
                                    1020 East Pioneer Road
                                      Draper, UT 84020
                                            August 18, 2025

To:             Draper City Planning Commission
                Business Date: August 28, 2025

From:           Development Review Committee

Prepared By: Todd A. Draper, AICP, Planning Manager
             Planning Division
             Community Development Department
             801-576-6335, todd.draper@draperutah.gov

Re:     City Initiated Concord Properties – Land Use Map and Zoning Map Amendment
        Requests
        Application No.: 2025-0197-MA and 2025-0206-MA
        Applicant:        Draper City
        Project Location: Approximately 687 W. 12300 S.
        Current Zoning: RA2 (Residential Agricultural, 20,000 ft² min. lot size) Zone
        Acreage:          Approximately 0.27 Acres (Approximately 11,761 ft2)
        Request:          Request for approval of a Land Use Map Amendment from the
                          Open Space/Parks land use designation to the Community
                          Commercial land use designation and from the RA2 zone to the
                          CG (General Commercial) zone to eliminate the split land use and
                          zoning designations of the site.



BACKGROUND AND SUMMARY
This application is a request for approval of a Land Use Map Amendment and a Zoning
Map Amendment for approximately 0.27 acres located on the south side of 12300 South, at
approximately 687 W. 12300 S. (Exhibit C & D). The subject area is currently within the
Open Space/Parks land use designation and is zoned RA2. The applicant is requesting that
the Land Use Map and Zoning Map Amendments be approved to eliminate the split land
use and zoning designations of the site.

In March of 2025 the City sold approximately 0.27 acres of property to Concord Properties
adjacent to a parcel of land that they owned and adjusted the mutual property boundary
line between the two. The land use and zoning designations of the approximately 0.27



City Initiated Concord Properties                             App. #2025-0197-MA and #2025-0206-MA
Land Use Map and Zoning Map Amendment Requests    1
acres that were sold do not align with the Community Commercial land use designation or
CG zoning that exists on the balance of the Concord Properties property. If these requests
are approved it would correct that oversight and allow for the intended commercial
development of the parcel to proceed.

ANALYSIS
General Plan and Zoning.

 Table 1                 General Plan and Zoning Designations                     Exhibit
 Existing Land Use       Open Space/Parks                                         Exhibit E
 Current Zoning          RA2                                                      Exhibit F
 Proposed Land           Community Commercial
 Use
 Adjacent Zoning
     East                RA2
     West                CG
     North               CG
     South               RA2

The Open Space/Parks land use designations is characterized as follows:




The Community Commercial land use designation is characterized as follows:




City Initiated Concord Properties                    App. #2025-0197-MA and #2025-0206-MA
Land Use Map and Zoning Map Amendment Requests   2
According to Draper City Municipal Code (DCMC) Section 9-8-020 the purpose of the RA2
zone is to “foster low density development with little impact on its surroundings and municipal
services; to generally preserve the character of the city's semirural areas; and to promote and
preserve conditions favorable to large lot family life, including the keeping of limited numbers of
animals and fowl. The predominant use in these zones is intended to be detached single-family
dwellings, protected from encroachment by commercial and industrial uses.”

The purpose of the CG zone according to DCMC Section 9-8-020 is to, “provide areas to
accommodate commercial uses which are not within shopping centers of integrated design. This
zone is intended to apply to existing "strip commercial" developments. The zone should not be
used for new commercial development unless integrated shopping center development is not
practical or desirable because of difficult size, shape, topography, or similar problems related to
land otherwise deemed to be appropriate for commercial use. Typical uses in this zone include
offices, retail stores, personal services, heavy commercial, and institutional uses.

Criteria For Approval.




City Initiated Concord Properties                         App. #2025-0197-MA and #2025-0206-MA
Land Use Map and Zoning Map Amendment Requests   3
The Land Use Map amendment request falls under DCMC Section 9-2-020(F) because the
Land Use Map is part of Draper City’s General Plan. That section lists the following criteria
for a General Plan amendment as:

        Plan Amendment: All plan amendments shall be in accordance with Utah Code
        Annotated 10-9a-404, as amended and, unless requested by the city's legislative body,
        shall follow the procedures as outlined in Draper City Municipal Code 9-5-060(D).” That
        section is noted as follows:

        D.      Procedure: Zoning text and map amendments shall be considered and processed
                as provided in this subsection:
                1.     A complete application shall be submitted to the office of the zoning
                       administrator in a form established by the administrator along with any
                       fee established by the city’s schedule of fees. The application shall include
                       at least the following information:
                       a.      The name, address and telephone number of the applicant and
                               the applicant’s agent, if any.
                       b.      The name and address of every person or company the applicant
                               represents.
                       c.      The requested amendment and reasons supporting the request.
                       d.      If the proposed amendment requires a change in the zoning map,
                               the application shall include:
                               (1)      An accurate property map showing present and proposed
                                        zoning classifications;
                               (2)      All abutting properties showing present zoning
                                        classifications; and
                               (3)      An accurate legal description and an approximate common
                                        address of the area proposed to be rezoned.
                       e.      If the proposed amendment requires a change in the text of this
                               title, the application shall include chapter and section references
                               and a draft of the proposed text.
                2.     After the application is determined to be complete, the zoning
                       administrator shall prepare a staff report evaluating the application.
                3.     The planning commission shall schedule and hold a public hearing on the
                       application as provided in sections 9-5-040 and 9-5-045 of this chapter.
                       Following the public meeting, the planning commission shall recommend
                       approval, approval with modifications, or denial of the proposed
                       amendment and shall submit its recommendation to the city council for
                       review and decision.
                4.     The city council shall schedule and hold a public hearing on the
                       application as provided in sections 9-5-040 and 9-5-045 of this chapter.
                       Following the public hearing, the city council may approve, approve with
                       modifications, or deny the proposed amendment.



City Initiated Concord Properties                          App. #2025-0197-MA and #2025-0206-MA
Land Use Map and Zoning Map Amendment Requests   4
A Map Amendment is a matter committed to the legislative discretion of the City Council
and is not controlled by any one standard. However, in making a recommendation to the
City Council, the Planning Commission should consider the following factors in Section 9-5-
060(E) of the DCMC:

        1. Map Amendments:
            a. Whether the proposed amendment is consistent with goals, objectives and policies
               of the city's general plan;
            b. Whether the proposed amendment is harmonious with the overall character of
               existing development in the vicinity of the subject property;
            c. Whether the proposed amendment is consistent with the standards of any
               applicable overlay zone;
            d. The extent to which the proposed amendment may adversely affect adjacent
               property; and
            e. The adequacy of facilities and services intended to serve the subject property,
               including, but not limited to, roadways, parks and recreation facilities, police and
               fire protection, schools, stormwater drainage systems, water supplies, and
               wastewater and refuse collection.

The proposed Map amendments are consistent with the goals, objectives and policies of
the city’s general plan in that their approval will allow for the entire property to be
developed in a consistent manner and supports Economic Vitality goal EV-1 from the
General Plan. That goal emphasizes the need for retention and expansion of businesses in
Draper including the support for small businesses in Draper. The overall site is proposed to
be developed as the new location of Specialized Manufacturing, an existing local business.
Economic Vitality goal EV-3 is also supported by the change as the changes to the land use
and zoning designations will support the renovation and reuse of the currently vacant
parcel, and the planned expansion of the local business will result in the creation of new
jobs.

The amendments are harmonious with the overall commercial character of properties that
front onto 12300 South, and would create a uniform zoning classification and land use
designation for the overall subject property. The immediately adjacent property is owned
by the City as part of the Galena Park complex, and adverse impacts from the proposed
changes for this small area would be relatively negligible. There is no new or additional
burden placed on facilities and services intended to serve the overall property by the
proposed changes.

REVIEWS
Planning Division Review. The Draper City Planning Division has completed their review of
the Land Use Map and Zoning Map Amendment submissions. Comments from this
division, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.



City Initiated Concord Properties                         App. #2025-0197-MA and #2025-0206-MA
Land Use Map and Zoning Map Amendment Requests   5
Engineering and Public Works Divisions Review. The Draper City Engineering and Public
Works Divisions have completed their reviews of the Land Use Map and Zoning Map
Amendment submissions. Comments from these divisions, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Building Division Review. The Draper City Building Division has completed their review of the
Land Use Map and Zoning Map Amendment submissions. Comments from this division, if
any, can be found in Exhibit A.

GIS Division Review. The Draper City GIS Division has completed their review of the Land
Use Map and Zoning Map Amendment submissions. Comments from this division, if any,
can be found in Exhibit A.

Fire Division Review. The Draper City Fire Marshal has completed his review of the Land Use
Map and Zoning Map Amendment submissions. Comments from this division, if any, can
be found in Exhibit A.

Legal Division Review. The Draper City Attorney has completed their review of the Land Use
Map and Zoning Map Amendment submissions. Comments from this division, if any, can
be found in Exhibit A.

Noticing. Notice has been properly issued in the manner outlined in the City and State
Codes.



STAFF RECOMMENDATION
Staff recommends that the Planning Commission review the requests, receive public
comment, and make decisions based on the findings listed below and the criteria for
approval, or denial, as listed within the staff report.



MODEL MOTIONS
Land Use Map Amendment
Sample Motion for Positive Recommendation – I move that we forward a positive
recommendation to the City Council for the Land Use Map Amendment, as requested by
Draper City, application 2025-0206-MA, based on the following findings and the criteria for
approval listed in the Staff Report dated August 19, 2025.

Findings for Approval:
       1. The proposed map amendment is consistent with goals, objectives, and policies
           of the city's general plan.
       2. The proposed map amendment is harmonious with the overall character of
           existing development in the vicinity of the subject property.



City Initiated Concord Properties                     App. #2025-0197-MA and #2025-0206-MA
Land Use Map and Zoning Map Amendment Requests   6
        3. The proposed map amendment will not adversely affect adjacent property.
        4. There are adequate facilities and services intended to serve the subject property,
           including, but not limited to, roadways, parks and recreation facilities, police and
           fire protection, schools, stormwater drainage systems, water supplies, and
           wastewater and refuse collection.
        5. The proposed land use map amendment complies with DCMC Section 9-2-
           020(F).
        6. The legislative body may adopt any amendment to the general plan land use
           map that the legislative body considers appropriate.

Sample Motion for Modified Positive Recommendation – I move that we forward a positive
recommendation to the City Council for the Land Use Map Amendment, as requested by
Draper City, application 2025-0206-MA, based on the following findings and the criteria for
approval listed in the Staff Report dated August 19, 2025, and as modified by the following
additional findings:

        1. (List any additional findings …)

Sample Motion for Negative Recommendation – I move that we forward a negative
recommendation to the City Council for the Land Use Map Amendment, as requested by
Draper City, application 2025-0206-MA, based on the findings and the criteria for denial as
listed in the Staff Report dated August 19, 2025.

Findings for Denial:
       1. The proposed map amendment is not consistent with goals, objectives, and
           policies of the city's general plan.
       2. The proposed map amendment is not harmonious with the overall character of
           existing development in the vicinity of the subject property.
       3. The proposed map amendment will adversely affect adjacent property.
       4. There are not adequate facilities and services intended to serve the subject
           property, including, but not limited to, roadways, parks and recreation facilities,
           police and fire protection, schools, stormwater drainage systems, water supplies,
           and wastewater and refuse collection.
       5. The legislative body may reject any amendment to the general plan land use
           map that the legislative body considers appropriate.

Zoning Map Amendment
Sample Motion for Positive Recommendation – I move that we forward a positive
recommendation to the City Council for the Zoning Map Amendment, as requested by
Draper City, application 2025-0197-MA, based on the following findings and the criteria for
approval listed in the Staff Report dated August 19, 2025.

Findings for Approval:



City Initiated Concord Properties                       App. #2025-0197-MA and #2025-0206-MA
Land Use Map and Zoning Map Amendment Requests   7
        1. The proposed map amendment is consistent with goals, objectives, and policies
           of the city's general plan.
        2. The proposed map amendment is harmonious with the overall character of
           existing development in the vicinity of the subject property.
        3. The proposed map amendment is consistent with the standards of any
           applicable overlay zone.
        4. The proposed map amendment will not adversely affect adjacent property.
        5. There are adequate facilities and services intended to serve the subject property,
           including, but not limited to, roadways, parks and recreation facilities, police and
           fire protection, schools, stormwater drainage systems, water supplies, and
           wastewater and refuse collection.

Sample Motion for Modified Positive Recommendation – I move that we forward a positive
recommendation to the City Council for the Zoning Map Amendment, as requested by
Draper City, application 2025-0197-MA, based on the following findings and the criteria for
approval listed in the Staff Report dated August 19, 2025, and as modified by the following
additional findings:

        1. (List any additional findings …)

Sample Motion for Negative Recommendation – I move that we forward a negative
recommendation to the City Council for the Zoning Map Amendment, as requested by
Draper City, application 2025-0197-MA, based on the following findings and the criteria for
denial listed in the Staff Report dated August 19, 2025.

Findings for Denial:
       1. The proposed map amendment is not consistent with goals, objectives, and
           policies of the city's general plan.
       2. The proposed map amendment is not harmonious with the overall character of
           existing development in the vicinity of the subject property.
       3. The proposed map amendment will adversely affect adjacent property.
       4. There are not adequate facilities and services intended to serve the subject
           property, including, but not limited to, roadways, parks and recreation facilities,
           police and fire protection, schools, stormwater drainage systems, water supplies,
           and wastewater and refuse collection.




City Initiated Concord Properties                       App. #2025-0197-MA and #2025-0206-MA
Land Use Map and Zoning Map Amendment Requests   8
                                      EXHIBIT A
                                 DEPARTMENT REVIEWS

REVIEWS ARE NOT MEANT TO BE AN ALL-INCLUSIVE LIST OF POSSIBLE COMMENTS OR
CONDITIONS.



Planning Division Review.

       1. No additional Comments

Engineering and Public Works Divisions Review.

       1. No additional Comments

Building Division Review.

       1. No additional Comments

Fire Division Review.

       1. No additional Comments

GIS Division Review.

       1. No additional Comments

Legal Division Review.

       1. No additional Comments
                                         EXHIBIT B
                                     LEGAL DESCRIPTION

Commencing at the Southwest comer of Section 25, Township 3 South Range 1 West, Salt Lake
Meridian; thence North 00°10'24" East 1179.61 feet along section line; thence South 89°22'27" East
94.79 feet to the POINT OF BEGINNING; thence North 00°16'22" East 51.54 feet; thence South 89°45'26"
East 228.79 feet; thence South 02°10'54" West 53.09 feet; thence North 89°22'23" West 227.03 feet to
the POINT OF BEGINNING.
  EXHIBIT C
VICINITY MAP
 EXHIBIT D
AERIAL MAP
  EXHIBIT E
LAND USE MAP
 EXHIBIT F
ZONING MAP
    EXHIBIT G
PUBLIC COMMENTS
From:                chris hughes
To:                  Todd Draper
Subject:             [EXT] App. #: 2025-0197-MA
Date:                Monday, August 18, 2025 5:42:44 PM




[EXTERNAL SENDER! Only open attachments/links you know are safe.]

Hi Todd,

Thanks for the notice on the hearing regarding the property 687 W. 12300 S.

The mixed use of res/agg has served people well in this area. And if the property can be either residential or
agricultural I can’t see any reason to change it and in fact believe it is both inconsistent with the area and really
unfair to your "West of the Tracks” residents like myself.

Taking that tract of land and making it commercial is simply an unnecessary segue to continuing to rezoning the
properties west of this one…moving farther toward 950 West.

Draper has huge areas that are currently open to general commercial zoning. Why stick a piece of general
commercial in an area that has established a character that is not commercial? Honestly, Todd, would this happen
on the more influential and wealthy side of I-15?

I tend to believe that by the time a city wants “input” it is disingenuous because decisions are already made.   I hope
that is not the case here.

Thanks for listening,

Chris Hughes
                               Draper,
