MINUTES OF THE DRAPER CITY PLANNING COMMISSION MEETING HELD ON
THURSDAY, JANUARY 23, 2025, IN THE DRAPER CITY COUNCIL CHAMBERS

PARTICIPATING: Lisa Fowler, Vice-Chair
               Commission Member Susan Nixon
               Commission Member Mary Squire
               Commission Member Kendra Shirey
               Commission Member Gary Ogden

EXCUSED:             Andrew Adams, Chair
                     Alternate Commission Member Laura Fidler
                     Alternate Commission Member Shivam Shah
                     Alternate Commission Member Christine Green

STAFF:               Jennifer Jastremsky, Community Development Director
                     Todd Draper, Planning Manager
                     Spencer DuShane, City Attorney
                     Brien Maxfield, Senior Engineering Manager
                     Nick Whittaker, City Planner
                     Lori Stout, Administrative Assistant
                     Michael Todd, Police Officer
                     Mike Elkins, Police Officer
                     Devin Sorensen, Police Officer
                     David Bernal, Code Enforcement

6:30 PM Business Meeting

In the absence of Chair Andrew Adams, Vice-Chair Lisa Fowler called the meeting to order at
6:01 PM and welcomed those present.

1.     Items for Commission Consideration.

       A.     Public Meeting: Kogel I-ADU Deviation Request (Administrative Action)This
              Item to be continued to the February 13, 2025, Planning Commission Meeting.
              On behalf of Jayme Kogel & Jean Weatherwax, a request for approval of a
              Deviation from strict compliance with the geographical restrictions for Internal
              Accessory dwelling Units (I-ADUs) on approximately 0.14 Acres located at
              approximately 268 E Steep Mountain Dr. Known as application 2024-0427-VAR,
              Staff Contact: Nick Whittaker, 801-576-6522, nick.whittaker@draperutah.gov.

The above item was continued to February 13, 2025.
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
January 23, 2025
Page 2

       B.      Public Hearing: Lionheart Enterprise, LLC. Conditional Use Permit.
               (Administrative Item)
               On behalf of Dwight Beckstrand of Beckstrand Law, representing Lionheart
               Enterprises, LLC. & B T B Enterprise LLC, a Conditional Use Permit request to
               operate a limited manufacturing business on approximately 6.80 acres located at
               12411 South 265 West, Suite C. Known as Application 2024-0361-USE, Staff
               Contact: Nick Whittaker, 801-576-6522, nick.whittaker@draperutah.gov

City Planner, Nick Whittaker, presented the Staff Report and stated that the request is for a
Conditional Use Permit to operate a business called Nutrastrips. The vicinity, aerial, land use, and
zoning maps were displayed. The property’s Land Use Designation is Industrial and
Manufacturing. The property’s Zoning is Business/Manufacturing Park (“CBP”). Mr. Whittaker
explained that a Conditional Use Permit was required as the proposed land use was Limited
Manufacturing within the CBP Zone. The site plan, floor plan, and site photos were reviewed.
The property has two buildings that house multiple businesses. Mr. Whittaker reviewed the impact
analysis and proposed mitigation against the potential for noise, odor, and vibration being
discernable outside of the building.

Dwight Beckstrand from Beckstrand Law was present representing the applicant. He reported that
the machine utilized for the manufacturing is approximately the size of a pizza oven and will
involve cleanroom manufacturing, which is permitted in the CBP Zone. He stated no noise would
be detected from outside, though the smell of peppermint is sometimes detectable. Mr. Beckstrand
stated that concerns were raised regarding a byproduct called ethylene oxide on the property,
however, this is never used in production. The product is a chemical used for cleaning medical
manufacturing equipment that cannot be cleaned with soap and water. Lionheart uses soap and
water to clean its equipment and there is no ethylene oxide on the premises.

Nutrastrips Founder and Chief Executive Officer Benjamin Bartel reported that his company is a
clean manufacturing facility that is certified under Good Manufacturing Process (“GMP”) and the
National Sanitation Foundation (“NSF”). The neighbor has registered a complaint regarding
ethylene oxide which stems from the use of a sensor purchased on Amazon. Mr. Bartel turned on
a device that he stated was an unopened sensor of the same type and advised that the reading in
Chambers was higher than that in the complaint. He asserted that he communicated with the
manufacturer and learned that the sensor picks up carbon monoxide and alcohol vapors, resulting
in a false positive reading. Photos of sensor readings in various locations were provided by Mr.
Bartel and added to the record.

In response to a question regarding Stop Work Orders and issues with compliance with City
Ordinances, Mr. Beckstrand explained that the facility was relocated from Vineyard to this facility
in April 2024. They applied for a Business License at which time they learned that a Conditional
Use Permit was needed. The applicant described the process and later brought Mr. Beckstrand in
to complete the filing. They have been as diligent as possible, but the Stop Work Orders came as
a result of the delay in obtaining a Business License.
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
January 23, 2025
Page 3

In response to a question, Mr. Beckstrand confirmed that the facility obtained manufacturing
certificates from the Food and Drug Administration (“FDA”) and the Utah Department of
Agriculture. He advised that there were no issues with the Department of Air Quality that he was
aware of.

Vice-Chair Fowler opened the public hearing.

Christopher Sanders identified himself as the legal counsel for PurpleAir, the business adjacent to
Lionheart Industries. He asserted that the applicant did not have respect for the process and had
been operating illegally for nearly one year. Work continued after a Stop Work Order was issued
and after follow-up visits by law enforcement. His client’s concerns were outlined in a letter
submitted to the Commission. He argued that the device shown by the applicant had not been
calibrated and data shows that levels spike when the manufacturing of Nutrastrips is in process.
He stated that illnesses have been caused at PurpleAir and caused grave concern. He noted that
the applicant will not comply with the conditions imposed on them.

Adrian Dybwad, the owner of PurpleAir, found it concerning to come into the office and smell the
applicant’s manufacturing process and noted that they have been operating for some time illegally.
He commented that at first it smells like peppermint or stale cigarettes but it becomes an issue over
time. He stated that the chemicals are akin to working in a body shop every day. He was worried
about the health of the children visiting his office, his employees, and himself. Many have
complained about having headaches and he felt dizzy recently. He stated that mitigating the issue
by opening his own front and back door for ventilation had improved the situation but it is difficult
to deal with in weather. He commented that the applicant has been operating illegally and will not
adhere to the conditions set forth in a Conditional Use Permit as evidenced by the seven citations
issued and does not obey the Stop Work Orders.

James Lund, general counsel for Pacific Bridge, the tenant adjacent to the east of Lionheart
Industries. Pacific Bridge has worked from the current location for more than five years and
witnessed issues between PurpleAir and Lionheart over parking and other concerns. He was in
favor of reasonableness and treating each other fairly. He noted that there have been several
attempts at independent, third-party professional testing that were refused by PurpleAir. He
asserted that the burden of proof is on PurpleAir to show that health issues exist. He commented
that the 20 to 30 employees in the 60,000-square-foot Pacific Bridge facility are healthy and have
no issues.

Tracy Gibbs, Nutrastrips Executive Vice President, stated that he has a PhD in Pharmacognosy.
As a scientist, he understands the device and readings being utilized by the neighboring business
owner. He explained that the device tests for more than seven different gases, most of which are
harmless, but it does not discern between types. He has worked at Nutrastrips for nearly two years
and has never had a health concern, in the current or the previous facility in Vineyard. They have
31 employees who work three shifts each day and there have been no internal health or smell
complaints. He commented that the only odor is a few times a month when peppermint is on the
machines but he cannot smell or hear anything outside the building. He felt harassed by the
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
January 23, 2025
Page 4

neighbor and employees have had issues with being recorded. He noted that every seal had been
double caulked and the HVAC system was separated to appease the neighbor.

Chelsea __________ reported that she has worked for PurpleAir for a long time and there had
never been problems with any other neighbors. She asserted that the smells are horrible and the
physical effects such as headaches, nausea, and foggy head have been an issue since April 2024
when Lionheart moved in. She has never dealt with those types of health concerns before and
every employee in the office has been impacted.

Jessica Bird works for PurpleAir and stated that PurpleAir shares a wall with the clean room, while
Pacific Bridge does not. As a result, they may not smell the odors as much. She has experienced
the same side effects described, including nausea and dizziness, and stated that she arrives early to
air the building out in the hopes that others do not have the same experience.

Tabitha Newbreast, Nutrastrips Quality Director, explained that everything they use is food grade
and all of the materials and chemicals have been vetted. She would investigate any failures but
there had not been any. She works on-site long hours and none of them have been sick. The Fire
Department was called on occasion and she was tested for carbon monoxide contamination which
came back at zero.

Tianna Ozuna has been with PurpleAir for 90 days and lives with chronic asthma. Since working
at PurpleAir she has had numerous asthma attacks due to the smells and the air in the building.
She commented that just getting out of her car in the morning, she could smell the odors outside
the building and experienced pain in her lungs.

Rafael Quevedo translated for Luisaly Socorro, who stated that she mixes the products to
manufacture Nutrastrips. She is a healthy person and has never reacted to any of the products. All
of the products used for cleaning and sanitizing are food-grade. She stated that her skin, face, and
breathing are good and she has been with the company for two years. She noted that the only
smells are peppermint, raspberry, strawberry, and other normal smells, and volunteered to be tested
to show that she is completely healthy.

Wendy Martinez has worked with PurpleAir for 4.5 years, and after returning from a break over
the last year she has been feeling ill, including headaches, blurry vision, and vomiting. She
commented that the smell in the morning when the building opens for business is bad. She
expressed concern that they are working in the building with chemicals that set off the sensors.

Melissa Rasmussen has worked with PurpleAir for seven years and there was not a problem before
Nutrastrips. She asserted that the smell is not just peppermint and the odors resemble a morgue.
Everyone has been sick with headaches and dizziness and they would not be bringing it forward if
it was not a problem. She commented on issues with parking and trash and stated that she has
picked up hundreds of Nutrastrips off the ground. She commented that PurpleAir is making the
world a better place and should not have to sit in smells or have doors open in the winter.
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
January 23, 2025
Page 5

Julie Johnson, Nutrastrips Executive Assistant to the CEO, has been with the company since
March 2024 and has never had any of the health issues described. Her first interaction with
PurpleAir related to a concern brought to her that someone was parked in the boss’ spot but none
of the parking was marked. She stated that being neighbors has increasingly gotten worse with
aggressive interactions and employees being harassed. She commented that they would love to
have a good working environment for everyone involved but it has not been that way.

Joshua Conner, PurpleAir employee, has never met someone with a worse sense of smell than
himself, and at first, he was skeptical of the complaints. He had never suffered from frequent
headaches but after a long day sometimes he has to go home because his head starts to hurt. He
asserted that this is not a place he or those he cares about should have to be.

Rafael Quevedo has worked with Nutrastrips for one year. He has experienced allergies and
asthma since childhood and his skin is reactive to chemicals, but he has not had any issues since
working with Nutrastrips. There are frequently people from PurpleAir at the back of the building
vaping and smoking cigarettes when he goes out to unload deliveries, which makes him feel bad.

Matthew Hawkins was of the opinion that Nutrastrips produces a smell. He and his father went to
PurpleAir at night to set up detectors and after being there 10 to 15 minutes, he began feeling
nauseous and distraught. He stated that recently there has been excessive banging and loud music
and he hopes it will stop.

There were no further comments. The public hearing was closed.

Mr. Beckstrand presented a declaration from the landlord’s representative, Mark Beesley. Vice-
Chair Fowler clarified for the record that the Commission received the declaration and had an
opportunity to review it prior to the meeting. Mr. Beckstrand read the declaration from Mr.
Beesley, outlining a parking dispute that had gone awry and concerns that the tenant, PurpleAir,
was not able to get along with others. The statement advised that after being walked through the
process of manufacturing and cleaning, the landlord believed Mr. Bartel’s explanation to be
credible. It further advised that despite multiple landlord entreaties over several months, PurpleAir
has produced no credible evidence that Nutrastrips or any tenant at the property uses or stores
ethylene oxide. No tenant, employee, or contractor of a tenant outside of PurpleAir has complained
of smells or exposure. The landlord has visited the property multiple times since June 2024 and
has made an effort to detect odors on the property.

According to Mr. Beesley’s statement, representatives of PurpleAir contacted the Draper Fire
Department twice. On or about August 2, 2024, the Fire Department evacuated the property,
inspected it, tested the air, and found no cause for concern, though they did recommend tenants
ventilate warehouse areas when using forklifts. The evacuation of the property negatively affected
the business of the landlord and all tenants of the property. The second call was made on January
20, 2025, and the Fire Department found no grounds to inspect the property. Other than the
allegations that Nutrastrips uses ethylene oxide to clean machinery, PurpleAir has not explained
why this suite is the target of its air quality allegations. The landlord has repeatedly asked for
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
January 23, 2025
Page 6

access to the air sampling records, but PurpleAir has not responded to requests or produced a
professional contact as promised.

Mr. Beesley’s statement indicated that tenants have complained of Mr. Dybwad entering their
suites unannounced, conducting air analysis and disrupting business, and more recently
approaching male and female employees in the parking lot after dark, video recording them and
engaging in threatening behavior. The complaints have been found credible, and Mr. Dybwad has
been notified that further complaints may constitute grounds for release. The landlord secured a
contractor in June 2024 to fill any gaps and cracks in the wall between suites B and C at a cost of
$4,000, and the contractor represented that gaps and cracks were filled and there should be no
significant air transfer, if any. In August 2024, an HVAC contractor inspected the rooftop HVAC
units in both suites and confirmed zero cross-ventilation. In September 2024, the HVAC
contractor fabricated and installed an outdoor air hood, damper, and filter on the rooftop of suite
B to provide constant outside airflow and to slightly pressurize the space to prevent outward air
migration at a cost of $1,500. The contractor represented that there was virtually no chance of
cross-airflow when HVAC units were in use.

The statement advised that in January 2025, testing was scheduled at the property to test for
ethylene oxide and other volatile compounds in connection with this application but was
subsequently canceled as Mr. Dybwad complained and there was concern the only complaining
tenant would not accept the results. The landlord has provided floor plans for alternative sites in
the compound and invited PurpleAir to move away from the alleged danger or to be released from
their lease to be allowed to move elsewhere, but they have not responded.

In response to questions, it was confirmed that the Occupational Safety and Health Administration
(“OSHA”) had not responded to any complaints on the property. The Food and Drug
Administration (FDA) and the Utah Department of Agriculture conduct inspections prior to issuing
certifications, and the FDA conducts an annual inspection.

Mr. Bartel stated that if his company felt they were doing something incorrect, dangerous, or
hazardous they would address it, but based on their research and findings, they did not feel there
was anything to be addressed. He questioned the motives behind calling the Fire Department,
asserting that his employees had their oxygen tested but Mr. Dybwad refused and returned to work.
He commented that he would also not want to put his own health at risk and believed the air quality
readings included false positives. He noted NSF and other inspectors had visited the facility. He
stated the machines vent straight out, through the room, and into the HVAC system.

At the request of Commissioner Squire, Mr. Bartel stated for the record that he does not have
ethylene oxide on the premises, nor have they purchased it or used it in the past. He noted the
monitor is not exclusively testing for ethylene oxide. Anything with alcohol in it would set off the
monitors, and due to the certification by the landlord that there is no airflow between the units, he
believes the monitors are being set off by PurpleAir’s own sanitation process. In response to a
follow-up question, Mr. Bartel stated the only thing that would have alcohol in his manufacturing
process would be the flavors, which utilize an alcohol-based extract.
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
January 23, 2025
Page 7

In response to a question from Commissioner Shirey, Mr. Bartel reported that his company is
certified for oral strip manufacturing and undergoes certification and auditing processes annually.

Commissioner Squire stated the Commission was not an authority on emissions and nothing
definitive had come of the testimony. She asked staff for direction on how to consider the
allegations in making its determination. City Attorney, Spencer DuShane advised that the
Commission should stay within the scope of its role as a Planning Commission. He stated
operating a business without a license was an issue for the courts, and the City has no authority to
regulate anything toxic in the air. He noted the Fire Department responds for health and safety,
but not for regulation. He reviewed the applicable section of the Municipal Land Use Management
Act in the State Statute in relation to the Land Use Authority’s role in a Conditional Use Permit
application, followed by the applicable City Ordinance.

Commissioner Nixon inquired about the third-party inspection referenced by Mr. Beesley and the
reasons it was canceled. The Commission reviewed the reasons outlined in Mr. Beesley’s
statement.

In response to a question from Vice-Chair Fowler, Mr. Whittaker confirmed that no documentation
had been submitted from an independent air quality expert regarding the alleged chemicals being
present at this facility.

Commissioner Squire noted the staff recommendations showed hours of production being from
8:00 AM to 5:00 PM and asked if that included cleaning. Discussion ensued as to the hours of
operation, and Mr. Beckstrand confirmed the administrative offices are open from 8:00 AM to
5:00 PM and manufacturing operations are three shifts in the clean room area. Mr. Whittaker
commented that he had been under the impression that production was limited to these hours when
drafting the report.

Commissioner Squire asked if 24-hour production was allowed within the CBP Zone. Mr.
Whittaker believed it was allowed under the Code so long as they were not violating noise
ordinances. Discussion ensued as to the elimination of the condition.

Commissioner Ogden stated if there was not an odor complaint, this application would be approved
quickly. He asserted that it was difficult for him to determine what was going on when hearing
contradictory statements from two groups of people. Mr. DuShane explained that the role of the
Planning Commission is to listen to the presentation and comments, then weigh the evidence and
make a determination. He explained the standard was a standard of substantial evidence and
described substantial evidence briefly.

In response to a question from Commissioner Squire, Mr. DuShane noted that the Code states that
the Commission shall approve if reasonable conditions can be imposed to mitigate the effects of
the proposed use. He advised that findings should be supported by substantial evidence.

Commissioner Squire stated that staff identified the possible detrimental effects, the Staff Report
identified mitigation to the satisfaction of the City, and this was a reasonable basis for approval.
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
January 23, 2025
Page 8


Commissioner Ogden noted that the applicant had done everything they could, including a separate
air system, and a separate wall which has been caulked and double caulked so there is no
penetration of air based on the evidence submitted, but there will likely still be odor.

Commissioner Squire respected the concerns of the employees of PurpleAir but stated that the
standard of substantial evidence does not provide a reasonable basis to deny the Conditional Use
Permit. Based on the evidence provided, the concern has been addressed.

Commissioner Shirey pointed to Condition 3, which requires that there be no noise, odor,
vibration, or other impacts discernible outside the building, and asked for clarification on the
standard. Mr. Whittaker explained that the condition resulted from the language in the definition
of Manufacturing, Limited in the DCMC.

Motion: Commissioner Squire moved to APPROVE the Conditional Use Permit as
requested by Dwight Beckstrand of Beckstrand Law, representing Lionheart Enterprises,
LLC. & B T B Enterprise LLC, Application No. 2024-0361-USE, subject to the following:

Findings for Approval:

       1.     The proposal complies with the standards for approval found in DCMC
              Section 9-5-080(E), and the potential negative impacts are mitigated through
              the imposition of reasonable conditions.

Conditions:

       1.     That all requirements of the Draper City Engineering, Public Works,
              Building, Planning, and Fire Divisions are satisfied throughout the
              development of the site and the construction of all buildings on the site,
              including permitting.

       2.     That a Draper City Business License shall be obtained prior to operating and
              shall be maintained by the business owner for as long as the business remains
              in operation.

       3.     That there shall be no noise, odor, vibration, or other impacts discernible
              outside of the building.

       4.     That the HVAC and filtration system be maintained in functional operational
              working order at all times when manufacturing operations are taking place
              inside the building.

Second: Commissioner Shirey seconded the motion.

Vote on Motion: 5-to-0 in favor.
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
January 23, 2025
Page 9


       Commissioner        Yes   No   Abstained   Not Participating   Absent
       Fowler              X
       Squire              X
       Adams                                                          X
       Ogden               X
       Nixon               X
       Shirey              X
       Fidler, Alternate                          X
       Shah, Alternate                            X
       Green, Alternate                           X

2.     Adjournment.

Motion: Commissioner Ogden moved to ADJOURN.              The motion passed with the
unanimous consent of the Commission.

The meeting adjourned at 8:03 PM.
