                                 Development Review Committee
                                     1020 East Pioneer Road
                                       Draper, UT 84020
                                        August 14, 2025

To:               Draper City Planning Commission
                  Business Date: August 28, 2025

From:             Development Review Committee

Prepared By: Nick Whittaker, MCMP, Planner II
             Planning Division
             Community Development Department
             801-576-6522, Nick.Whittaker@draperutah.gov


Re:      Think Him – Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit Request
         Application No.: 2025-0134-USE
         Applicant:        Tami Schlappi, representing, Think Him, Inc.
         Project Location: 641 E. Pheasant Haven Ct.
         Current Zoning: R3 (Single-family residential)
         Acreage:          Approximately 0.32 acres (13939 ft2)
         Request:          Request for approval of a Conditional Use Permit to operate a
                           cottage business home occupation that creates small jewelry.


BACKGROUND AND SUMMARY

This application is a request for approval of a Conditional Use Permit to operate a cottage
business home occupation on approximately 0.32 acres located on the east side of
Pheasant Haven Ct. at approximately 641 E. Pheasant Haven Ct. (Exhibits B and C). The
property is currently zoned R3. The home occupation creates small jewelry items and sells
them online.

The property is Lot 313 of the Pheasant Brook Estates, Phase 3 subdivision. The single-
family dwelling on the property was built in 1996. The business is operated from a
designated workspace located in the basement of the home (Exhibits G & H).



ANALYSIS



Think Him Home Occupation                                            App. # 2025-0134-USE
Conditional Use Permit Request                 1
General Plan and Zoning.

 Table 1                    General Plan and Zoning Designations               Exhibit
 Existing Land Use          Residential Medium Density                         Exhibit D
 Current Zoning             R3                                                 Exhibit E
 Existing Use               Single-Family Residential
 Adjacent Zoning
    East                    RA2 (Residential Agricultural)
    West                    R3
    North                   R3
    South                   R3

The Residential Medium Density land use designation is characterized as follows:




According to Draper City Municipal Code (DCMC) Section 9-8-020, the purpose of the R3
zone is to, “to permit medium density residential development without special mitigation
requirements. This zone is intended to provide incentives to foster residential development
with little impact on its surroundings and on municipal services, and to generally preserve
the semirural character called for in the density element of the general plan. ”



Think Him Home Occupation                                          App. # 2025-0134-USE
Conditional Use Permit Request                     2
Home Occupation. The DCMC Section 9-34-040 outlines development standards applicable
to all home occupations. Those criteria, along with information specific to the subject
request, are as follows:

         A. Ownership: The home occupation shall be owned and operated by a person who
             resides in the dwelling where the home occupation is located. Such person shall
             be the primary provider of the labor, work, or service provided in the home
             occupation.

             •    The applicant is the primary provider of labor (Exhibit H).
             •    The applicant is the owner of the business and the home (Exhibit H).

         B. Business License: A business license for the home occupation shall be obtained
             from and continually maintained with the city pursuant to title 6, chapter 11 of
             this code.

             •    The applicant has submitted an application for a business license and will be
                  required to maintain an active business license for as long as the business is
                  in operation from the residence.

         C. Employees: Members of the family of the owner who reside in the dwelling may
             be employed in the home occupation. Nonfamily or nonresident employees
             shall be limited to one person.

             •    The applicant is requesting a deviation to this criterion to allow for two (2)
                  non-resident employees to come to and work from the home (Exhibit H).

         D. Inspection: All facilities shall comply with fire, building, plumbing, electrical and
             all other city, county, state and federal codes. Inspections during reasonable
             hours by city officials may occur as necessary to assure compliance with
             regulations.

             •    Applicable inspections are completed as part of the business licensing
                  process.

         E. Inventory: No stock in trade, inventory, or other merchandise to exceed two
             hundred fifty (250) square feet shall be kept on the premises. No outside storage
             is allowed.

             •    The applicant indicates that they do not have inventory that exceeds 250
                  square feet, and that there is no outside storage (Exhibit H).




Think Him Home Occupation                                                  App. # 2025-0134-USE
Conditional Use Permit Request                    3
         F. Modification Of Structures Or Yards: There shall be no visible evidence from the
              exterior of a dwelling that it is being used for any other purpose than that of a
              dwelling. No activities shall be carried on outside the dwelling in the yard for the
              benefit of or incidental to the home occupation. No front yard area shall be
              altered to provide parking required for a home occupation.

              •   No new modifications to the dwelling structure or yard areas are being
                  proposed (Exhibit H).
              •   The applicant has requested a deviation to allow for two (2) parking stalls on
                  the driveway to provide off street parking for two (2) employees (Exhibits F &
                  H).
              •   The dimensions of the stalls on the provided site plan were not included and
                  the arrangement of the parking stall locations blocks access to one (1) of the
                  two (2) required garage stalls.

         G. Nuisance: Tools, items, equipment, or activities conducted within the dwelling
              which is offensive or noxious by reason of the emission of odor, smoke, gas,
              vibration, magnetic interference, or noise shall be prohibited.

              •   The applicant has indicated that the home occupation will not generate
                  odors or use tools that create nuisances (Exhibit H).

         H. Secondary Use: The home occupation shall be clearly incidental and secondary
              to the primary use of the dwelling for residential purposes. The home
              occupation shall not disrupt the normal residential character of the
              neighborhood in which the residence is located. Not more than twenty five
              percent (25%) of the dwelling unit shall be used for the home occupation.

              •   The designated workspace is located in a small room in the basement which
                  is approximately 196 ft² in size representing approximately 4% of the overall
                  area of the dwelling unit (Exhibit G).

         I.   Signs: All signage in a residential area must comply with chapter 26, "Signs", of
              this title.

              •   The applicant has indicated that no business signage will be posted on the
                  property (Exhibit H).

         J.   Traffic, Parking, And Access: No home occupation use shall generate pedestrian,
              parking, or vehicular traffic in excess of that customarily associated with the
              zone in which the use is located. All parking shall be provided and maintained on
              site with adequate provision for drop off traffic.




Think Him Home Occupation                                                 App. # 2025-0134-USE
Conditional Use Permit Request                    4
             •    The applicant is requesting a deviation from these criteria, to allow for two (2)
                  non-resident employees to come to and work from the property (Exhibit H).
             •    Two (2) off parking stalls can be provided for employees of the business
                  (Exhibits F & H).

         K. Vehicles: Other than the business owner's personal transportation, there shall
             be no vehicles or equipment on the property associated with the home
             occupation which would not normally be found at a residence. No signage for
             the home occupation shall be allowed on vehicles.

             •    The applicant is requesting a deviation from this criterion to allow for two (2)
                  employees to park their personal vehicles at the property for the duration of
                  their shift. (Exhibit H).
             •    The applicant did not indicate that the employee’s personal vehicles or any
                  other vehicles located at the property will have business signage on them.

         L. Yards: Yards surrounding the dwelling and accessory buildings shall not be used
             for any activities or storage of any materials associated with the home
             occupation.

             •    The applicant is requesting a deviation to this criterion to allow for two (2)
                  parking stalls which are located on the driveway to provide off street parking
                  for two (2) employees (Exhibits F & H).

         M. Customers: No customers allowed. Children accessing a limited daycare or
            limited preschool facility shall not be considered customers.

             •    There will be no customers coming to the home. Sales are conducted online
                  and orders are fulfilled by mail (Exhibit H).
             •    The business is not a limited daycare or limited preschool facility.

         N. Utility Demand: The home occupation shall not cause a demand for public
             utilities in excess of that necessarily and customarily provided for residential
             uses.

             •    The business use will not create an increased demand for public utilities
                  above that customarily provided for residential uses.

         O. Main Structure: The home occupations shall be conducted, located, and
            contained within the primary structure on the property.




Think Him Home Occupation                                                 App. # 2025-0134-USE
Conditional Use Permit Request                    5
             •    The home occupation is conducted, located, and contained within the
                  primary structure in a designated workspace in the basement (exhibits G &
                  H).

         P. Single-Family And Multiple-Family Dwellings: Home occupations listed as
             permitted or conditional within this title may be permitted in a single-family or a
             multiple-family dwelling, subject to the standards found within this section and
             section 9-34-060 of this chapter. Businesses within multiple-family dwellings
             shall provide an approval letter from the respective homeowners' association, or
             management company in the case of apartments, if the business proposes any
             employees, customers or business vehicles.

             •    The business is located within a single-family home and an approval letter
                  from a HOA or management company is not required.

         Q. Licensure: Any home occupation involving childcare shall comply with all
             applicable state and local laws and regulations regarding residential childcare,
             including, but not limited to, provisions of the Utah child care licensing act, as set
             forth in Utah Code Annotated section 26-39-101 et seq., as amended, and the
             residential certificate childcare standards as set forth in the Utah administrative
             code section R430-50-1 et seq., as amended. In addition, cottage food
             production operations are regulated and inspected by the Utah department of
             agriculture. Any food related home occupation under their jurisdiction must
             comply with these regulations.

             •    The proposed home occupation does not involve childcare or cottage food
                  production (Exhibit H).

The cottage business produces small jewelry, which are ordered online, and is then mailed
to the customers (Exhibit H). Customers do not come to the home. There are two (2) non-
resident employees who come to the property up to 3 times per week and work from 9:00
a.m. to 5:00 p.m. The employees park their personal vehicles in designated off-street
parking stalls located on the driveway (Exhibit G). No additional onsite parking is needed as
there are no customers coming to the home, and no business vehicles.

Staff recognizes that by operating a cottage business, there is the potential for negative
impacts to the neighborhood. Such impacts are primarily related to non-resident
employees working from the home, traveling to and from the home, and potentially
parking their vehicles on the street. Staff notes such impacts are minimal and are easily
mitigated as there are only two (2) employees who come to the home no more than 3
times a week, and the applicant has provided two (2) off-street parking stalls for employees
to park their personal vehicles. The increase to neighborhood traffic would be minimal.
Staff suggests that the applicant has proposed sufficient mitigation to potential negative



Think Him Home Occupation                                                 App. # 2025-0134-USE
Conditional Use Permit Request                   6
impacts and believes the proposed home occupation with the included mitigations would
not negatively impact the health, safety, or welfare of the city, the area, or persons owning
or leasing property in the area.

Criteria For Approval. The criteria for review and potential approval of a home occupation
conditional use permit request are found in Section 9-5-080(E) of the DCMC. This section
depicts the standard of review for such requests as:

         E. Approval Standards: The standards of this subsection shall apply to the issuance
             of a conditional use permit:
          1. A conditional use permit may be issued for a use to be located within a zone
             where the particular conditional use is allowed by the use regulations of the
             zone.
          2. Reasonable conditions may be imposed as necessary to substantially mitigate
             reasonably anticipated detrimental effects of the proposed use. These
             conditions may include conditions concerning use, construction, character,
             location, landscaping, screening, parking, hours of operation, and other matters
             relating to the purposes and objectives of this section. Such conditions shall be
             expressly set forth in the motion authorizing the conditional use permit.
          3. If the reasonably anticipated detrimental effects of a proposed conditional use
             cannot be substantially mitigated by the imposition of reasonable conditions to
             achieve compliance with applicable standards, the conditional use may be
             denied.
          4. The following factors shall be reviewed and considered in determining whether a
             conditional use permit application should be approved, approved with
             conditions, or denied because reasonable conditions cannot be imposed to
             achieve compliance with applicable standards:
               a. The harmony and compliance of the proposed use with the objectives and
                  requirements of the city's general plan and this title;
               b. The suitability of the specific property for the proposed use;
               c. Whether the proposed use or facility may be injurious to potential or existing
                  development in the vicinity;
               d. The economic impact of the proposed facility or use on the surrounding
                  area;
               e. The aesthetic impact of the proposed facility or use on the surrounding area;
               f. The safeguards proposed or provided to ensure adequate utilities,
                  transportation access, drainage, parking, loading space, lighting, screening,
                  landscaping, open space, fire protection, and pedestrian and vehicular
                  circulation;
               g. The safeguards provided or proposed to prevent noxious or offensive
                  emissions such as noise, glare, dust, pollutants and odor from the proposed
                  facility or use; and




Think Him Home Occupation                                               App. # 2025-0134-USE
Conditional Use Permit Request                  7
              h. The impact of the proposed facility or use on the health, safety, and welfare
                 of the city, the area, and persons owning or leasing property in the area.
          5. The planning commission may request additional information as may be
             reasonably needed to determine whether the requirements of this subsection E
             can be met.


REVIEWS

Planning Division Review. The Draper City Planning Division has completed their review of
the Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit submission. Comments from this division, if
any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Engineering and Public Works Divisions Review. The Draper City Engineering and Public
Works Divisions have completed their reviews of the Home Occupation Conditional Use
Permit submission. Comments from these divisions, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Building Division Review. The Draper City Building Division has completed their review of
the Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit submission. Comments from this division, if
any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Fire Division Review. The Draper City Fire Marshal has completed his review of the Home
Occupation Conditional Use Permit Submission. Comments from this division, if any, can
be found in Exhibit A.

Noticing. Notice has been properly issued in the manner outlined in the City and State
Codes.



STAFF RECOMMENDATION

Staff recommends that the Planning Commission review the request based on the findings
listed below and the criteria for approval, or denial as listed within the staff report. The
Planning Commission should also review the request, hear from the applicant, and receive
public comment prior to making a decision.

If the Planning Commission decides to approve the request, staff recommends they include
the following conditions of approval:

         1.       That all requirements of the Draper City Engineering, Public Works, Building,
                  Planning, and Fire Divisions shall be satisfied prior to issuance of a business
                  license or its renewal.
         2.       The applicant shall maintain an active business license for as long as the



Think Him Home Occupation                                                 App. # 2025-0134-USE
Conditional Use Permit Request                    8
                  business is in operation from the residence.
         3.       No customers shall be permitted to come to the home.
         4.       That only two (2) non-resident employees shall be permitted to work at the
                  property.
         5.       That prior to the issuance of the business license that a revised parking plan
                  be provided to planning staff showing the location of two (2) off-street
                  parking stalls for use of the non-resident employees. Parking stalls for
                  employees may not block access to the minimum required parking stalls for
                  the residence located in the garage. Stalls shall each measuring a minimum
                  of nine feet (9') wide by eighteen feet (18') deep.
         6.       The business-related production of jewelry shall be confined to the
                  designated workspace as illustrated on the approved plans.
         7.       That the business shall only operate on Monday through Friday between the
                  hours of 9:00 am and 5:00 pm.



MODEL MOTIONS AND FINDINGS

Sample Motion for Approval – I move that we approve the Home Occupation Conditional
Use Permit, as requested by Tami Schlappi, representing Think Him, Inc. application 2025-
0134-USE, based on the following findings for approval and subject to the conditions listed
in the Staff Report dated August 14, 2025.

Findings for approval:

         1. The proposal complies with the standards for approval found in DCMC Section 9-
            5-080(E) and potential negative impacts are mitigated through the imposition of
            reasonable conditions.

I move that we approve the Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit, as requested by
Tami Schlappi, representing Think Him, Inc. application 2025-0134-USE, based on the
findings for approval and subject to the conditions listed in the Staff Report dated August
14, 2025 and as modified by the following additional findings or conditions:

         1. List any additional findings…
         2. List any additional conditions…

Sample Motion for Denial – I move that we deny the Home Occupation Conditional Use
Permit, as requested by Tami Schlappi, representing Think Him, Inc. application 2025-0134-
USE, based on the following findings and the criteria for denial as listed in the Staff Report
dated August 14, 2025.

Findings for denial:



Think Him Home Occupation                                                App. # 2025-0134-USE
Conditional Use Permit Request                   9
         1. The proposal does not comply with all standards for approval found in DCMC
            Section 9-5-080(E) and potential negative impacts are not able to be sufficiently
            mitigated through the imposition of reasonable conditions.




Think Him Home Occupation                                              App. # 2025-0134-USE
Conditional Use Permit Request                 10
                   DEVELOPMENT REVIEW COMMITTEE ACKNOWLEDGEMENT


We, the undersigned, as duly appointed members of the Draper City Development Review
Committee, do acknowledge that the application which provides the subject for this staff
report has been reviewed by the Committee and has been found to be appropriate for
review by the Draper City Planning Commission and/or City Council.


                         0.j<afr       Tgr Bntn
                            C-'JS

Brien Maxfield                      OJ.P.»<WoA.> -




Draper City Public Works Department

                          nigitally .●‘(jnea B/ Den BjcUfty
                          DN; C*US. E-dsn DurkioyC'’draiiDi.ul u5,

Don Buckley               O'OraaorC.ly Firo Oopanmpm. OU -Fito
                          Mdruhal, CM-Ddd Ouc^lc/
                          Omo:SQ25 08.20 15:22 38 06 00'



Draper City Fire Department

                         OKjcsy iff-ce sy Mair^« Sjmc*
                         C.N C-US.

Matthew Symes E»fa*n siia>es©dri»ef-ijn off..
              O.Dcapcr C4y Ccrp . C'l>Ma:-nrw Sym«s
                         0»te-2C25 38 70 123^-47 06t»'



Draper City Building Division
                                     EXHIBIT A
                                DEPARTMENT REVIEWS

REVIEWS ARE NOT MEANT TO BE AN ALL-INCLUSIVE LIST OF POSSIBLE COMMENTS OR
CONDITIONS.



Planning Division Review.

       1.     No additional comments.

Engineering and Public Works Divisions Review.

       1.     No additional comments

Building Division Review.

       1.     No additional comments.

Fire Division Review.

       1.     No additional comments.
  EXHIBIT B
VICINITY MAP
 EXHIBIT C
AERIAL MAP
  EXHIBIT D
LAND USE MAP
 EXHIBIT E
ZONING MAP
EXHIBIT F
SITE PLAN
The first car can park between our two garages because my husband is in a wheelchair, so his van is
the only car that parks in the double car garage. The other car (IF they don't carpool) can park to the
far side of the cement area.
  EXHIBIT G
FLOOR PLANS
      EXHIBIT H
APPLICANT STATEMENTS
The first car can park between our two garages because my husband is in a wheelchair,
so his van is the only car that parks in the double car garage. The other car (IF they don't
carpool) can park to the far side of the cement area.

My sister and our friend come to the house on Tuesday and Wednesday from 10:00 am -
5:00 pm. Some days it's shorter, and sometimes only one of them will come
