                                    Development Review Committee
                                        1020 East Pioneer Road
                                          Draper, UT 84020
                                            October 17, 2025

To:               Draper City Planning Commission
                  Business Date: November 13, 2025

From:             Development Review Committee

Prepared By: Todd Taylor, Planner III
             Planning Division
             Community Development Department
             801-576-6510, todd.taylor@draperutah.gov

Re:      City Initiated Boundary Adjustment Update – Text Amendment Request
         Application No.: 2025-0254-TA
         Applicant:         Draper City
         Project Location: City Wide
         Current Zoning: City Wide
         Acreage:           City Wide
         Request:           Request for approval of a Text Amendment to portions of Draper
                            City Municipal Code (DCMC) Titles 9 and 17 in order to address
                            recent changes to Utah State Code related to boundary
                            adjustments.



BACKGROUND AND SUMMARY

This application is a request for approval of a Text Amendment for the purpose of amending
portions of Draper City Municipal Code (DCMC) Titles 9 and 17 to address recent changes to
Utah State Code.

The 2025 Utah State Legislative Session included Senate Bill (SB) 104 that modified the
process that municipalities must follow related to boundary adjustments, previously
referred to as lot line adjustments and parcel boundary adjustments. Draper City needs to
amend the DCMC in order to conform with the new State regulations.




City Initiated Boundary Adjustment Update                          App. No.: 2025-0254-TA
Text Amendment Request                             1
ANALYSIS

Text Amendments.

This report will review the modifications being proposed. The legislative copy of the changes
can be found in Exhibit B of this report. Additions to the text are indicated in blue, deletions
in red, and unchanged text in black.

DCMC Section 9-3-040: Definitions: Definitions for: Boundary Adjustment; Boundary
Adjustment, Simple; Boundary Adjustment, Full; and Boundary Establishment have been
added consistent with the new definitions in Utah State Code. The definitions for Lot Line
Adjustment and Parcel Boundary Adjustment have been deleted. Finally, the definitions for
Subdivision and Subdivision Amendment have been modified to be consistent with the
changes made to the Utah State Code.

DCMC Section 17-1-040: Definitions: Cross references to the definitions in Title 9 have been
added for: Boundary Adjustment; Boundary Adjustment, Simple; Boundary Adjustment, Full;
Boundary Establishment; and Subdivision Amendment.

DCMC Section 17-1-085: Public Notification: Text has been added to outline the requirements
for the requirements for notice of a public meeting, which is different than the notice for a
public hearing.

DCMC Section 17-9-020: Amendment Procedure: Text has been removed from the
Subdivision Amendment procedures which outline when amended plats which adjusts lot
lines are not required to go to a public hearing. This change is consistent with Utah State
Code.

DCMC Section 17-9-060: Property Boundary Adjustments: This section has been retitled as
Boundary Adjustments. Text has been added to outline the new Simple Boundary
Adjustment and Full Boundary Adjustment review and approval procedures. Staff will review
Boundary Adjustment applications to determine which process will be required. Simple
Boundary Adjustments are approved by the Zoning Administrator. Full Boundary
Adjustments require a Subdivision Amendment and are approved by the Planning
Commission. The prior procedures for Lot Line Adjustments and Parcel Boundary
Adjustments are deleted. These changes are consistent with Utah State Code.

Criteria For Approval.

A Zoning Text Amendment is a matter committed to the legislative discretion of the City
Council and is not controlled by any one standard. However, in making a recommendation
to the City Council, the Planning Commission should consider the following factors in DCMC
Section 9-5-060(E)(2):




City Initiated Boundary Adjustment Update                            App. No.: 2025-0254-TA
Text Amendment Request                         2
    2. Text Amendments:
       a. Whether the proposed amendment is consistent with goals, objectives and
          policies of the city's general plan;
       b. Whether a proposed amendment furthers the specific purpose statements of the
          zoning ordinance;
       c. Whether the proposed amendment is appropriate given the context of the
          request and there is sufficient justification for a modification to the zoning
          ordinance;
       d. The proposed amendment will not create a conflict with any other section or part
          of this title or the general plan;
       e. Whether the potential effects of the proposed amendment have been evaluated
          and determined not to be detrimental to public health, safety, or welfare and
          represents an overall community benefit; and
       f. The extent to which a proposed text amendment implements best current,
          professional practices of urban planning, design, and engineering practices


REVIEWS

Planning Division Review. The Draper City Planning Division has completed their review of
the Text Amendment submission. Comments from this division, if any, can be found in
Exhibit A.

Engineering and Public Works Divisions Review. The Draper City Engineering and Public
Works Divisions have completed their reviews of the Text Amendment submission.
Comments from these divisions, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Building Division Review. The Draper City Building Division has completed their review of
the Text Amendment submission. Comments from this division, if any, can be found in
Exhibit A.

Fire Division Review. The Draper City Fire Marshal has completed his review of the Text
Amendment submission. Comments from this division, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Legal Division Review. The Draper City Attorney has completed his review of the Text
Amendment submission. Comments from this division, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Noticing. Notice has been properly issued in the manner outlined in the City and State Codes.


STAFF RECOMMENDATION

Staff recommends that the Planning Commission review the request, receive public
comment, and make a recommendation to the City Council based on the findings and the
criteria for approval, or denial, as listed within the staff report.



City Initiated Boundary Adjustment Update                          App. No.: 2025-0254-TA
Text Amendment Request                        3
MODEL MOTIONS

Sample Motion for Positive Recommendation – I move that we forward a positive
recommendation to the City Council for the City Initiated Boundary Adjustment Update Text
Amendment, as requested by Draper City, Application No. 2025-0254-TA, based on the
following findings and the criteria for approval listed in the Staff Report dated October 17,
2025.

Findings for Approval:

    1. The proposed amendment is consistent with goals, objectives and policies of the
       City's General Plan;
    2. The proposed amendment is appropriate given the context of the request and there
       is sufficient justification for a modification to the development codes;
    3. The proposed amendment will not create a conflict with any other section or part of
       the development codes or the General Plan;
    4. The potential effects of the proposed amendment have been evaluated and are
       determined not to be detrimental to public health, safety, or welfare and represents
       an overall community benefit; and
    5. The proposed text amendment implements best current, professional practices of
       urban planning, design, and engineering practices.



Sample Motion for Modified Positive Recommendation – I move that we forward a positive
recommendation to the City Council for the City Initiated Boundary Adjustment Update Text
Amendment, as requested by Draper City, Application No. 2025-0254-TA, based on the
findings and criteria for approval listed in the Staff Report dated October 17, 2025, and as
modified by the following additional recommended modifications or findings:

    1. (List any additional modifications or findings…)



Sample Motion for Negative Recommendation – I move that we forward a negative
recommendation to the City Council for the City Initiated Boundary Adjustment Update Text
Amendment, as requested by Draper City, Application No. 2025-0254-TA, based on the
following findings and the criteria for denial listed in the Staff Report dated October 17, 2025.

Findings for Denial:

    1. The proposed amendment is not consistent with goals, objectives and policies of the
       City's General Plan;
    2. The proposed amendment is not appropriate given the context of the request and
       there is not sufficient justification for a modification to the development codes;



City Initiated Boundary Adjustment Update                             App. No.: 2025-0254-TA
Text Amendment Request                          4
    3. The proposed amendment could create a conflict with another section or part of the
       development codes or the General Plan;
    4. The potential effects of the proposed amendment have been determined to be
       detrimental to public health, safety, or welfare or do not represent an overall
       community benefit; and
    5. The proposed text amendment is not consistent with best current, professional
       practices of urban planning, design, and engineering practices.




City Initiated Boundary Adjustment Update                       App. No.: 2025-0254-TA
Text Amendment Request                      5
                                     EXHIBIT A
                                DEPARTMENT REVIEWS

REVIEWS ARE NOT MEANT TO BE AN ALL INCLUSIVE LIST OF POSSIBLE COMMENTS OR
CONDITIONS.



Planning Division Review.

   1. No additional comments received.

Engineering and Public Works Divisions Review.

   1. No additional comments received.

Building Division Review.

   1. No additional comments received.

Fire Division Review.

   1. No additional comments received.

Legal Division Review.

   1. No additional comments received.
                                         EXHIBIT B
                                     LEGISLATIVE DRAFT

9-3-040: DEFINITIONS:

As used in this title, the words and phrases defined in this section shall have the following
meanings unless the context clearly indicates a contrary meaning:

…

BOARDING HOUSE: A building with not more than five (5) guestrooms, where, for
compensation, meals are provided for not more than fifteen (15) persons.

BOUNDARY ADJUSTMENT: An agreement between adjoining property owners to relocate a
common boundary that results in a conveyance of property between the adjoining lots,
adjoining parcels, or adjoining lots and parcels. This definition does not mean a
modification of a lot or parcel boundary that creates an additional lot or parcel, or is made
by the Utah Department of Transportation (UDOT).

BOUNDARY ADJUSTMENT, SIMPLE: A boundary adjustment that does not affect a public
right-of-way, municipal utility easement, or other public property; affect an existing
easement, onsite wastewater system, or an internal lot restriction; or result in a lot or
parcel out of conformity with land use regulations.

BOUNDARY ADJUSTMENT, FULL: A boundary adjustment that is not a simple boundary
adjustment.

BOUNDARY ESTABLISHMENT: An agreement between adjoining property owners to clarify
the location of an ambiguous, uncertain, or disputed common boundary. This definition
does not mean a modification of a lot or parcel boundary that creates an additional lot or
parcel, or is made by the Utah Department of Transportation (UDOT).

BUBBLER: An irrigation head that delivers water to the root zone by “flooding” the planted
area, usually measured in gallons per minute. Bubblers exhibit a trickle, umbrella or short
stream pattern.

…

LOT LINE ADJUSTMENT: The relocation of a lot line boundary between adjoining lots or
between a lot and adjoining parcels in accordance with Title 17, whether or not the lots are
located in the same subdivision, and with the consent of the owners of record. This
definition does not include new boundary lines that would create an additional lot,
constitute a subdivision or a subdivision amendment, or a boundary line adjustment made
by the Utah Department of Transportation.

…
PARCEL BOUNDARY ADJUSTMENT: A recorded agreement between owners of adjoining
parcels adjusting the mutual boundary, either by deed or by a boundary line agreement in
accordance with Utah Code Annotated section 10-9a-524, as amended, if no additional
parcel is created and none of the property identified in the agreement is a lot or if the
adjustment is to the boundaries of a single person’s parcels. This definition does not mean
an adjustment that creates an additional parcel or parcels, constitutes a subdivision, or a
boundary line adjustment made by the Utah Department of Transportation.

…

SUBDIVISION: Any land that is divided, resubdivided, or proposed to be divided into two (2)
or more lots or other division of land for the purpose, whether immediate or future, for
offer, sale, lease, or development either on the installment plan or upon any and all other
plans, terms, and conditions.

A.     "Subdivision" includes:

       1.     The division or development of land whether by deed, metes and bounds
              description, devise and testacy, map, plat, or other recorded instrument,
              regardless of whether the division includes all or a portion of a parcel or lot;
              and

       2.     Except as provided in subsection B, divisions of land for all residential and
              nonresidential uses, including land used or to be used for commercial,
              agricultural, and industrial purposes.

B.     "Subdivision" does not include:

       1.     A bona fide division or partition of agricultural land for the purposed of
              joining one of the resulting separate parcels to a contiguous parcel of
              unsubdivided agricultural land, if neither the resulting combined parcel nor
              the parcel remaining from the division or partition violates an applicable land
              use ordinance land used for agricultural purposes as provided in Utah Code
              Annotated, section 10-20-808(2);

       2.     A boundary line agreement recorded with the county recorder’s office
              between owners of adjoining parcels adjusting the mutual boundary in
              accordance with Utah Code Annotated, section 10-9a-524, if no new parcel is
              created;

       2 3.   A recorded document, executed by the owner of record, conveyance
              document revising the legal descriptions of consolidating multiple lots or
              parcels into one legal description encompassing all such lots by reference to
              a recorded plat and all parcels by metes and bounds description; or

       4.     A recorded document, executed by the owner of record joining a lot to a
              parcel;
       5.      A boundary line agreement between owners of adjoining subdivided
               properties adjusting the mutual lot line boundary in accordance with Utah
               Code Annotated sections 10-9a-524 and 10-9a-608 if no new dwelling lot or
               housing unit will result from the adjustment and the adjustment does not
               violate any applicable land use ordinance;

       3 6.    A bona fide division of land by deed or other instrument if the deed or other
               instrument states in writing that the division is in anticipation of future land
               use approvals on the parcel or parcels, does not confer any land use
               approvals, and has not been approved by the city;

       4 7.    A parcel boundary adjustment;

       5 8.    A lot line adjustment boundary establishment;

       6 9.    A road, street, or highway dedication plat;

       7 10.   A deed or easement for a road street, or highway proposed; or

       8 11.   Any other division of land authorized by law.

SUBDIVISION AMENDMENT: An amendment to a recorded subdivision that: vacates all or a
portion of the subdivision; alters the outside boundary of the subdivision; changes
increases the number of lots within the subdivision; alters a public right-of- way, a public
easement, or public infrastructure within the subdivision; or alters a common area or other
common amenity within the subdivision. This definition does not include a lot line simple
boundary adjustment, between a single lot and an adjoining lot or parcel, that alters the
outside boundary of the subdivision.

…

17-1-040: DEFINITIONS:

…

BOND AGREEMENT: An agreement to install improvements secured by a standby
irrevocable letter of credit, or an escrow agreement with funds on deposit in a federally
insured bank in an amount corresponding to the city engineer's estimate. All bonds shall
be on forms approved by the city council wherever a bond is required pursuant to this title.

BOUNDARY ADJUSTMENT: See definition of Boundary Adjustment in Section 9-3-040 of this
Code.

BOUNDARY ADJUSTMENT, SIMPLE: See definition of Boundary Adjustment, Simple in
Section 9-3-040 of this Code.

BOUNDARY ADJUSTMENT, FULL: See definition of Boundary Adjustment, Full in Section 9-3-
040 of this Code.
BOUNDARY ESTABLISHMENT: See definition of Boundary Establishment in Section 9-3-
040 of this Code.

BUILDING, COMMERCIAL: Any structure used or intended for supporting or sheltering any
commercial use or occupancy.

…

SUBDIVISION: The same as defined See definition of Subdivision in Section 9-3-040 of this
Code.

SUBDIVISION AMENDMENT: See definition of Subdivision Amendment in Section 9-3-040 of
this Code.

SUBDIVISION, MINOR: A subdivision of ten (10) or fewer lots which meets the requirements
of this title for minor subdivisions.

…

17-1-085: PUBLIC NOTIFICATION:

A.     Required Public Hearing Notice: Any public hearing required herein shall be
       scheduled and held by the planning commission. Required notice of such hearing
       shall be given as follows not less than ten (10) calendar days before the public
       hearing:

       1.     The city shall mail notice of a public hearing to consider a proposed
              subdivision plat amendment or a minor subdivision with deviation requests
              to the record owner of each lot or parcel within three hundred feet (300') of
              the subject property. The notice shall contain at a minimum the information
              included in a notice summary statement as defined by Utah Code Annotated,
              63G-30- 101(3), as amended.

       2.     If the plat amendment proposes to vacate some or all of a public street or
              municipal utility easement, the city shall:

              a. Mail a notice of the public hearing to the record owner of each lot or
              parcel that is accessed by the public street or municipal utility easement.

       …

B.     Required Public Meeting Notice: Any public meeting required herein shall be
       scheduled and held by the planning commission. Required notice of such hearing
       shall be given as follows not less than ten (10) calendar days before the public
       hearing:

       1.     The city shall mail notice of a public meeting to the record owner of each lot
              or parcel abutting the subject property. The notice shall contain at a
              minimum the information included in a notice summary statement as
              defined by Utah Code Annotated, 63G-30-101(3), as amended.

       2.     Mailed to each affected entity as defined in section 9-3-040 of this Code that
              provides a service to an owner of record of the portion of the plat that is
              being amended.

       3.     Published on the city’s website and on the Utah Public Notice Website.

C B. The applicant shall pay to the city a fee in the amount of the actual costs incurred by
      the city in mailing and posting the notice.

D C. Notice for an amendment to public improvements in a subdivision or development:
      Prior to implementing an amendment to adopted specifications for public
      improvements that apply to subdivisions or development, a municipality shall give
      thirty (30) days mailed notice and an opportunity to comment to anyone who has
      required the notice in writing.

E D. Notice for Continued Items: When an application requiring notice under this section is
      continued to a future meeting date, including when a specific date is listed in the
      continuation, a new notice shall be provided as outlined in this section. No
      additional notice shall be required when an item is continued as an action item and
      the public hearing has been closed.

F E. Water Conveyance Facility Owner Notice: If a water conveyance facility is located
      entirely or partially within one-hundred feet (100') of a subdivision as determined
      using information made available to the city as prescribed in Utah Code Annotated
      10-9a-603 10-20-803, as amended, the city shall provide notice of the application to
      the water conveyance facility owner within twenty (20) days of receiving the
      complete application. The city shall provide the facility owner twenty (20) days to
      comment on the application prior to making a decision on the application. A facility
      owner’s failure to provide comments to the city shall not affect or impair the city’s
      authority to approve the subdivision plat.

…

17-9-020: AMENDMENT PROCEDURE:

…

E.     Public Hearing Not Required: Not withstanding sections B and C in this section, the
       public hearing requirements do not apply and the planning commission may
       consider an owner’s petition for a subdivision plat amendment at a public meeting,
       subject to notice being given to adjoining property owners per section 17-1-085 of
       this code, if the petition seeks to:

       1.     Join two or more of the petitioner fee owner's contiguous lots as outlined
              in 17-9-060 of this chapter;
     2.     Subdivide one or more of the petitioning fee owner's lots, if the subdivision
            will not result in a violation of a land use ordinance or a development
            condition;

     3.     Adjust the lot lines of adjoining lots or between a lot and an adjoining parcel
            if the fee owners of each of the adjoining properties join in the petition,
            regardless of whether the properties are located in the same subdivision, as
            outlined in 17-9-060 of this chapter;

     3 4.   On a lot owned by the petitioning fee owner, adjust an internal lot restriction
            imposed by ordinance; or

     4 5.   Alter the plat in a manner that does not change the existing boundaries or
            other attributes of lots within the subdivision that are not:

            a.     Owned by the petitioner; or

            b.     Designated as a common area.

…

17-9-060: PROPERTY BOUNDARY ADJUSTMENTS:

A.   Simple Boundary Adjustment: The owners of adjoining property may apply for a
     simple boundary adjustment.

     1.     An application for a simple boundary adjustment shall:

            a.     include a conveyance document that complies with Utah Code
                   Annotated Section 57-1-45.5; and

            b.     describe all lots or parcels affected by the proposed boundary
                   adjustment.

     2.     The Zoning Administrator shall consent to the proposed simple boundary
            adjustment if the simple boundary adjustment:

            a.     meets the requirements of subsection 1; and

            b.     does not: affect a public right-of-way, municipal utility easement, or
                   other public property; affect an existing easement, onsite wastewater
                   system, or an internal lot restriction; or result in a lot or parcel out of
                   conformity with land use regulations.

     3.     If the Zoning Administrator determines that a proposed simple boundary
            adjustment does not meet the requirements of subsection 2, a full boundary
            adjustment is required.

B.   Full Boundary Adjustment: The owners of adjoining property may apply for a full
     boundary adjustment.
     1.     An application for a full boundary adjustment shall include:

            a.     a conveyance document that complies with Utah Code Annotated
                   Section 57-1-45.5;

            b.     a record of survey; and

            c.     a proposed plat amendment corresponding with the proposed full
                   boundary adjustment, prepared in accordance with Section 17-9-050.

     2.     The Planning Commission shall consent to the proposed full boundary
            adjustment if:

            a.     the proposal submitted to the City includes all necessary information;

            b.     the record of survey shows no evidence of a violation of a land use
                   regulation; and

            c.     the plat amendment corresponding with the proposed full boundary
                   adjustment has been approved in accordance with Section 17-9-020.

G.   Boundary Adjustment Approval: Approval of a simple or full boundary adjustment is
     an administrative act. A notice of consent shall be provided to the applicants in a
     format that is consistent with Utah Code, annotated.

I.   Land Use Enforcement: The recording of a boundary adjustment does not constitute
     a land use approval. The City may enforce municipal ordinances against, or withhold
     approval of a land use application for, property that is subject to a boundary
     adjustment or a boundary establishment if the City determines that the resulting
     lots or parcels are not in compliance with the City’s land use regulations that were in
     effect on the day on which the boundary adjustment or boundary establishment
     was recorded.

A.   Lot Line Adjustments: To make a lot line adjustment between property owners, or to
     join a petitioner fee owner’s contiguous lot(s) with a petitioner fee owner’s
     contiguous parcel:

     1.     The property owner or owners shall:

            a.     Submit an application for an obtain approval of the lot line
                   adjustment from the Zoning Administrator;

            b.     Execute a boundary line adjustment through a quitclaim deed or
                   boundary line agreement; and

            c.     Record the notice of approval from the Zoning Administrator, which
                   recites the legal descriptions of both the original properties and the
                   properties resulting from the exchange of title, together with a
                         quitclaim deed or boundary line agreement in the office of the county
                         recorder.

       2. The joining of a lot or lots to a parcel does not constitute a subdivision as to the
parcel or subject the parcel to other sections of Title 17.

          3. The Zoning Administrator shall approve the lot line adjustment if the exchange
of title will not result in a violation of any land use ordinance.

           4. An application for a lot line adjustment between property owners shall be filed
jointly.

B. Joining Lots: A fee owner may join two (2) or more of the petitioner fee owner's
contiguous lots by following the subdivision plat amendment process in Title 17.

C. Parcel Boundary Adjustments: To make a parcel boundary adjustment, a property
owner shall execute a boundary adjustment through a quitclaim deed or boundary line
agreement and record the quitclaim deed or boundary line agreement with the county
recorder.

       1. A Parcel boundary adjustment is not subject to the city's review unless any of the
subject parcels contain a dwelling unit.

           2. Parcel boundary adjustments that require review by the city shall:

                  a. Be filed jointly by the owners of both subject properties.

                  b. Include a boundary line agreement that complies with the provisions of
           Utah Code Annotated 10-9a-524(2), as amended, and includes a statement citing the
           file number of the record of survey map in accordance with Utah Code Annotated
           17-23-17, as amended.

       3. Within 14 days from the receipt of a complete application for a parcel boundary
adjustment, the zoning administrator or designee shall review and approve applications
that comply with the following requirements:

                  a. No additional parcels will result from the adjustment.

                  b. Existing dwelling unit(s) and other structures on the parcel(s) will
           maintain compliance with the current setbacks for the zoning district in which they
           are located. Where existing dwelling unit(s) or structures are nonconforming as to
           current setback requirements, the amount or degree of nonconformity will not
           increase as a result of the parcel boundary adjustment.

                  c. The proposed parcel boundary adjustment will not create a violation of
           any land use ordinance or other city ordinances.

        4. If the zoning administrator or their designee finds that an application is deficient
or if additional information is required to approve the boundary line agreement, they shall
provide written notice to the property owners of the deficiency or additional information
required within the 14-day timeframe from the date of the initial submittal. Such notice
shall include the following:

              a. A description of the specific deficiency or additional information required.

              b. A statement that the boundary line agreement will be approved upon the
       correction of the deficiency or submission of the additional information.

             c. A statement that failure to correct the deficiency or provide the additional
       information may result in denial and/or expiration of the application.

       5. Upon receipt of the information requested in subsection (C)(4) above, the zoning
administrator or designee shall review the complete application according to the provisions
of subsection (C)(3) above.

       6. Upon approval of the application, the zoning administrator or designee shall
provide a notice of approval to the property owners within 14 days of the receipt of the
application.

       7. The property owners that are a party to the application shall record with the
county recorder within thirty (30) days of the issuance of the notice of approval the notice
of approval together with a quitclaim deed or boundary line agreement that results in the
property boundary adjustment described by the proposed legal descriptions submitted
with the parcel boundary adjustment application.

       8. The zoning administrator or designee shall deny an application that does not
comply with the requirements of subsection (C)(3) above. The written notice of denial shall
be sent to the applicants in the same 14-day timeframe from the date of the submittal of a
complete application.

D. Boundary Line Agreements: Boundary line agreements are subject to the requirements
of Utah Code Annotated 10-9a-524, as amended.

      1. Boundary line agreements that are not subject to review of the city shall not be
considered as having land use approval.

         2. In accordance with Utah Code Annotated subsections 10-9a-523(5), the city may
withhold approval of any land use application submitted for property that is the subject of
a recorded boundary line agreement or other document used to adjust a mutual boundary
line if the city determines that the lots or parcels, as adjusted by the boundary line
agreement or other document used to adjust the mutual boundary line, are not in
compliance with the city's land use regulations in effect on the day on which the boundary
line agreement or other document used to adjust the mutual boundary line is recorded.

             a. Land Use applications where approval has been withheld under this
       subsection may proceed upon the subsequent recordation of a boundary line
agreement, including an amended subdivision plat when applicable, that brings the
lots or parcels into compliance with city code.

        b. Land use applications will still be subject to otherwise applicable
expiration dates if review and approval of necessary boundary line agreement(s) is
not diligently pursued by the applicant.
