MINUTES OF THE DRAPER CITY COUNCIL MEETING HELD ON TUESDAY,
DECEMBER 3, 2024, IN THE DRAPER CITY COUNCIL CHAMBERS, 1020 EAST
PIONEER ROAD, DRAPER, UTAH

PRESENT:       Mayor Troy K. Walker, and Councilmembers Mike Green, Bryn Heather
               Johnson, Tasha Lowery, Fred Lowry, and Marsha Vawdrey
EXCUSED:
STAFF:         Mike Barker, City Manager; Kellie Challburg, Assistant City Manager;
               Scott Cooley, City Engineer and Public Works Director; Todd Draper,
               Planning Manager; Spencer DuShane, Assistant City Attorney; Rich
               Ferguson, Chief of Police; Jennifer Jastremsky, Community Development
               Director; Robert Markle, Deputy Public Works Director; Malena Murray,
               Human Resources Director; Rhett Ogden, Parks and Recreation
               Director; Laura Oscarson, City Recorder; Linda Peterson,
               Communications Director; Clint Smith, Fire Chief; Jake Sorensen,
               Network Manager; and John Vuyk, Finance Director
OTHER:         David Dobbins, Dobbins Advisory Group; Rob Wood, HBME, LLC
_____________________________________________________________________________________

Study Session

        Discussion: Glass Recycling
        Finance Director John Vuyk reported that 213 Draper residents currently paid
        for the curbside glass recycling utility option (provided by Momentum
        Recycling). The cost to the City of the glass recycling service increased in July
        2024 from $8.00 to $8.25 per month. Due to property tax rates and water
        rate increases, the City chose not to increase glass recycling fees for
        residents at that time. Mr. Vuyk said other municipalities in the area charged
        $8.50 per container per month for curbside glass recycling. Draper City
        currently provides glass recycling collection dumpsters at two locations, in
        addition to the curbside collection option. Mr. Vuyk presented four options
        for Council consideration:

           •    Continue current service and participant rate, with approximately $50
                per month plus cost of staff time subsidized by the City;
           •    Continue current service with a participant rate increase ($9.00 per
                month justifiable with the cost of staff time);
           •    Ask Momentum Recycling if they would be willing to bill participants
                directly by credit card, removing Draper City from the equation;
                                                                               1|Page
        Draper City Council DRAFT Meeting Minutes – December 3, 2024
   •   Eliminate curbside glass recycling as an option and perhaps add one
       or more additional collection dumpsters in the City.

A majority of the Council indicated support for approaching Momentum
Recycling about charging participants directly, and if Momentum did not
respond favorably, support for increasing the participation rate to cover all
City costs ($9.00 per month). The Council discussed suggesting that
Momentum Recycling increase resident awareness of the curbside glass
recycling option.

Update: Major Roads Capital Improvement Projects
Deputy Public Works Director Robert Markle provided an update on Major
Roads Capital Improvement Projects and answered questions from the
Council.

Discussion: Status of Public Works building
Mr. Markle explained the Public Works building shop and yard were too
small, and spoke of difficulties with salt storage, vehicle storage, and
equipment storage, resulting in safety hazards. David Dobbins, a consultant
with Dobbins Advisory Group, said ten acres were needed to provide a
proper long-term solution for Public Works. Mr. Dobbins spoke of options
that had been considered and said space at the current Galena Hills Park was
a possibility, with ball fields and the planned fire station potentially moved
to The Point.

A representative of General RV Center and Camping World in Draper
answered questions from the Council regarding the property sold to General
RV Center by the City, a portion of which was still used by the City. He spoke
of estimated increased sales and sales tax revenue if General RV Center
expanded into the space currently used by Draper City.

A majority of the Council indicated support for pursuing the Galena Hills Park
option.

Council/Manager Reports
   • City Manager Mike Barker asked if the Council would be willing to
     convene later in December to consider approving Local Consent for a
     New Year’s Eve event planned at The Ballard in Draper. He said the
     applicant approached him too late to have the request for Local

                                                                    2|Page
              Consent on that evening’s agenda. A majority of the Council indicated
              support for scheduling a special meeting to consider the Local
              Consent request.
          •   The Council and staff discussed plans for Draper Days in 2025.

Business Session

1.     Call to Order by Mayor Troy K. Walker

2.     Pledge of Allegiance led by Assistant City Manager Kellie Challburg

3.     Recognition: Corner Canyon Mountain Bike Team
       Mayor Walker recognized the 220 students of the Corner Canyon Mountain
       Bike Team for being the highest-scoring team at the recent State
       Championship. The Council offered congratulations.

4.     Recognition: Corner Canyon Golf Team
       The Golf Team was unable to attend, and recognition was postponed.

5.     Presentation: Police Department 2024 Holiday Card Winners
       Police Chief Rich Ferguson recognized the winners of the 2024 Holiday Card
       Contest. The Council congratulated winners and took the opportunity for
       photographs.

6.     Oath of Office - Fire Department
       City Recorder Laura Oscarson administered the Oath of Office to Firefighters
       Cael Caldwell and Bailey Ziehl, and Paramedics Tyler Cox and Tim Ryan.

7.     Oath of Office - Police Department
       City Recorder Laura Oscarson administered the Oath of Office to Master
       Officers Nate Banry, Gina Haws, Rulon Green, Adam Neff, Cory Smith, and
       Hobie Young.

8.     Public Comments
       Talbot Lloyd, a Draper resident, expressed concern about the feral cat
       population in Draper.

       Jennifer Palmer, a Draper resident, said concerned citizens brought the feral
       cat situation to the Council’s attention eight years ago, and had requested

                                                                           3|Page
      multiple times in the eight years for volunteer individuals to be able to Trap,
      Neuter, Vaccinate, and Release (TNVR) community cats at no cost to the City.
      She said the issue had continued to be put on the backburner, and expressed
      the opinion that it was time for action. Ms. Palmer asked that volunteers be
      allowed to trap, neuter, vaccinate, and release community cats within Draper
      City limits. She said approximately 2,000 feral cats were roaming Draper, and
      asked the Council to place the issue on a future agenda for a vote.

      Carrie Hanson, a Draper resident, said the feral cat problem existed, and she
      was trying to help take care of the problem at her own expense. She asked if
      the issue could be placed on a ballot, and emphasized that concerned
      citizens were not asking the City and taxpayers to take on the cost.

      Matt Erdson, a Draper resident, said he was a bike rider in Draper. Mr. Erdson
      spoke of air quality and suggested the City share a message with the
      community encouraging individuals to walk or ride a bike instead of driving
      a car.

9.    Consent Items
9.a   November 19, 2024, City Council Meeting Minutes
9.b   Resolution #24-63 establishing the regular meeting schedule for the
      City Council and the Planning Commission for the year 2025
9.c   Resolution #24-64 approving the City Council Assignment List for 2025
9.d   Resolution #24-65 electing Tasha Lowery to serve as the Mayor
      Tempore for the year 2025
9.e   Resolution #24-68 appointing Lucy Williams to the Draper City
      Community Engagement Committee

      Councilmember Green moved to approve                  the   Consent    Items.
      Councilmember Johnson seconded the motion.

      A roll call vote was taken. The motion passed unanimously.
                                      Yes No Absent
      Councilmember Green              X
      Councilmember Johnson            X
      Councilmember T. Lowery          X
      Councilmember F. Lowry           X
      Councilmember Vawdrey            X



                                                                            4|Page
10.    Items for Council Consideration
10.a   Action Item: Resolution #24-57 accepting the City of Draper Audit and
       Annual Comprehensive Financial Report (ACFR) for Fiscal Year ending
       June 30, 2024
       Rob Wood, an auditor with HBME, said the Draper ACFR for FY2024 was
       issued with a clean opinion, and reviewed the FY2024 ACFR with the Council.

       Councilmember F. Lowry moved to approve Resolution #24-57.
       Councilmember Vawdrey seconded the motion.

       A roll call vote was taken. The motion passed unanimously.
                                       Yes No Absent
       Councilmember Green              X
       Councilmember Johnson            X
       Councilmember T. Lowery          X
       Councilmember F. Lowry           X
       Councilmember Vawdrey            X

10.b   Action Item: Ordinance #1627 amending Title 7 of the Draper City
       Municipal Code regarding the Draper City Cemetery
       Assistant City Attorney Spencer DuShane presented proposed amendments
       to Title 7 of the Draper City Code regarding the Draper City Cemetery.

       Councilmember Johnson moved to approve                Ordinance     #1627.
       Councilmember T. Lowery seconded the motion.

       A roll call vote was taken. The motion passed unanimously.
                                       Yes No Absent
       Councilmember Green              X
       Councilmember Johnson            X
       Councilmember T. Lowery          X
       Councilmember F. Lowry           X
       Councilmember Vawdrey            X

10.c   Action Item: Resolution #24-70 approving a Memorandum of
       Understanding between Draper City and The Point of the Mountain
       State Land Use Authority
       David Dobbins with Dobbins Advisory Group explained the proposed
       Memorandum of Understanding would clarify multiple issues between

                                                                         5|Page
       Draper City and The Point of the Mountain State Land Use Authority related
       to continued work on The Point project.

       Councilmember Vawdrey moved to approve Resolution #24-70.
       Councilmember Johnson seconded the motion.

       A roll call vote was taken. The motion passed unanimously.
                                      Yes No Absent
       Councilmember Green             X
       Councilmember Johnson           X
       Councilmember T. Lowery         X
       Councilmember F. Lowry          X
       Councilmember Vawdrey           X

10.d   Public Hearing: Ordinance #1628 amending the Official Zoning Map of
       Draper City for approximately 0.52 acres from the RA1 (Residential
       Agricultural, 40,000 ft² min. lot size) to CC (Community Commercial)
       Zone for property located at 12240 S. 700 E, known as The Break Zoning
       Map Amendment
       Planner Nick Whittaker explained the request to rezone approximately 0.52
       acres from RA1 to CC Zone. The current designation on the Future Land Use
       Map was Neighborhood Commercial, which Mr. Whittaker said staff felt was
       a correlating designation. Mr. Whittaker said the Planning Commission
       reviewed the request and forwarded a positive recommendation with a
       unanimous vote.

       Gary Knapp, representing the applicant, said the subject property would
       primarily be used for parking for a restaurant on the adjacent property.

       Mayor Walker opened a public hearing, and closed the public hearing
       seeing no one come forward.

       Councilmember Green moved to approve                 Ordinance     #1628.
       Councilmember Johnson seconded the motion.

       A roll call vote was taken. The motion passed unanimously.
                                       Yes No Absent
       Councilmember Green              X
       Councilmember Johnson            X

                                                                        6|Page
        Councilmember T. Lowery           X
        Councilmember F. Lowry            X
        Councilmember Vawdrey             X

10.e   Public Hearing: Ordinance #1629 amending compensation for statutory
       officers for Fiscal Year 2024/2025
       Finance Director John Vuyk spoke of a recent salary study, presented proposed
       amendments to compensation for statutory officers for FY2025, and answered
       questions from the Council.

       Mayor Walker opened a public hearing, and closed the public hearing
       seeing no one come forward.

       Councilmember Green moved to approve Ordinance #1629.
       Councilmember Johnson seconded the motion.

       A roll call vote was taken. The motion passed unanimously.
                                        Yes No Absent
        Councilmember Green              X
        Councilmember Johnson            X
        Councilmember T. Lowery          X
        Councilmember F. Lowry           X
        Councilmember Vawdrey            X

10.f   Public Hearing: Resolution #24-67 amending Executive Officer
       Compensation for Fiscal Year 2024-2025
       Mr. Vuyk presented proposed amendments to Executive Officer
       Compensation for FY2025.

       Mayor Walker opened a public hearing, and closed the public hearing
       seeing no one come forward.

       Councilmember Green moved to approve Resolution #24-67.
       Councilmember Vawdrey seconded the motion.

       A roll call vote was taken. The motion passed unanimously.
                                       Yes No Absent
        Councilmember Green             X
        Councilmember Johnson           X

                                                                           7|Page
      Councilmember T. Lowery      X
      Councilmember F. Lowry       X
      Councilmember Vawdrey        X

11.   Adjournment
      Councilmember Green moved to adjourn the meeting. The motion
      passed by unanimous voice vote (5-0).

      The meeting adjourned at 8:07 pm.




                                                           8|Page
