                                       Development Review Committee
                                           1020 East Pioneer Road
                                              Draper, UT 84020
                                             February 13, 2025

To:               Draper City Planning Commission
                  Business Date: February 27, 2025

From:             Development Review Committee

Prepared By: Todd Taylor, Planner III
             Planning Division
             Community Development Department
             801-576-6510, todd.taylor@draperutah.gov

Re:       Draper Town Center Station Area Plan – General Plan Amendment Request
          Application No.: 2025-0033-TA
          Applicant:        Draper City
          Project Location: City Wide
          Request:          Request for adoption of the Draper Town Center Station Area Plan
                            as part of the General Plan.



BACKGROUND AND SUMMARY
This application is a request for adoption of the Draper Town Center Station Area Plan (TC-
SAP) as an additional component of the Draper City General Plan.

In 2022, House Bill (HB) 462 added new text to the general plan section of the Utah State
Code (USC) regarding station area plans. The new section, USC Section 10-9a-403.1, requires
municipalities to develop and adopt station area plans for areas surrounding exisitng fixed
guideway public transit stations on or before December 31, 2025. Station area plan
requirements include the following:

      •   Plan for a half-mile radius around station platform
      •   Promotion of the following objectives:
             o An increase in the availability and affordability of housing;
             o Sustainable environmental conditions;
             o Enhanced access to opportunities; and
             o Increased transportation choices and connections.




Draper Town Center Station Area Plan                                  App. No: 2025-0033-TA
General Plan Amendment Request                       1
    •    A Station Area Vision that describes opportunities and constraints for the
         development of land, and objectives for future transportation systems, land uses,
         public and open spaces, and development standards.
    •    A Station Area Map
    •    An Implementation Plan (Five-Year)
    •    Engagement efforts with relevant stakeholders and the public.

Draper City is required to complete station area plans for all four transit stations which have
a half-mile radius wholly or partially inside the City boundaries. These include the Draper
Town Center, Kimballs Lane, and Crescent View (located in Sandy) TRAX stations and the
Draper FrontRunner station.

On July 20, 2022, with a Transportation and Land Use Connection grant from Wasatch Front
Regional Council (WFRC), the City contracted with Township + Range Community Planning
(consultant) to develop the TC-SAP.

This staff report provides general information about the TC-SAP, which is attached as
Exhibit B.

ANALYSIS

Station Area.
In preparing the TC-SAP the consultant and the City studied the land within a half-mile radius
of the Draper Town Center TRAX station platform. At the core of the Station Area are the
three key sites; the City-owned Fitzgerald site, the Utah Transit Authority (UTA) site, and the
Intermountain Farmers Association (IFA) site with their mill, warehouse and store. These
three sites present a major opportunity to re-envision the core of the station area and the
plan gives principal focus to these areas.

Surrounding the core are civic buildings to the southeast and southwest (City Hall, library,
and senior center), industrial buildings to the west, historic Draper to the west beyond the
industrial, commercial to the north and northeast along Draper Parkway, and single family
homes to the east and south. The remainder of the half-mile station area is largely residential
neighborhoods, including the Parkstone neighborhood to the east and the Bainbridge
development to the south, which are envisioned to remain as-is in the future.

Stakeholder and Public Engagement.
The planning process, which took place from August 2022 to February 2025, engaged the
public, stakeholders, and City leaders in order to understand the Station Area, establish
goals, develop strategies, and make decisions. This was accomplished through a series of
three open houses, two online surveys, five stakeholder meetings, and several City Council
workshops. Comment cards from the most recent open house, which was held on February
20, 2025, are attached as Exhibit C.




Draper Town Center Station Area Plan                                 App. No: 2025-0033-TA
General Plan Amendment Request                 1
Through the public engagement process, the project team identified a range of themes
which were refined into a list of ten goals. While some of the goals conflicted with each other,
they helped guide discussions on tradeoffs among competing priorities which are inherent
in the planning process. The goals are:

    1. Heritage: Preserve key aspects of Draper’s history and incorporate into the urban
        design and public space of the station area.
    2. Respect Surrounding Neighborhoods: Integrate new development and
        improvements in a way that respects the existing community.
    3. Town Center Gathering Place: Establish the station area as a gathering place and
        destination for the Draper community.
    4. Complementary Mix: Mix uses in a complementary way and include housing and
        recreation as key uses.
    5. Connectivity and Access: Connect the station area to maximize access to the station,
        link among the key sites, make the station area accessible to the community, and
        overcome topography and barriers.
    6. Balance and Link Modes: Balance and link a foundation of walkability with the other
        key transportation modes of transit, bicycling, and traffic.
    7. Regional Benefits: Increase access to regional opportunity via the Draper Town
        Center Station, increase housing affordability, and realize other regional benefits.
    8. Intensity and Vitality: Create activity and vibrancy by adding well-designed intensity
        of use into the station area.
    9. Core Sites: Focus the plan on the best use and coordination of the key development
        sites owned by UTA, Draper City, and IFA to support the station area, region, and
        community.
    10. Effective Plan: Create an effective plan that is balanced, functional, thoughtful,
        strategic, viable, implementable, and reflects the full range of stakeholder desires.

Preferred Concept.
The TC-SAP Preferred Concept is based on all the feedback received during the public
engagement process, technical evaluation, HB 462 requirements, and relevant station area
planning best practices. The Preferred Concept includes ten Plan Principles and the
Illustrative Concept. The Plan Principles convey the key points of agreement and priorities
for the Station Area and the Illustrative Plan graphically represents the preferred way to
achieve the Plan Principles.

The Plan Principles are:

    1. A walkable, active Main Street on Pioneer Road.
    2. A nexus of trail connections.
    3. Mixed-use town center on City site with destination restaurants and retail,
       community center and some housing, that is engaged with and connected to Draper
       Park and other civic destinations.



Draper Town Center Station Area Plan                                  App. No: 2025-0033-TA
General Plan Amendment Request                 1
    4.  Significant residential density on UTA site in up-to 5-story buildings.
    5.  Flexibility toward IFA with encouragement of future redevelopment.
    6.  Improved TRAX station access.
    7.  Rezoning of some areas around the station to allow and encourage transit-oriented
        development.
    8. Preservation of the scale of Draper’s historic downtown, south and west of the
        transit-oriented area.
    9. Quality transitions to established residential neighborhoods and historic resources.
    10. Connectivity improvements throughout the station area.

The Preferred Concept is estimated to yield approximately 30-40 multifamily units, 20-30
townhomes and duplexes, and 30,000 square feet of commercial space on the City-owned
Fitzgerald site; and 450-500 multifamily units and 22,000 square feet of commercial space
on the UTA site.

Text Amendments.
The TC-SAP will be an adopted part of the Draper City General Plan. Following adoption of
the station area plan, the City will need to work separately to adopt appropriate land use
regulations into the zoning ordinance to implement the station area plan. In order to ensure
the TC-SAP is built in a way that was envisioned during the public engagement process; these
regulations will need to include the following:

    •    Maximum of five-stories on UTA site, IFA site, and industrial sites.
    •    Stepback for stories above three-stories along 12300 South / Draper Parkway.
    •    Transition to four-stories west of 970 East.
    •    Maximum of four-stories on UTA site directly west of Parkstone.
    •    100-foot open space buffer directly west of Parkstone.
    •    Maximum of three-stories on City-owned Fitzgerald site.
    •    Stepback for stories above two-stories on the south side of Pioneer Road.
    •    Ground floor retail uses along 12300 South / Draper Parkway and along Pioneer
         Road east of 970 East.
    •    Wrapped, tuck-under, or underground parking.
    •    On-street parking for internal streets.
    •    Stepdown/Terracing of stories with grade changes.
    •    Maximum of three-stories where adjacent to existing single-family homes on
         commercial redevelopment sites north of Draper Parkway (if owners desire to
         redevelop).
    •    Significant horizontal articulation and breaks between building to reduce the
         appearance of mass.

Additional features the City will require when development of the City-owned Fitzgerald site
occurs include:




Draper Town Center Station Area Plan                               App. No: 2025-0033-TA
General Plan Amendment Request               1
    •    Plaza with community event space.
    •    Mixed-Use (commercial and residential) building.
    •    Community/Performing Arts Center.
    •    For-sale, owner-occupied, residential units with affordable housing requirements.
    •    Interior block shared parking.
    •    Twin-homes adjacent to the Bainbridge Subdivision.

Criteria For Approval.
Amendments to the General Plan fall under DCMC Section 9-2-020(F). That section lists the
following criteria for a General Plan amendment as:

         Plan Amendment: All plan amendments shall be in accordance with Utah Code
         Annotated 10-9a-404, as amended and, unless requested by the city's legislative
         body, shall follow the procedures as outlined in Draper City Municipal Code 9-5-
         060(D).” That section is noted as follows:

         D.       Procedure: Zoning text and map amendments shall be considered and
                  processed as provided in this subsection:
                  1.    A complete application shall be submitted to the office of the zoning
                        administrator in a form established by the administrator along with
                        any fee established by the city’s schedule of fees. The application shall
                        include at least the following information:
                        a.      The name, address and telephone number of the applicant
                                and the applicant’s agent, if any.
                        b.      The name and address of every person or company the
                                applicant represents.
                        c.      The requested amendment and reasons supporting the
                                request.
                        d.      If the proposed amendment requires a change in the zoning
                                map, the application shall include:
                                (1)      An accurate property map showing present and
                                         proposed zoning classifications;
                                (2)      All abutting properties showing present zoning
                                         classifications; and
                                (3)      An accurate legal description and an approximate
                                         common address of the area proposed to be rezoned.
                        e.      If the proposed amendment requires a change in the text of
                                this title, the application shall include chapter and section
                                references and a draft of the proposed text.
                  2.    After the application is determined to be complete, the zoning
                        administrator shall prepare a staff report evaluating the application.
                  3.    The planning commission shall schedule and hold a public hearing on
                        the application as provided in sections 9-5-040 and 9-5-045 of this



Draper Town Center Station Area Plan                                    App. No: 2025-0033-TA
General Plan Amendment Request                   1
                           chapter. Following the public meeting, the planning commission shall
                           recommend approval, approval with modifications, or denial of the
                           proposed amendment and shall submit its recommendation to the
                           city council for review and decision.
                  4.       The city council shall schedule and hold a public hearing on the
                           application as provided in sections 9-5-040 and 9-5-045 of this
                           chapter. Following the public hearing, the city council may approve,
                           approve with modifications, or deny the proposed amendment.

Adoption of a station area plan also falls under USC Section 10-9a-403.1(8). That section
lists the following requirements for a station area plan as:

         (8)      A station area plan shall include the following components:
                  (a)     a station area vision that:
                          (i)     is consistent with Subsection (7); and
                          (ii)    describes the following:
                                  (A)    opportunities for the development of land within the
                                         station area under existing conditions;
                                  (B)    constraints on the development of land within the
                                         station area under existing conditions;
                                  (C)    the municipality's objectives for the transportation
                                         system within the station area and the future
                                         transportation system that meets those objectives;
                                  (D)    the municipality's objectives for land uses within the
                                         station area and the future land uses that meet those
                                         objectives;
                                  (E)    the municipality's objectives for public and open spaces
                                         within the station area and the future public and open
                                         spaces that meet those objectives; and
                                  (F)    the municipality's objectives for the development of
                                         land within the station area and the future development
                                         standards that meet those objectives;
                  (b)     a map that depicts:
                          (i)     the station area;
                          (ii)    the area within the station area to which the station area plan
                                  applies, provided that the station area plan may apply to areas
                                  outside the station area, and the station area plan is not
                                  required to apply to the entire station area; and
                          (iii)   the area where each action is needed to implement the station
                                  area plan;
                  (c)     an implementation plan that identifies and describes each action
                          needed within the next five years to implement the station area plan,
                          and the party responsible for taking each action, including any actions



Draper Town Center Station Area Plan                                    App. No: 2025-0033-TA
General Plan Amendment Request                    1
                           to:
                           (i)     modify land use regulations;
                           (ii)    make infrastructure improvements;
                           (iii)   modify deeds or other relevant legal documents;
                           (iv)    secure funding or develop funding strategies;
                           (v)     establish design standards for development within the station
                                   area; or
                           (vi)    provide environmental remediation;
                  (d)      a statement that explains how the station area plan promotes the
                           objectives described in Subsection (7)(a); and
                  (e)      as an alternative or supplement to the requirements of Subsection (7)
                           or this Subsection (8), and for purposes of Subsection (2)(b)(ii), a
                           statement that describes any conditions that would make the
                           following impracticable:
                           (i)     promoting the objectives described in Subsection (7)(a); or
                           (ii)    satisfying the requirements of this Subsection (8).


REVIEWS

Planning Division Review. The Draper City Planning Division has completed their review of
the station area plan. Comments from this division, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Engineering and Public Works Divisions Review. The Draper City Engineering and Public
Works Divisions have completed their reviews of the station area plan. Comments from
these divisions, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Noticing. Notice has been properly issued in the manner outlined in the City and State
Codes.



STAFF RECOMMENDATION

Staff recommends that the Planning Commission review the request, receive public
comment, and make a recommendation to the City Council regarding approval, approval
with modifications, or denial of the General Plan Amendment based on the findings and
criteria for adoption, or rejection, as listed within the staff report.



MODEL MOTIONS

Sample Motion for a Positive Recommendation – I move that we forward a positive
recommendation to the City Council for approval of the Draper Town Center Station Area



Draper Town Center Station Area Plan                                    App. No: 2025-0033-TA
General Plan Amendment Request                    1
Plan General Plan Amendment, as requested by Draper City, Application No. 2025-0033-TA,
based on the following findings for approval and the criteria for adoption as listed in the Staff
Report dated February 13, 2025.

Findings for approval:

    1. A Public Hearing before the Planning Commission was held in accordance with Utah
       State Code Section 10-9a-404.
    2. The General Plan Amendment is consistent with the requirements of Utah State
       Code and is appropriate.

Sample Motion for a Positive Recommendation with Modifications – I move that we forward
a positive recommendation to the City Council for approval of the Draper Town Center
Station Area Plan General Plan Amendment, as requested by Draper City, Application No.
2025-0033-TA, based on the findings for approval and the criteria for adoption as listed in
the Staff Report dated February 13, 2025, inclusive of the following additional recommended
modifications or findings:

    1. (List any recommended modifications…)
    2. (List any additional findings for approval…)

Sample Motion for a Negative Recommendation – I move that we forward a negative
recommendation to the City Council for denial of the Draper Town Center Station Area Plan
General Plan Amendment, as requested by Draper City, Application No. 2025-0033-TA, based
on the following finding for denial and the criteria for rejection as listed in the Staff Report
dated February 13, 2025.

Finding for denial:

    1. The General Plan Amendment is not consistent with the requirements of Utah State
       Code and is not appropriate.




Draper Town Center Station Area Plan                                  App. No: 2025-0033-TA
General Plan Amendment Request                 1
                                     EXHIBIT A
                                DEPARTMENT REVIEWS

REVIEWS ARE NOT MEANT TO BE AN ALL INCLUSIVE LIST OF POSSIBLE COMMENTS OR
CONDITIONS.



Planning Division Review.

   1. No additional comments received.

Engineering and Public Works Divisions Review.

   1. No additional comments received.
             EXHIBIT B
DRAPER TOWN CENTER STATION AREA PLAN
DRAPER TOWN CENTER
Station Area Plan




                     DRAFT February 2025
                                            This page is intentionally left blank.




ii   Draper Town Center Station Area Plan
DRAPER TOWN CENTER
Station Area Plan                                                                                Larry Crandall, Parkstone neighborhood
                                                                                                 Jamie Pogue, Draper Trails Committee
Table of contents
                                                                                                 Paul Glauser, Draper resident
Executive Summary .................................................................. 1
                                                                                                 Reed Gibby, Draper resident
Introduction ............................................................................... 7
                                                                                                 Project Team
Background ................................................................................ 8
Plan Process ............................................................................. 12    Kellie Challburg, Draper Assistant City Manager

Plan Overview ................................................... ...................... 26      Jennifer Jastremsky, Draper City Community Development

Plan Elements .......................................................................... 31      Todd Taylor, Draper City Community Development

Implementation Plan ............................................................ 54              Bret Millburn, Former Assistant Draper City Manager

Acknowledgments                                                                                  Brien Maxfield, Draper City Engineering
                                                                                                 Fred Aegerter, Former Draper City Community Development Director
Community Stakeholder Committee
                                                                                                 Christy Dahlberg, Wasatch Front Regional Council
Fred Lowry, Draper City Council
                                                                                                 Paul Drake, Utah Transit Authority
Mike Green, Draper City Council
                                                                                                 Jordan Swain, Utah Transit Authority
Marsha Vawdrey, Draper City Council
                                                                                                 Kayla Kinkead, Utah Transit Authority
Tasha Lowery, Draper City Council
                                                                                                 Tim Sullivan, Township + Range
Bryn Heather Johnson, Draper City Council
                                                                                                 Sophie Bellina, Township + Range
Andrew Adams, Draper City Planning Commission
                                                                                                 Zeke Peters, Township + Range
Rhett Ogden, Draper City Parks and Recreation
                                                                                                 Brian Vanneman, Leland Consulting Group
Bryan Coulter, IFA
                                                                                                 Chris Zahas, Leland Consulting Group
Heather Beck, K9 Lifeline
                                                                                                 Ellen Bini, Leland Consulting Group
Ron Raddon, Raddon Development
                                                                                                 Kai Tohinaka, Parametrix
Stan Parrish, Raddon Development
                                                                                                 Ian Kilpatrick, Parametrix
Carlton Christensen, UTA Board of Trustees
                                                                                                 Brent Bowen, Bowen Studios




                                                                                                                                    Draper Town Center Station Area Plan   iii
                                            This page is intentionally left blank.




iv   Draper Town Center Station Area Plan
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
The Draper Town Center Station Area Plan guides the future of the area
surrounding the Draper Town Center TRAX Station. The Plan is driven by and
fulfills the requirements of Utah House Bill 462. It establishes a vision and
5-year development plan for the half-mile radius in accordance with the law,
and addresses the broad regional and state goals that H.B. 462 establishes.
This summary provides an overview of the Plan's collaborative process; the
Plan Principles; the Illustrative Concept; and the Implementation Plan.

Collaborative Process
The Draper Town Center Station Area Plan's process of arriving at a preferred
vision and concept was critical to its success. The process, which took place
from August 2022 to February 2025, carefully brought a core group of
stakeholders and the public along to establish goals, understand the Station
Area, develop strategies, and make decisions through a series of meetings,
workshops, and periods of research and plan-making. The process was
inclusive of a range of stakeholders from the Draper community and the
Wasatch Front region, but also kept the primary City leadership connected to
the process, emerging with a Station Area Plan with both broad consensus
and effective buy-in. The highlights of the process are:
•   Goals: The project team first worked with the Stakeholder Committee to
    establish a set of Station Area Goals that would guide the process. These
    goals focused on desires for amenities and infrastructure, regional needs,
    and community concerns.
•   Technical analysis: The project team analyzed existing land uses, urban
    design and community character, transportation, and the market.
•   Stakeholder Committee: The Stakeholder Committee met five times
    from October 2022 to February 2025, each time working collaboratively to
    advance the plan forward. Meetings included a station area walking tour,
    visioning session, concept building exercise, a discussion on choosing a
    preferred alternative, and a wrap-up meeting summarizing the Draft Plan.
•   Concept alternatives: The team proposed a series of alternative
    concepts for the station area, each with an interconnected scenario
    of strategies seeking to achieve the Station Area Goals. Out of these
    alternatives came a Preferred Concept on which the plan was built.
•   Public engagement: The project included a strong public engagement
    process, with two core phases that each included an open house and
    online survey that each received about 500 responses.
•   Preferred Concept: A Preferred Concept emerged from the process. This
                                                                                 The Station Area Plan's process included a Stakeholder Committee walking tour (top); two
    Concept was developed into the plan elements: the Illustrative Concept;
                                                                                 community open houses (middle images); and a Stakeholder Committee workshop (bottom).
    the Plan Principles; and the Implementation Plan.
                                                                                                                      Draper Town Center Station Area Plan            1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  DRAPER
    INDUSTRIAL REDEVELOPMENT
    •1    Mix of retail, oﬃce, middle housing,             •7                                                       Up-to-5-story multifamily buildings in
                                                                                                                    most of site
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                UTA SITE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       •13
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             PIONEER ROAD “MAIN STREET”
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Transformation of Pioneer
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Road to a “Main Street” with
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  TOWN CENTER
          and stacked condos up to 5 stories
    •2    Consider stepdowns along Pioneer
          Road
                                                           •8

                                                           •9
                                                                                                                    Mixed use with retail along 12300 South;
                                                                                                                    stepdown to 3 stories
                                                                                                                    Residential building step-down transition                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          •14
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              wide sidewalks, streetscape,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              frequent crossings
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              On-street multi-use path
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Station Area Plan
    •3    West side of 970 East up to 4 stories.
    •4    Plan for exibility with IFA: allow to
                                                           •
                                                           10
                                                                                                                    to east with open space buﬀer
                                                                                                                    Parking: Limited surface stalls and
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       •15    Encouragement of walkable
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              inll development on Pioneer
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Illustrative Concept
          function as-is but zone to encourage
          redevelopment                                                                                             shared structure spaces for UTA riders                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        LAND USES
                                                           11
                                                           •                                                        Potential street link to shopping center                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  COMMERCIAL CENTER                        Multifamily housing
    •5    Consider potential long-term new
                                                           •                                                        Central open space built around canal                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     REDEVELOPMENT                            (Apartments/Condos)
          street links in redevelopment,                   12
                                                                                                                    trail                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              16     3-story building heights; Missing
          including across TRAX                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Retail/Restaurant
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              middle housing; but primarily
    •6    Preserve IFA Mill as adaptive reuse
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              commercial; Encourage walkable
          opportunity                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Civic/Community Center




                                                                          1000
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        17
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              commercial pad uses
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       16                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Park/Open Space



                                                                               E.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               12300 S.                                                                                                       POTENTIAL FUTURE T.O.C.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       •17    Other shopping centers along             Parking
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              12300 South may be considered
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        8                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     16                                                  STATION AREA SUBAREAS
                                                 27                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           in future for incorporation into
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      11
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              transit-oriented area.                    Concept for core site
                  12300 S.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         12                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 28
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Industrial redevelopment mixed use
                                                                                                                                    1                                                                                                                                                                                                                       7                                                                                      9                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            STATION IMPROVEMENTS
                                             3                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     10                                                                                                                                                 30
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        PARKSTONE                                                                       •26    New south side platform,                 Commercial center redevelopment
                                                                                 1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             expanded plaza, and access on            mixed use
                                  900 E.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          5                                                                                         IFA 6
                             18                                                                                                                                                            4                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   west side of platform
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Mill TRAX 26                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Historic Town Center area
                                                                2                                                                                                                                                                                              13                                                                                                       14
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              station                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    PIONEER RD.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        preservation and inll
                     PIONEER RD.                                                                                               22                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              22     25
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        20
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   21                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Area for potential future consideration
                                           19        15    City                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      TRAIL NETWORK
                                                           Hall                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                23                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       of incorporation into TOC area
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             23                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         •27    Rail trail
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    24
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        •28    Canal trail
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    29
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           DRAPER CITY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ENTRY No. 10302940                                        (14.31')                                                                                                                                   N89°59'55"E 562.41'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  PUBLIC REALM IMPROVEMENTS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          BK:9549 PG:5295                                                                30.00' 30.00'                                              90.00'                            84.00'                        89.85'                                              88.01'                                                                 150.55'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        •29    Trail connecting Draper Park
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     53.45'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             122
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             S0°06'52"W 104.04'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      12487 S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               N0°06'52"E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             1060 EAST
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        S0°06'52"W 111.88'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    S0°02'15"W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   69.89'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    118                            119                            120                                               121
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              S0°06'52"W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          S2°33'23"W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      127.08'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.36 acres
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  S0°02'15"W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 S0°02'15"W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                111.88'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            112.79'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    126.96'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           15682 sqft
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   127.02'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          139.58'                                                                               0.26 acres                       0.24 acres                     0.26 acres                                         0.24 acres
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               N85°02'54"E                                                                                                      11386 sqft                       10667 sqft                     11415 sqft                                         10406 sqft
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      '                                                  28-29-478-011
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             34.15'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   .55 "W                                             SALT LAKE COUNTY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                CV                                                                                                                                                                     110
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        N25




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 C10                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            138 '47                                                ENTRY No. 8429077
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 1097 E                                                    3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     117                                                                                       1069 E             1073 E                                         1083 E                                                             C4                                C5 E                                         °06
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        BK:8688 PG:2960
                                            T.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           °08




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  12496 S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     145.72'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         60.00                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  S53




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               and City Hall
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   75.15'           84.00'                                          89.85'                                   36.07' C3                                                                                                                                                                                                                             NOTES:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       C2




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   0.27 acres                                       '                                                                                                                                                                                                                     C1                                                                                         SURVEY No. S02-07-0308
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      123
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              '02




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Open space
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   11691 sqft                                                                                 N89°57'45"W 285.07'                                                                                                                                                                    7                                                                                                                                                              1. #5 X 24" REBAR & CAP (FOCUS E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            C13




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   12500 SOUTH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                60.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               "W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        SET IN TOP BACK OF CURB AT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   00'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    1060 E                                                      S89°57'45"E 299.92'                                                                                                                              0.25 acres
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   12501 S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        C1




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      C6




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    4"E                                                                             12500 S                                                                                                         1100 E                                                                                       11088 sqft                                                                                                                             AT FRONT LOT CORNERS.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       C2




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                60.00
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    124




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             °51'1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            1




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   (PUBLIC- 60' WIDE)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               2. PARCEL A IS HEREBY DEDICAT




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        31
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        N65                            C1                                                                                                                                                                          12500 S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     7'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            60.
                                           FORT S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    S89°57'45"E 294.16'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      .53




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     '




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             4
                                                                                         JEFFERY J. & KERI L.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                94.3          106                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   00'                                                                                                                                                             3. LOTS 134 - 144 SHALL HAVE NO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  C20




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      2E                                                              58.23'                     88.00'            76.00'                                                 71.93'             C2                                                                                106.48'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         '




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  C15                                                                                                                                             3                                                                                                                                                                                                                 4. LOT 101 AND 102 SHALL HAVE N
                                                                                             28-29-377-023




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   1084 E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       116
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                1072 E                                                                 1094 E                                                                                                S89°59'55"W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               C16
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           C7
                                                                                               BRYANT




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    5. BASEMENT ELEVATION SHAL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              N2
                                                                                                 LOT 1




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             1068 E                                                                                                                     CV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   0.31 acres
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            115                                 114                           113                                            112                                                                                      C8
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                124                                                                                                                                     MEASURED GROUNDWATER E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               8°3




                                                                    9




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        •30    Trail linking Canal Trail with
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 N0°02'15"E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         N4°42'46"E




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   13643 sqft
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               N0°02'15"E




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               S0°02'15"W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        PROJECT NO. 00145-029 DATE M
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  1'0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      88.00'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  120.00'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               0.23 acres
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          12517 S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             115.95'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0.26 acres                           0.24 acres                   0.21 acres                                      0.24 acres
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           70.20'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                120.00'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      12518 S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 120.00'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               10082 sqft                                                                                                                           6. LOTS 101, AND 122-133 HAVE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    2"W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            10387 sqft
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     105.01'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          N0°00'05"W 210.00'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          11142 sqft                           10560 sqft                   9120 sqft
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        REAR YARD RETENTION SYSTE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                S0°35'07"E 595.25'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              N89°59'55"E                                                                                                                               OWNER. LOTS 101 REQUIRE 650
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          127




                                                                                                                                               PHASE 2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Plaza
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                115.70'                                                                                                                                 270 SQUARE FEET OF RETENTIO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            .65




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             65.46'                                                       98.54'                                88.00'                           76.00'                                    S89°57'45"E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    7. THERE ARE PRIVATE DRAINAG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                '




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      N89°57'45"W 328.00'                                                                                     87.00'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 125                                                                                                                                    YARD DRAINAGE EASEMENTS
                                                                                          TROY BLUNDELL &
                                                                                          SANDRA J. CULVER




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   12537 S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        OWNED AND MAINTAINED BY T
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          96.08'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      96.09'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               0.26 acres
                                                                                             28-29-377-024




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Town Center and open space
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             111
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  255.03'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               11164 sqft                                                   12.0'                                                                   8. SHALLOW SEWER DEPTHS! CO
                                                                                                 LOT 2




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           12542 S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        PRIVATE REAR                                                                    FOUNDATION ELEVATION TO P
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          104.99'



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   S0°00'05"E 555.03'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0.24 acres                                                                                                                                                 YARD RETENTION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                116.68'                                                                                                                                 WITH A BASEMENT MAY NOT H
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 120.00'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            10392 sqft                                                                                                                                                    EASEMENT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    N0°00'05"W 495.21'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            N0°00'05"W 300.00'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              S89°59'55"W                                                                                                                           9. NOTICE TO PROPERTY OWNER
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             CV
                                                                         KIMBERLY K. BELL




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        AND MAINTAIN STREET TREES
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 126



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    F U T UR E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      1093 E                                                                                                                                                                 28-29-452-028




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Streetscape
                                                                           MICHAEL D. &




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        THE APPROVED STREET TREE
                                                                            28-29-377-037




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       12551 S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         84.00'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                C24                                                                                                                                                      SALT LAKE COUNTY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       84.00'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                0.23 acres
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ENTRY No. 10853079                                                            DEVELOPMENT OFFICE OF DRA
                                                                                LOT 3




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  S89°57'45"E 71.99'                                                                                            9837 sqft
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           BK:9786 PG:1214                                                          10. TEMPORARY TURN AROUND
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              S89°57'45"E 117.00'                                                                                                                                      SURVEY No. S2009-12-0550




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               buﬀer for Parkstone area
                                                                                                                                     EASEMENT DETAIL                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            117.54'                                                                                                                                 RECORDING OF PHASE 2 AND C
                                                                                                                                        SEE PAGE 2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     12555 SOUTH                                                                                            S89°59'55"W                                                                                                                           11. FLOODPLAIN IS OUTSIDE OF SU
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   S89°57'45"E 72.01'
                                                                     WATER AND P.I.                                                                                                               (C40)                                 TEMPORARY TURNAROUND                                                                                                                                                                                                                    C19
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 127
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          12563 S




                                                                    MENT IN FAVOR OF                                                                                                                                                           EASEMENT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           78.00'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       78.00'




                                                                    RRIGATION COMPANY                                                                                                                                                     TO BE VACATED WITH                                                                                                                                                                    1100 E                                     1092 E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                0.21 acres
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               12555 S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  BAINBRIDGE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          CV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               (PUBLIC- 60' WIDE)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      RECORDING OF BAINBRIDGE PH 2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              9199 sqft
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             110
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  1100 EAST




                                                                                                                                                                                 (25.00')                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       118.33'
                                                                    EAST




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Trail
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        105.01'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 120.00'




                                                                                                                                                 (C42)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0.24 acres
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           N0°00'05"W 210.00'




                                                                    98.95'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  10392 sqft
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              S89°59'55"W                                                 N0°35'07"W
                                                                                                                          N89°59'55"E 216.23'                                                                           (C41)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           S0°00'05"E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  12572 S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 1.75'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 128
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       50.33'




                                                                                                                                   158.38'                                      30.00' 30.00'                                              39.03'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    12581 S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              N89°51'01"E 128.27'                                                                             N89°59'55"E 227.14'
                                                                                                                                                                                                              42.68'
                                                                                                                                                                                                 L3




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                0.25 acres
                                                                                                                                   102
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          92.00'
                                                                                                                                                                      L4




                                                                                               12600  S.                                                                                                                                                                                                          S89°57'45"E 503.57'                                                                                                                                             87.00'                                                                                        10920 sqft                                              92.00'                             36.27'             47.75'                        88.00'                                            91.39'
                                                                                                                                                                             30.00'
                                                                                                1.00'
                                                                                                                         C35




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  87.57'                       84.00'                             76.00'                                                            92.00'                     76.00'                         88.00'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   41.67'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            N89°57'45"W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       S0°02'09"W 132.02'




                                                                                                                                  0.29 acres                                                           30.00'
                                                                                                                                                      12584 S




                                                                                                        C39
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   300.00'




                                                                                                                                  12435 sqft                                                                                  3.65'
                                                                                                                                                                      C36
                                                                                                                    8




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  SUBDIVISION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                118.82'
                                                                                                                                                                                                       C32
                                                                                                                   C3




                                                                                                                                                                                  30.00'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                N0°02'15"E




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       130                                      131                                        132
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  S0°02'15"W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   S0°02'15"W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 N0°02'15"E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   C31




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          N0°02'15"E




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              S89°59'55"W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          S0°02'15"W




                                                                                                                                             11.65'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   103                           104                             105                                                        106                              107                            108                                              109
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 120.00'
                                                                    N4°30'00"E 139.35'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    132.32'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 S0°02'15"W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            104.99'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     134.28'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              N0°02'15"E




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 S0°02'15"W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          133
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  120.00'




                                                                                                                                                                                                       30.00'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           120.00'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               N0°02'15"E




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            134.22'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          12592 S




                                                                                                        C37                         N89°59'55"E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   120.00'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               120.00'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   134.28'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 129                                                                                           0.26 acres                              0.27 acres
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     157.60'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.28 acres
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         12587 S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                120.00'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             74.93'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                               0.26 acres                      0.23 acres                     0.21 acres                                                  0.25 acres                        0.21 acres                  0.24 acres                                          0.24 acres
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          12597 S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       90.00'




                                                                                                    S39°31'39"E                        116.52'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       12160 sqft                                11207 sqft                              11814 sqft                                        0.28 acres
                                                                                                                                                              30.70'


                                                                                                                                                                                       L2



                                                                                                                                                                                                               42.35'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                               11213 sqft                      10080 sqft                     9120 sqft                                                   11040 sqft                        9120 sqft                   10560 sqft                                          10397 sqft
                                                                                                                                                               L1




                                                                                                          29.69'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               0.24 acres                                                                                                                                                                                12241 sqft
                                                                                    138.35'




                                                                                                                        101                                                                                                       CV




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        New street
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   CV                                                                                          10638 sqft




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  1300 E.
                                                                                                                                                                       30.00'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  10.25'
                                                                                                                                                 12598 S




                                                                                                                                                                                                  30.00'                     C22                                1047 E                            1053 E                                                     1063 E                            1073 E                                                                                                                                                                         CV                                                                                                                                                                                       1149 E
                                                                                                                     0.50 acres                                                                                                         1037 E                                                                                                                                                                               1081 E                                         1091 E                                                                                                 1111 E                                              1123 E                          1131 E                                               1143 E                                 C25
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               S0°36'00"W 330.44'




                                                                                                                                          C34                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               C9
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            C18
                                                                                                                                                                                                 C33

                                                                                                                                                                                                              C3




                                                                                                                     21902 sqft                                                                                                    86.25'                        84.00'                               76.00'          92.00'                                                                 76.00'                         88.00'                                          72.07'                                                                                                103.76'                                               92.00'                       84.00'                                                88.00'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     N89°57'45"W 574.32'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  N89°57'45"W 378.24'                                                                                                 C26
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            12610 SOUTH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      30.00'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    1030 E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   60.0




                                                                                                                    210.80'                                           30.00'                              12.91'                    12610 S                                                                                                                         666.83'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          436.13'                                                                                                                                                       0'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   S89°57'45"E1102.96'                                  1100 E                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      60.0
                                                                                                             WEST 210.80'                                                                                       146.91'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               30.00'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            (PUBLIC- 60' WIDE)                                                                         12610 S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      CV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              C2




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         S89°57'45"E1057.94'
                                                                                                                                                                            N0°00'00"E 159.82'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                7




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     92.63'                        91.00'                                         94.00'                                                 98.00'                             94.00'                                                90.00'                          84.00'             84.00'                                                                         95.06'                                                      84.00'                                     76.00'                           75.26'                 C1              1150 E
                                                                                                                                                      NORTH 142.90'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          1
                                                                                                                                                                                                  (PUBLIC- 60' WIDE)

                                                                                                                                                                                                                     9




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    1036 E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  C2




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     1048 E                                        1058 E                                                 1068 E                              1076 E                                              1086 E                            1098 E            1106 E                                                                          1118 E                                                     1126 E                                  1138 E                          1146 E                                    12610 S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  S0°02'15"W
                                                                                                                                                                      1030 EAST




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                CV
                                                                                                                                                                                                          12627 S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         N0°02'15"E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    N0°02'15"E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    122.44'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Driveway
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       S0°34'56"W 120.67'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  N0°02'15"E




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      136.28'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     122.38'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   144                                            143                                                   142                                 141                                          140                                          139                                                            138
                                                                                                                                                                                                    N0°00'00"E




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      S0°02'15"W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        137                                                       136                                    135                                   134
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             N0°02'15"E




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   122.12'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       N0°02'15"E




                                                                                                                     28-29-201-002
                                                                                                                                                                                                      92.50'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     S0°34'56"W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        122.07'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                 PARCEL A
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 N0°02'15"E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              122.25'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        122.32'




                                                                                                                   ROBERT BAKKER
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               N0°02'15"E




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       N0°02'15"E




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0.26 acres                                 0.26 acres                                                0.28 acres                          0.26 acres                               0.25 acres                                    0.24 acres                                                        0.24 acres
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       120.98'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              136.23'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                122.19'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0.28 acres                                                0.26 acres                              0.24 acres                            0.28 acres
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        122.01'




                                                                                                                  ENTRY No. 13545893                                                                                                                             11139 sqft                                 11501 sqft                                                11984 sqft                          11488 sqft                               10994 sqft                                    10256 sqft                                                        10251 sqft
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       N0°02'15"E




                                                                                                                   BK:11106 PG:5727                                                                                     CV 0.30 acres                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 12132 sqft                                                11445 sqft                              10351 sqft                            12157 sqft
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    136.18'




                                                                                                                SURVEY No. 2004-12-0929                                                                                    13082 sqft                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0.73'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               12628 S




                                                                                                                                                                      10.64'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        C28                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         S78°37'34"E
                                                                                                                                                                                                 58.36                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          C12       51.28'
                                                                                                                                                                                                          '                             92.56'                     91.00'                                         94.00'                                                98.00'                    94.00'                                      90.00'                                                  84.00'                                                           84.00'                                                                                                                                                                                                   21.00'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             MANFIELD WY.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          812.76'                    S89°59'55"W 727.56'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        84.00'                                     76.00'                              89.01'                          30.00'
                                                                                                                  12650 SOUTH STREET   WEST                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  S89°59'55"W 1112.77'
                                                                                                                (60' WIDE PUBLIC ROAD) 20 00'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             AREA TO BE DEDICATED TO                                                                                                                                                        12650 SOUTH STREET                                                                                                                          CARRAWAY LANE
                                                                                                                                                                                                              N70°00'00"W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Potential future trail
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        connection
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                HOUSING AFFORDABILITY                   Potential future street
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       STRATEGIES                       connection
                                                                      CITY FITZGERALD SITE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              •      Inclusion of signicant
           HISTORIC TOWN CENTER
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               percentage of aﬀordable units
    •18   Historic downtown continues               •20   Mixed use: destination retail/restaurant with                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        in new multifamily projects
          on current preservation and                     residential / oﬃce above, up to 3 stories                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     •      Preservation of existing                         800’              1,600’
          inll direction                           •21   Medium-size community / arts center                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  aﬀordable housing stock
    •19   Rened Town Center Zone
          that encourages up-to-3-story
                                                    •22
                                                    •23
                                                          Series of community plazas along Pioneer Road
                                                          Structured and/or tuck under parking
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        •      Workforce housing in City
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Town Center development              N
          walkable inll development                •24   Townhomes and duplexes: Deed-restricted                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       •31    Inclusion of up to 27 accessory
                                                          workforce housing                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    dwelling units (ADUs) in new
                                                    •25   Draper Park extension                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Bainbridge development




2   Draper Town Center Station Area Plan
Illustrative Concept and Plan Principles
The Station Area Plan's Illustrative Concept presents a high-level vision of the Preferred Concept developed by the Stakeholder Committee and the Project
Team. It is the result of several months of committee visioning, field work, public engagement, discussions, research and analysis, brainstorming, consideration of
tradeoffs, and decision making. It is shown at left. The Plan Principles convey the 10 key points of agreement and priorities for the Station Area, and are shown
below on the 3-D image of the Illustrative Concept below.
There are several levels of improvements shown on the Illustrative Concept, including specific land uses on the two core sites of the Draper City Fitzgerald Site
and the UTA property; other areas recommended for upzoning to a Transit Oriented Community (TOC) designation, including the IFA property and the area to
the west of the UTA site; A potential transition area between the TOC zoning area and the historic downtown area to the west; and an area encompassing much
of the shopping centers along 12300 South to the north and east of the TOC area. Note that much of the 1/2 mile Station Area does not have a designation in
the Illustrative Concept. These are largely residential neighborhoods envisioned to remain as-is into the future. The diagram below shows one potential way
these areas could be transformed to achieve the Principles and Illustrative Concept.

1 A walkable, active Main         2 A nexus of trail                     3 Mixed-use town                 4 Significant residential              5 Flexibility toward IFA with
    Street on Pioneer Road.           connections.                         center on City site.               density on UTA site in up-           encouragement of future
                                                                                                              to-5-story buildings.                redevelopment.
                                                         8

                                                                                                                                  7
                                                                                              2           7                                 OUTLYING AREAS



                                                                                                                                                              7
                                      3
                      STATION AREA CORE SITES                5                                        4



                                                                                                                      2
                                                                                                                                                                    7
             10                                 1                2   6                            9
                  3                                 10
         9                        3
                                           10


                                                                                                                                  2
     2




6   Improved TRAX         7   Rezoning of some areas                      8 Preservation of the scale of                   9 Quality transitions to      10       Connectivity
    station access.           around the station to allow                   Draper’s historic downtown, south                established residential              improvements
                              and encourage transit-                        and west of the transit-oriented                 neighborhoods and                    throughout the
                              oriented community.                           area, including encouragement of                 historic resources.                  station area.
                                                                            compatible new development.
                                                                                                                                      Draper Town Center Station Area Plan    3
                  Street level views of the Station Area's envisioned public spaces: From the City Town Center plaza north across Pioneer Road to the TRAX
                   how the
Renderings showingstation     envisioned
                           (top)          CityaTown
                                 ; and from          Center along
                                                redeveloped IFA sitePioneer                 mixed-use
                                                                                  (top) andmill
                                                                            Roadpreserved
                                                                      plaza with                buildingsdevelopment
                                                                                                          south to theatCity  UTA site
                                                                                                                          theTown      along
                                                                                                                                  Center            project(bottom).
                                                                                                                                                use South
                                                                                                                                             12300
                                                                                                                                          mixed              (bottom).

4    Draper Town Center Station Area Plan
Implementation Plan
The Implementation Plan summarizes the key actions that can enable the City of Draper and its partners to implement the Station Area Plan. The
Implementation Plan’s actions have been crafted to enable the City and its partners to realize the Illustrative Concept and Plan Principles.
The Implementation Plan's flow chart below shows three types of actions undertaken primarily by the City, UTA, and their partners:

•   Initial City Actions: Adopting the Station Area Plan and making two key zoning changes - refining the Town Center Zone and creating a new Transit-Oriented
    Zone to be applied to many of the core station area properties.
•   Redevelopment Sites: Actions to move forward redevelopment of the Station Area's key redevelopment sites - the City-owned site envisioned to be a Town
    Center; the UTA site envisioned to focus on multifamily residential developments; and the IFA site, envisioned to transition to mixed use residential, with the
    preservation of the grain mill if possible.
•   Infrastructure Investments: The suite of infrastructure that will create a connected, vibrant system of public spaces and transportation networks focused
    around the station. The key investments are access and public space improvements to the station itself; the transformation of Pioneer Road to the area's
    Main Street; the extension of Draper Park and realignment of the 1120 East access drive; the Canal Trail and other trail links; and a series of bike striping and
    sidewalk improvements.


                                                                  Year
                                           1           2              3           4           5                  6 - 10                      10 - 20
                                      Adopt SAP
               INITIAL CITY
                                            New Transit Zone
           POLICY ACTIONS
                                               Modify TC Zone

                                                         CITY SITE TOWN CENTER


          REDEVELOPMENT                                  UTA SITE

                   SITES
                                                           IFA SITE
                                                                                                      IFA relocation, site redevelopment, and adaptive reuse


                                                                                Bike lanes and sidewalks

                                                                  Canal Trail
         INFRASTRUCTURE                                         Pioneer Road Improvements
            INVESTMENTS
                                                                                              Draper Park Extension

                                                                                                           Platform Improvements




                                                                                                                                        Draper Town Center Station Area Plan   5
                                           This page is intentionally left blank.




6   Draper Town Center Station Area Plan
INTRODUCTION & PLAN VISION
The Draper Town Center Station Area Plan guides the future of the area surrounding the Draper Town Center TRAX Station. The station lies
at the end of the TRAX Blue Line. It was built as part of a 2013 TRAX extension along a historic rail line. The area around it is Draper's historic
downtown, with several landmarks such as the IFA grain mill, warehouse, and store; the Park School; and the Draper Theater. It contains many of
Draper's civic institutions - its City Hall, its library; its senior center; and Draper Park.
It also has several key sites that present the opportunity to leverage the light rail station investment, create a vibrant town center for Draper, and
achieve a variety of other community and regional goals. Foremost among these are the large Utah Transit Authority (UTA) owned station parking
lot north of the station and the Draper City-owned Fitzgerald property on the south side of Pioneer Road.
The Plan is driven by and fulfills the requirements of Utah House Bill 462. It establishes a vision and 5-year development plan for the half-mile
radius in accordance with the law, and addresses the broad regional and State goals that H.B. 462 establishes.
The Plan is guided by the following 10 Principles that constitute the plan's Vision:

1. A walkable, active Main Street on Pioneer Road.                           6. Improved TRAX station access.
2. A nexus of trail connections.                                             7. Rezoning of some areas around the station to allow and
                                                                             encourage transit-oriented development.
3. Mixed-use town center on City site with destination
restaurants and retail, community center and some housing, that              8. Preservation of the scale of Draper’s historic downtown, south
is engaged with and connected to Draper Park and other civic                 and west of the transit-oriented area.
destinations.
                                                                             9. Quality transitions to established residential neighborhoods
4. Significant residential density on UTA site in up-to-5-story              and historic resources.
buildings.
                                                                             10. Connectivity improvements throughout the station area.
5. Flexibility toward IFA with encouragement of future
redevelopment.
The following sections of the Station Area Plan include the background to the planning effort; the foundations of the Plan; a summary of the
planning process; an overview of the plan's Vision; the plan's more detailed elements; and finally the Implementation Plan.




                                                                                                                Draper Town Center Station Area Plan     7
BACKGROUND
The Draper Town Center Station Area Plan covers the area shown in Figure                    open spaces, and the use and development of land in the station area.
1. It is informed by a variety of sources. While the State Station Area Planning        •   Implementation (Five-Year Development) plan
requirement was the most immediate driver of the Plan, other factors made
this a ripe opportunity: A variety of local plans by Draper City setting the stage      For Draper City, with the TLC grant, it was an opportune time to fulfill the
for improvements in the area; interest in large new developments on key sites;          station area planning requirement for the Town Center Station.
and the growing momentum of transit-oriented communities throughout
Utah.
                                                                                        Previous planning and policy
                                                                                        The station area is informed by several planning efforts. The area received
WFRC grant                                                                              a station area plan previously, in 2007, when the station's TRAX Blue Line
In 2020, Draper City received a grant from the Wasatch Front Regional                   extension was still in the planning stages. The Plan set out an initial vision for
Council's Transportation and Land Use Connection (TLC) program. This grant,             the area, laying the groundwork for the new Town Center Zone that applied
along with matching funds from Draper City, funded the Plan.                            to much of the station area. Other City planning efforts included the General
                                                                                        Plan, the Master Transportation Plan, and the Active Transportation Plan. A
State of Utah Station Area Planning                                                     more complete summary of plans and their implications for the Town Center
Requirements                                                                            Station Area Plan can be found in the Existing Conditions and Opportunities
                                                                                        Report, an appendix to this plan.
In 2022, the Utah Legislature passed H.B. 462, which established a series of
requirements for station area plans around fixed-guideway transit stations.             Key potential development sites
The law's objective was to advance shared goals by maximizing development
                                                                                        In 2022, Draper City purchased approximately five acres of the Fitzgerald
potential in appropriate areas through a collaborative city-led planning
                                                                                        farm, which lies across Pioneer Road from the Town Center TRAX Station
approach, allowing cities to determine how best to meet shared objectives
                                                                                        and the IFA mill. The City bought the property in part to control the future of
without mandating a specific approach or zoning.
                                                                                        this part of its Town Center. Heading into the Station Area Plan process, the
If a city has a fixed-guideway public transit station (rail or bus rapid transit), it   property presented the opportunity to establish a Town Center for the Draper
is required to develop a Station Area Plan (SAP) for that station and update            community.
its general plan and zoning to implement the Station Area Plan. Plans are
                                                                                        Meanwhile, UTA became increasingly interested in redeveloping the property
reviewed by the relevant Metropolitan Planning Organization (MPO). Zoning
                                                                                        it owns north of the station, which contains the station's surface parking lot. It
changes within the Station Area will have increased referendum thresholds.
                                                                                        had received interest from developers on building out the site with housing or
Requirements include:                                                                   other uses. In addition, IFA had been considering the prospects of moving its
                                                                                        mill, warehouse, and/or store to another location. Moving the mill especially
•       Plan for ½ mile radius around station platform
                                                                                        would be an investment in the tens of millions of dollars, but it had been
•       Achieve a series of SAP objectives: availability and affordability of           considered as early as the previous planning process.
        housing; sustainable environmental conditions; access to opportunities;
        transportation choices and connections.                                         These three sites - the City Fitzgerald site, the UTA site, and the IFA site,
                                                                                        presented a major opportunity to re-envision the core of the station area.
•       Station Area Vision
•       Station Area Map                                                                Transit Oriented Communities
•       Public engagement                                                               Meanwhile, along the Wasatch Front, with the TRAX light rail system
                                                                                        approaching a quarter century of service, transit oriented communities
•       Identification of constraints and opportunities for the development of land
                                                                                        (TOCs) had begun to become a reality. Especially along the Blue Line, running
        and descriptions of future transportation systems, land uses, public and

    8   Draper Town Center Station Area Plan
Figure 1: Draper Town Center Station Area, including Town Center Station, area within 1/2 mile radius around the station, and the initial area of focus.

                                                                                                                                          Draper Town Center Station Area Plan   9
along the spine of Salt Lake Valley, the areas around many stations had                 homes, storefronts, and landmark civic sites like the Park School and
begun to see the kind of intensive and often walkable housing, employment,              cemetery.
and commercial development that complemented the rail stations - in                 •   Draper Historic Industrial: A cluster of manufacturing, processing, and
downtown Salt Lake City, the Central 9th neighborhood, in South Salt Lake at            service uses in shed-type buildings that hugs the TRAX rail tracks on either
Meadowbrook, and in the Fireclay area. UTA was authorized to begin entering             side. It includes Little Dutch Boy Bakery and K9 Lifeline, as well as IFA.
joint developments on its property surrounding TRAX and FrontRunner
commuter rail stations. In a station area nearby the Draper Town Center, UTA        •   Draper Parkway Commercial: Draper’s primary commercial corridor.
worked with developers to build the East Village project in Sandy. With many            12300 South is a relatively standard suburban, auto-focused commercial
of these projects built and underway, the prospects for a transit-oriented              corridor, with a wide range of vibrant commercial uses. While it is well
community around the Town Center station were tangible.                                 within the ½ mile and even ¼ mile radius of the station, this area feels
                                                                                        separate from the station area largely due to the topography as well as
Station Area overview                                                                   the size and traffic volumes of 12300 South.
The Draper Town Center Station Area, for the purposes of this plan, is the land     •   East Pioneer Road corridor: The Pioneer Road corridor heading east
within a half-mile radius of the station platform, shown in Figure 2. At the core       from the TRAX station comprises its own district due to its separation from
of this area are the three key sites identified above; surrounding them are             12300 South by the steep hill on one side and its eclectic land uses and
several distinct districts and neighborhoods:                                           vacant land that distinguish it from the civic campus and neighborhoods.
•   Draper Civic Campus: A series of large institutional and recreational           •   Single Family Neighborhoods: The station area contains several
    destinations including City Hall, Draper Park, The Salt Lake County Library         distinct neighborhoods that are largely comprised of single-family
    and the Senior Center, as well as historic venues such as the Day Barn.             homes with schools and parks. These lie on all sides of the station. To
                                                                                        the west are residential areas that blend into Historic Draper; to the
•   Draper Historic Downtown: The core of the historic Draperville
                                                                                        east are neighborhoods along the 1300 East corridor; to the south are
    settlement, distinguished by the historic grid of streets and historic
                                                                                        neighborhoods being converted from agricultural land; and to the north
                                                                                        are residential neighborhoods in Sandy. In the center of the area, the
                                                                                        Parkstone neighborhood is a unique residential area in the station area
                                                                                        due to its proximity to the station and the current station parking lot. The
                                                                                        Plan does not recommend changes to these areas.




10 Draper Town Center Station Area Plan
                                                                                  Character Districts
                                                                                          Historic Town Center

                                                                                          Civic Campus

                                                                                          Historic Industrial

                                                                                          East Pioneer

                                                                                          12300 South Commercial

                                                                                          Surrounding Neighborhoods




Figure 2: 1/2 Mile Station Area showing key sites and character districts,

                                                                             Draper Town Center Station Area Plan   11
PLAN PROCESS
The Draper Town Center Station Area Plan's process of arriving at a preferred vision and concept is critical to providing a foundation for its future success.
The process, which took place from August 2022 to February 2025, carefully brought a core group of stakeholders and the public along to establish goals,
understand the Station Area, develop strategies, and make decisions through a series of meetings, workshops, and periods of research and plan-making. The
process was inclusive of a range of stakeholders from the Draper community and the Wasatch Front region, but also kept the primary City leadership connected
to the process, emerging with a Station Area Plan with both broad consensus and effective buy-in.
Project Team                                                                     Stakeholder Committee
The planning process was managed by a core team of the project partners          The Station Area Plan's Stakeholder Committee was the core decisionmaking
- Draper City, Wasatch Front Regional Council (WFRC), and Utah Transit           body for the project. The committee worked closely with the project
Authority (UTA), as well as the consultant team, which was led by Township       management team to direct and shape the plan. Committee members
+ Range Community Planning and supported by Leland Consulting Group              included Draper residents, Draper City leadership (Council members and
(market analysis), Parametrix (transportation planning), and Bowen Studios       Planning Commissioners), additional City staff, key property owners, and
(3-D renderings).                                                                regional partner representatives. The group met five times throughout the
                                                                                 planning process:
The team established a scope and schedule that included three project
phases:                                                                          •   Meeting 1: The Committee was introduced to one another, learned about
                                                                                     the project, took a walking tour of the station area, and undertook some
•     Gathering Information: Establish vision and goals; undertake technical
                                                                                     visioning exercises to create Station Area Plan Goals.
      analysis; initial public engagement.
                                                                                 •   Meeting 2: The Project Team presented the Existing Conditions Analysis
•     Station Area Strategies: Develop a range of potential strategies and
                                                                                     and results of the first Public Engagement phase. The Committee
      concepts for the station area.
                                                                                     brainstormed potential land use and transportation concepts for the
•     Draft and Final Station Area Plan: Select a preferred concept and              station area (see section below for more on this workshop).
      develop a Draft and Final Plan, including an Implementation Plan.
                                                                                 •   Meeting 3: The Project Team presented three draft alternative concepts
                                                                                     to the Committee, which endorsed these alternatives to be presented to
                                                                                     the public in an open house.
                                                                                 •   Meeting 4: The Committee selected a preferred station area concept and
                                                                                     discussed implementation strategies.
                                                                                 •   Meeting 5: The Project Team presented the Draft Plan to the Committee.




                                                                                 Stakeholder Committee station area walking tour.

    12 Draper Town Center Station Area Plan
Station Area Goals
The Draper Town Center Station Area Goals communicate the desired outcomes for both the future Town Center station area and the plan that will guide it. The
Goals were and will continue to be used for multiple purposes - to focus the existing conditions analysis, to generate strategies, and to evaluate alternatives. As
a vital piece of the plan, they will also be of use to the project partners implementing the plan going forward, providing a compass of priority and community
values.
The Goals were developed directly from the input of the Draper Town Center Station Area Plan Stakeholder Committee at its kickoff meeting in October 2022, as
well as initial team discussion and analysis.
The project team identified a range of themes from these discussions and refined these into a list of 10 Station Area Goals. These Station Area Goals contain
conflicts among them and this is exactly the idea – the transformation inherent in station area planning entails making tradeoffs among competing priorities. This
goal framework is a mechanism for identifying and making those tradeoffs.


Heritage: Preserve key aspects of Draper’s history and incorporate into the        Balance and link modes: Balance and link a foundation of walkability with
urban design and public space of the station area.                                 the other key transportation modes of transit, bicycling, and traffic.
Respect surrounding neighborhoods: Integrate new development and                   Regional benefits: Increase access to regional opportunity via the Draper
improvements in a way that respects the existing community.                        Town Center Station, increase housing affordability, and realize other regional
                                                                                   benefits.
Town Center gathering place: Establish the station area as a gathering
place and destination for the Draper community.                                    Intensity and vitality: Create activity and vibrancy by adding well-designed
                                                                                   intensity of use into the station area.
Complementary mix: Mix uses in a complementary way and include housing
and recreation as key uses.                                                        Core sites: Focus the plan on the best use and coordination of the key
                                                                                   development sites owned by UTA, Draper City, and IFA to support the station
Connectivity and access: Connect the station area to maximize access to
                                                                                   area, region, and community.
the station, link among the key sites, make the station area accessible to the
community, and overcome topography and barriers.                                   Effective plan: Create an effective plan that is balanced, functional,
                                                                                   thoughtful, strategic, viable, implementable, and reflects the full range of
                                                                                   stakeholder desires.




                                                                                                                      Draper Town Center Station Area Plan        13
Existing conditions analysis



 DRAPER
Throughout Fall 2022, the Project Team undertook a comprehensive Existing Conditions and Opportunities Analysis for the Station Area Plan. The analysis
covered land use, urban design, transportation, and the market. The following summarizes the key findings; for the full analysis, please see the Appendix.
Land Use & Urban Design
Land use and urban design vary widely throughout the Draper Town Center Station Area - from the quaint historic Draperville town center area to the busy strip
 TOWN CENTER
commercial areas of 12300 South to the industrial areas including the iconic IFA grain mill. Figure 3 below shows the fine-grained mix in the area's core.
Consequently, the Plan analyzes land use and urban design through the lens of character districts: a set of distinct areas that comprise the station area. The
vision of the station area will rest on decisions made about each of these districts and how to connect them. While land use refers to the specific use of the

  Station Area Plan
property, urban design is the form the use takes, with emphasis on the impacts to and shaping of the public realm.


                                                                                                                   DRAPER
                                                                                                                                                                    IFA grain mill

 Existing Land Use
      Single Family: Detached
                                                                                                                   TOWN CENTER
      Single Family: Attached
                                                                                                                   StationDraper
                                                                                                                           AreaCity
                                                                                                                                 Plan
                                                                                                                                    Hall
      Multi-Family, Senior Living
                                                                                                                   Existing Land Use
      Common Areas PUDs                                                                                               Single Family: Detached

      Mixed Use: Retail/Office                                                                                        Single Family: Attached
                                                                                                                      Multi-Family, Senior Living

      Mixed Use: Retail/ Residential                                                                                  Common Areas PUDs                         Park School & Cemetery
                                                                                                                      Mixed Use: Retail/Office
      Mixed Use: Residential/Office                                                                                   Mixed Use: Retail/ Residential
                                                                                                                      Mixed Use: Residential/Office
      Open Space: Parks                                                                                               Open Space: Parks
                                                                                                                      Open Space: Trails/Canals
      Open Space: Trails/Canals
                                                                                                                      Agriculture

      Agriculture                                                                                                     Transit
                                                                                                                                         Town Center
                                                                                                                      Industrial
      Transit                                                                                                                            TRAX Station
                                                                                                                      Vacant(Not Green Space)
                                                                                                                      Auto Services
      Industrial                                                                                                      Retail/Resturants/Shopping
                                                                                                                      Professional Office
      Vacant(Not Green Space)
                                                                                                                      Education (Private or Public)
                                                                                                                                                                     Draper Park
      Auto Services                                                                                                   Civic: City / County
                                                                                                                      Civic: Religious
      Retail/Resturants/Shopping                                                                                      Civic: Museums
                                                                                                                      Civic: Entertainment/Arts
      Professional Office
      Education (Private or Public)                                                                                                800’                1,600’
      Civic: City / County
      Civic: Religious                                                                                               N
       Civic: Museums
       Civic: Entertainment/Arts

Figure 3: Existing land uses in the Station Area.

                   800’                1,600’
14 Draper Town Center Station Area Plan
Historic Draper
Land Use: Historic Draper has an eclectic mix of uses           Urban Design: This district has a historic
– retail, food, services, professional office, residential,     walkable character, though only in stretches.
entertainment (Draper Theater), and civic (cemetery, park).     There are some classic frontages – such as
There are new residential and non-residential uses through      the storefront awning on Fort Street and
adaptive reuse and some infill projects: Park School, Maven,    the Draper Theater. Infill contributes to its
Draper Cove, and Bubble N Bean are examples.                    character, but underutilized sites still exist.

Civic Campus
Land Use: Land uses are all civic and recreation                Urban Design: The park, library and senior
destinations: Draper City Hall, Draper Park, the Draper         center largely have a standard suburban
Library, the Draper Historical Society, Day Barn event space,   recreation character but with some potential
and the Draper Senior Center. These are low-intensity uses      to link to the walkable character of the historic
with lots of open space but also lure a lot of visitors.        area and leverage trails that converge here.

Historic Industrial
Land use: An eclectic mix of manufacturing, processing,         Urban design: The uses in this district
wholesale, retail, and services. Each use is quite large to     largely do not relate to the street and work
very large. As currently constituted, this mix seems to be      off internal circulation, creating a lack of
compatible with one another and surrounding districts.          pedestrian character and connectivity.

Draper Parkway Commercial
Land use: The land uses here constitute primarily a classic     Urban design: Auto-oriented suburban
suburban strip commercial mix: grocery, food, gas, banks,       strip commercial format – parking in front
hardware, pharmacy, services, sporting goods, insurance,        of buildings, large parking fields; properties
and others. There are also some non-commercial uses             mostly do not closely relate to the street,
mixed in such as a KinderCare.                                  especially east of about 1000 East.


East Pioneer
Land use: The East Pioneer character district has eclectic      Urban design: Is in part a support/circulation
land uses that lean commercial (restaurant, car wash, events    area for other districts; a general lack of a
center) but also include some housing and vacant areas.         relationship of properties to streets.


Surrounding Neighborhoods
Land use: primarily detached single family homes, with          Urban design: Standard suburban single
some attached single family such as Diamond Ridge               family neighborhoods with imperfect street
Townhomes. Elementary schools and parks are also                grids but no major connectivity barriers. Trails
present.                                                        are an opportunity to connect to the Town
                                                                Center.
                                                                                                                    Draper Town Center Station Area Plan   15
Transportation                                                                              The LOS in 2027 was forecasted to remain the same or improve at all
                                                                                            intersections except a decline from a C to a D at 1000 East and Draper
The project team analyzed the existing and planned networks for all                         Parkway, and from a B to an F at 900 East and Pioneer Road, due to the
transportation modes.                                                                       southbound left turn.
Multi-modal network                                                                         TRAX Station
Figure 4 below shows the analysis of the multi-modal network, including the                 The Draper Town Center Station is the southern end of the TRAX Blue Line.
major corridors of 12300 South, Pioneer Road, and 1300 East, and to some                    Blue Line trains serve the Town Center station every 15 minutes from 4:40
degree Fort Street and 900 East, along with the supporting street grid. In                  a.m. to 11:25 p.m. every weekday, with slightly reduced hours on either end
general, the block pattern in irregular and blocks are large, to accommodate                on the weekend.
many of the industrial uses and agricultural lots.
                                                                                            The Town Center Station has a unique access configuration. Built into an
The map also shows existing and planned bike facilities, and highlights the                 existing rail right-of-way between the IFA and the Parkstone subdivision, with
constraints of the existing "walk shed" - the area available within 1/4 mile and            the steep-sloping property to the north that became the park-and-ride lot,
1/2 mile walks, due to the lack of connectivity discussed above.                            its design had to fit the platforms and access to them in an awkward triangle
Transportation activity                                                                     where the tracks meet Pioneer Road. People can only cross the tracks at the
                                                                                            far east end of the platform.
The team also analyzed transportation activity, including a traffic analysis for
existing and future conditions, based on a 2022 development impact analysis.                About 80 percent of access mode to the station is evenly split between
All of the measured intersections showed existing level of service (LOS) "D" or             walking and driving alone. Compared to the mode split of the whole UTA rail
better, with no failing (E or F) intersections. While there are no failures, LOS is         system, Draper has many fewer pedestrian access trips and more drive-alone
most strained along the Draper Parkway corridor peaking at a LOS D at 1300                  trips. But it is still important to consider that 40 percent of people are walking
East. LOS along Pioneer Road is very good, with A’s and B’s throughout.                     to the station to ride TRAX.
                                                                                            August 2019 data show generally 500 - 800 boardings/alightings per weekday,
                                                                                            with an average of 546 alightings and 724 boardings. That is about 7 to 9
                                                                                            people per train on average. By 2024, the weekday boardings dropped to an
                                                                                            average of 442.




Figure 4: Existing and planned transportation network, including the "walkshed," the area   Aerial image of the layout of the Town Center Station.
reachable within a walk of 1/4 mile or 1/2 mile.

 16 Draper Town Center Station Area Plan
Existing parking for the station is in a dedicated surface lot on a large parcel      Retail, Office, and Institutional Development
north of the station that contains a total of 434 spaces. Team counts found
that overall utilization of parking in the lot is very low at less than 10 percent.   Retail and office development are possible in the Draper study area at modest
                                                                                      amounts (not large scale), which aligns well with overall market trends towards
Market Analysis                                                                       smaller-scale, “experiential” commercial.
The project team prepared an analysis of the market to understand the best            The study area’s distance from I-15 rules out most larger-scale retail concepts,
opportunities for development within the station area. The analysis considers         though auto-centric development dominates within the study area. The
the demographics of the Draper community and the market prospects                     presence of transit, particularly if complemented with residential and other
for each of several land use categories appropriate to a transit oriented             commercial development, could offer an opportunity for pioneering more
community (TOC).                                                                      walkable shopping development in the study area. CoStar data shows market
                                                                                      rents of $25 per square foot and low vacancy rates (0.6%) as of December
Draper’s population is projected to grow 20% by 2031, slightly slower than
                                                                                      2022, comparable to the City’s overall rents of $27 and vacancy rate of 0.7%.
the 22.6% growth seen over the past decade but at a faster clip than the
county as a whole (to grow 14% by 2031). Employment nearly doubled in                 Similarly to retail, office and institutional categories suffer from not being
Draper from 19,150 jobs in 2010 to 37,881 in 2019. Employment growth is               near I-15, and at the “end of the line” of the TRAX Blue Line. Office is possible,
likely to continue, with employment in Salt Lake County projected to grow             particularly on the City’s Fitzgerald property, but it likely will not be large-
to over 850,000 jobs by 2028 (a 24% increase over 2018 levels). In its 2023           scale class A office, and may require incentives from the City. Tenants would
Emerging Trends report, the ULI ranked the Salt Lake City metro #19 (of 80)           likely be local-serving, such as dentists and tax preparers. The Draper Cove
for overall real estate prospects. The region’s mix of economic opportunity,          development, built in 2021, suggests there is demand for this property type in
affordability (relative to coastal markets), and quality of life (such as natural/    the study area.
outdoor amenities) have long been noted as draws for this market, and have
                                                                                      Community Recreation Center and other Civic Buildings
been reinforced by COVID-19 pandemic-era trends. Given these recent trends
and projections for continued growth, LCG expects continued demand for                Interest in a community recreation center was expressed by residents
housing, office, commercial, and other types of real estate in Draper.                throughout the Plan process, and by City staff and leadership in other
Housing                                                                               meetings. The range in possible scales and uses requires further study to
                                                                                      determine relative costs and feasibility—but a development of this type could
Housing in Draper primarily consists of single-family homes, with limited             certainly be a part of future development in the study area.
apartment inventory of just under 3,000 units. Yet, the City has seen an uptick
in apartment development in the past few years—hitting a City record in the
first quarter of 2022 for the number of multifamily units built, at 776, over a
12-month period. Most of these developments have been on the larger end
(120 to 308 units) and located near I-15. Draper currently has 26 accessory
dwelling units (ADU) and 27 in review.
The City’s 2022 Moderate Housing Income Report identifies a current
shortage of 1,796 housing units for moderate incomes (at or below 80% area
median income, or AMI). Without action, this shortage is projected to rise to
2,269 over the next five years, along with overall expected growth from the
City’s 16,121 current households to the projected 17,827 in 2027.
There are several housing types possible within the station area, including
multifamily condominiums, multifamily rental, and "middle" housing, which
includes townhomes, multi-plexes, live-work units, accessory dwelling units,
and even single family small lot detached housing.



                                                                                                                         Draper Town Center Station Area Plan        17
Public Engagement: First Phase                                                       The feedback obtained was compiled together into themes related to the
                                                                                     Station Area Goals, shown in Figure 5 on the next page.
In November 2022, the planning team began engaging with the community on
the project, hosting the first of three Community Open Houses on November            Takeaways
14 at Draper City Hall. Approximately 40 people attended the Open House.             Open House feedback and survey responses indicated widespread, although
They provided feedback in a number of ways, including:                               not universal, support for the following
•     Identifying assets, challenges, destinations, and ideas on a detailed map of   Concepts in the station area/town center:
      the study area;
                                                                                     •   Preserving and celebrating Draper’s heritage and historic features.
•     Providing ideas on what to build on the City-owned parcel across from the
      TRAX station;                                                                  •   Design and high quality of building.
•     A paper and online survey that sought feedback on each of the 10 Station       •   Developing a “civic center” or “community center” on the City’s newly
      Area Goals. The survey asked how important each goal was on a scale of 1           acquired five-acre parcel of the former Fitzgerald farm (“Fitzgerald
      to 5 and for ideas on how to achieve each goal'. The survey received over          property” in the following), in a way that knits together surrounding
      500 responses; and                                                                 City property and public land (parks, City Hall, County library and senior
                                                                                         center). (However, there seem to be many different definitions of what a
•     Open-ended comment cards
                                                                                         “civic center” or “community center” is.)
                                                                                     •   Attracting businesses such as restaurants, bakeries, coffee shops— and
                                                                                         civic spaces such as a plaza or other community gathering space.
                                                                                     •   Hosting events and/or a farmer’s market, with complementary
                                                                                         development such as food trucks.
                                                                                     The public shared concerns about:
                                                                                     •   High density housing, particularly if such housing adds traffic on Pioneer
                                                                                         Road.
                                                                                     •   Safety of certain intersections and roads for pedestrians and cyclists.
                                                                                     There are varying views on development:
                                                                                     •   Some community members believed there would be benefits to significant
                                                                                         new commercial and residential development in the town center if it is
                                                                                         well designed, while others did not. Perceived benefits include adding
                                                                                         restaurants, bakeries, coffee shops, and other uses and providing housing
                                                                                         for a variety of residents; perceived drawbacks include concerns about
                                                                                         traffic, other impacts, and change.
                                                                                     •   Some community members are supportive of vertical mixed-use (e.g.,
                                                                                         office or housing space over ground floor retail), while others are not.




    18 Draper Town Center Station Area Plan
Figure 5: Comment themes from the Phase 1 survey relative to support of or opposition to the Station Area Goals.

                                                                                                                   Draper Town Center Station Area Plan   19
Stakeholder Committee Concept Workshop
With the Existing Conditions and Opportunities Analysis and First Phase
Public Engagement complete, the Project Team convened the Stakeholder
Committee for a second meeting in January 2023. This meeting was primarily a
workshop to brainstorm land use, transportation, and urban design concepts
for the Station Area Plan.
After the Project Team presented the conclusions of the Existing Conditions
and Opportunities Analysis and the First Phase Public Engagement, the
Committee was split up into two smaller groups, each around a large table.
Each group was a mix of different types of stakeholders within the committee.
The tables held station area core maps and the groups used "chips"
representing a range of land uses to brainstorm and try out ideas, ultimately
assembling concepts.
Each table emerged with a relatively complete concept. The concepts were
similar in many elements. Those similarities included:
•     A town center on City property with community center, restaurant/retail
      and plaza space;
•     Mid-rise multi-family development on UTA site;
•     An open space buffer between UTA site and Parkstone;
•     Trail connections throughout the station area;
•     Retail along 12300 South.




Images from the Stakeholder Committee workshop to assemble concepts for the core of the
Station Area: One group discussing ideas (above); and the two group concepts (at right).

    20 Draper Town Center Station Area Plan
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 DRAPE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 DRAPE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 TOWN CENT
    Alternative Concepts                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         TOWN CENT
    Based on the ideas of the Committee, as well as the results of the Existing                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Station Area P
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Station Area P
    Conditions and Opportunities Analysis and public input, the Project Team
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Shared
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Station
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Upzone to                                                  ALTERNATIVE 2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Parking
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Multifamily
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ALTERNATIVE    1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Pioneer Main Stre
    developed three distinct approaches to achieving the Station Area Goals.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Mixed use
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Structure
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     3 - 5 stories
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Internal    Town Cent
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  CITY PROPERTY
    The alternatives were a way to present tradeoffs and explore ideas. These                                                                                                                                                               Rail/canal
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Multifamily/                                                Village   / Park Exten
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  • Town center created with
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     restaurants, plazas along
    alternatives are summarized below.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Mixed use
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               trail                                 Multifamily
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        5 story
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  • Includes
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 CITY  PROPERTY  a medium comm
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Rail/canal
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             corridor                                 3 - 5 story                                                     centercenter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              fronting    onto with
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Pion
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              trail                                                                                              • Town              created
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      terraced
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            corridor                                                                                              • internal
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Single family   attached
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               extension     of Dratr
    Alternative 1: Draper Park Extension & Limited Change                                                                                                                                                                         Adaptively
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    reused Multifamily
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Park /
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 •• Includes
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Trail/open
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     integrated
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   spacecommun
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            corrido
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                a small
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      connectingintoDraper    Park
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        the Town
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Trail                                                          communityand   center
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     shed      buildings
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Corridor Townhomes with
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     plaza/park,         retail/res
    Alternative 1 created a town center oriented to an internal extension of                                                                                                                                                       buildings front onto
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             network of
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Trail
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Corridor
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Parkstone street
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Surface
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   connection
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 •UTA/IFA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Housing along Pioneer Ro
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      5-story
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  • single     multifamily
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             family  attached  build
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 as
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             open spaces
    Draper Park. It included a small community center integrated into the Town
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              parking
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               (will need for
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           to work out
                                                                                                                                                                                                               Adaptively reused old IFA store
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 station
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               link  to private street)                               terraced down the hill
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 UTA/IFA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               IFA remains as-is                                              ~130 spaces                                        •• 3Central   community
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       - 5 story  multifamily  park
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 bu
    Center plaza/park, and retail/restaurants; housing along Pioneer Road; and                                                                                                                                                                                                              2-4Series
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                story of community
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      mixed          plazas along Pioneer Road
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             use residential
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Parkstone
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  • terraced    down
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      single family
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 • Parkstone
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   buﬀered
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  buﬀered
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               by at
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        the hill
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      neighborho
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              by op
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Pioneer
    single family attached as a transition. On the UTA site, 3 - 5 story multifamily                                                                                                                                                              Existing                                     1-2 storyand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         retail and oﬃce
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            retail
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Road Main                 City Hall                                 Community     plaza for retail/
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Surface parking
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      including   street
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     and surface parking  connecti
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Street with                                                            community
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Community       center
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          park                                   •• Residential
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Adaptive reuse      of indust
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   buildings    fron
    buildings terraced down the hill; Parkstone was buffered by open space and                                                                                                                                           walkable
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       re-design and
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Existing
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  City Hall
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Medium Park/ Town-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Community Trail homes
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      IFA remains
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  • network
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      adaptively
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     but old store
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                of trails
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   reused
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 • Station    parking    reduced b
    surface parking; and residential buildings front onto a network of trails. Station
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         upzoning                                  Center         Town-                                                           • remains
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Station parking
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Surface parking for  Small Community
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  homes
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               surface integrate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          lot
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            community/civic uses      Center                                                                          structure   shared
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 • IFA   remains    as-is with re
    parking reduced by two-thirds but remains a surface lot. IFA remains as-is.                                                                                                                                 Multifamily housing
                                                                                                                                                                                                                (Apartments/Condos)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  PIONEERROAD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 PIONEER     ROADCORRIDOR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      CORRIDOR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 •• Less
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Pioneer   Road -on walkable
    There was less emphasis on Pioneer Road as a walkable corridor. Zoning                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 emphasis         Pionee
                                                                                                                                                                                                               Multifamily
                                                                                                                                                                                                                Townhomeshousing
                                                                                                                                                                                                               (Apartments/Condos)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                (Single Family Attached)                                                                                                              Upzoning
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 •• Zoning    stays   promote
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  to same    alongin
                                                                                                                                                                                                               Townhomes

    stayed the same along the corridor.                                                                                                                                                                         Retail/Restaurant
                                                                                                                                                                                                               (Single Family Attached)
                                                                                                                                                                                                               Retail/Restaurant
                                                                                                                                                                                                                Civic/Community Center
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     corridor
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              800’           1,60

                                                                                                                            IFA Mill
                                                                                                                                                                                                               Civic/Community
                                                                                                                                                                                                                Park/Open SpaceCenter                                                                                                                         800’           1,60
                                                                                                                                                                                                                Industrial Converted
                                                                                                                                                                                                               Park/Open
                                                                                                                                                                                                                Other Use
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Space     to
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     N
                                                                                                                      Remains in use
                                                                                                                                                                                                               Industrial Converted to
                                                                                                                                                                                                                Parking
                                                                                                                                                                                                               Other Use                                                                                                                             N
   Restaurant/
       ALTERNATIVE 1: Draper Park Extension
                                                                                                                                                                                                                Zoning change on station
                                                                                                                                                                                                               Parking
                                                                                                                                                                                                                area outside core sites
                                                                                                                                                                                                               Zoning change on station


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Reduced Size UTA
                                                                                                                                                                                                               area outside core sites



   Retail      Multifamily
               Residential     Example of two stories of residential over retail                                                                                                                             Example of a trail corridor alongside housing                                       Parking Lot
   Plaza                   PIONEER ROAD DETAIL



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    P


                                                                              P                    ALTERNATIVE 1 changes the diagonal parking to
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  New Stree
                                                                                                   parallel and adds bike lanes




                                                                                                  Pioneer Road                                                                                                   TRAX
                                                                                                                                                                                                             3-5 Story                          3-5 Story Multifamily Residential

Street
                                                                                                     IFA Mill
                                                                                                    Remains in use                                                                                          Multifamily
                                                                 Restaurant/
                                                                 Retail            Multifamily                                                                      Reduced Size UTA
                                                                                   Residential                                                                         Parking Lot
         Townhomes               New Park                        Plaza                                                                                          Draper Station Area Alternative 1                                                                          P
                                                                                                                                                                             LOOKING WEST
                                                                                                                                                                              1500’ in total                      P
                                                                                                                                                                                   P


                                                                                                                                                                                               New Street                       Trail Corridor                                                12300 South
                                                                                         P



                  New Street                   Trail New Street                                  Pioneer Road                                            TRAX
                                                                                                                     Draper Station Area Alternative 1
                                                                                                                                  LOOKING WEST
                                                                                                                                   1500’ in total




         Examples of new community town center park and plaza spaces                                                                                                                                  Example of 3 - 5 story multifamily residential, built on a slope



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Draper Town Center Station Area Plan                                             21
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 DRAPE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      CEN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 TOWN CENT
         Alternative 2: Pioneer Road Main Street
         This alternative focused on the transformation of Pioneer Road into a walkable                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Station Area P
         Main Street. It established a town center with retail, restaurants, and plazas                                                                                                                                                                                     Shared
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Shared
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Station
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Station
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Upzoneto
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Upzone    to
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Multifamily
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ALTERNATIVE 2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ALTERNATIVE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Pioneer Main
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Main Stre
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Str
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Parking                   Multifamily
         along Pioneer Road. It included a medium-sized community center fronting
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Parking
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Structure
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Structure
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Mixeduse
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Mixed   use
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Pioneer
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     33--55stories
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           stories
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  CITY PROPERTY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        PROPERTY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 CITY
         onto Pioneer Road, single family attached transition to the south, a trail/open                                                                                                                                                                                                             Multifamily/
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Multifamily/
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 •• Town               created wit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Town center
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             center created
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      restaurants, plazas
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      plazas along
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  wit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                alon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Rail/canal                                                                                                   restaurants,
         space corridor connecting the Draper Park area to the envisioned community
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Rail/canal                                    Mixeduse
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             use
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            trail                                     Mixed                                                       •   Includes   a  medium      com
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           trail
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       55story
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         story                                                   • Includes a medium comm
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         corridor
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         corridor                                                                                                     center fronting
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               fronting onto
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          onto Pion
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Pio
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     center
         center. On the UTA site, 5-story multifamily buildings terraced down the hill,                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          •• Single
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Single family
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              family attached
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       attached tr   tr
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  •   Trail/open    space
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 • Trail/open space corrido corrido
         oriented around a central community park space. Parkstone was buffered                                                                                                                                                                  Adaptively
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Adaptively
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    reused
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   reused
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Park//
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Park
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Trail
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     connecting                Park
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Draper Park
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      connecting Draper
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Trail                                                          community center
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     center
         by an attached single-family neighborhood, including a street connection;                                                                                                                                                                   shed
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     shed
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  buildings
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  buildings
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Corridor Townhomes
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Corridor Townhomeswith
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Parkstone
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           with
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Parkstonestreet
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         street
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     community
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  UTA/IFA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 UTA/IFA
         IFA remained but the old store was adaptively reused. Station parking was                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               •• 5-story
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      5-story multifamily
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                multifamily build
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                build
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 connection
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 connection
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  (willneed
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       needtotowork
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                workout
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      out
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Adaptivelyreused
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Adaptively reusedold IFAstore
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          oldIFA store                                                           (will
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  linkto
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 link  toprivate  street)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          privatestreet)                              terraced down
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  down the
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     terraced            the hill
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               hill

         integrated into new structure shared with residents.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    •• Central
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Central community
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 •• Parkstone
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                community park
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    buﬀered by
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Parkstone buﬀered
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                park
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                by aa
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Seriesof
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Series    communityplazas
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ofcommunity    plazasalong
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             alongPioneer
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  PioneerRoad
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Road
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Pioneer                                                                                                                       single family
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     single   family neighborho
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       neighborho
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Pioneer                                                                  1-2story
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               1-2 storyretail
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          retailand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                andoﬃce
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    oﬃce
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Road   Main
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      RoadMain                                                                          parkingfor
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Surfaceparking        retail/
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 forretail/
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      including   street   connect
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     including street connecti
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Surface
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Streetwith
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Street with                                                               communitycenter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               community     center                                               reuse of
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Adaptive reuse
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 •• Adaptive                  indus
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          of indust
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       walkable
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      walkable                 Existing
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Existing             Medium Park/
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Medium   Park/ Town-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Town-                                                               IFA remains
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 •• IFA   remains but      old store
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      but old    stor

                                                                                                                                             IFA Mill
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    re-design and
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   re-design and              CityHall
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Hall          Community Trail
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Trail homes
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 homes
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       upzoning
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              City               Community                                                                            adaptively reused
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     adaptively     reused
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      upzoning                                     Center
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Center
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 •• Station
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Station parking
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                parking integrate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          integrate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      structure shared
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     structure     shared with
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            with re re
                                                                                                                                         Remains in use                                                                      Multifamilyhousing
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Multifamily housing
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             (Apartments/Condos)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            (Apartments/Condos)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 PIONEER              CORRIDOR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ROAD CORRIDOR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  PIONEER ROAD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Townhomes
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Townhomes                                                                                                                            •• Pioneer
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Pioneer Road
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Road -- walkable
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         walkable
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     FamilyAttached)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             (SingleFamily
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            (Single        Attached)                                                                                                             •• Upzoning
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Upzoning to     promote in
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   to promote       in
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Retail/Restaurant
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Retail/Restaurant

                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Civic/CommunityCenter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Civic/Community Center                                                                                                                             800’
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               800’            1,6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               1,6
     Mixed Use:      Plaza                                                                                                                                                                                                  Park/Open Space
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Park/OpenSpace

                                                                                                                                                                                                                             IndustrialConverted
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Convertedto
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 to
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  TownhomesNN
      ALTERNATIVE         2: Pioneer Road Main Street
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Industrial


     Office over
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             OtherUse
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Other  Use
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Parking
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Parking


                                                  Plaza                                                                                                                                                                     Zoningchange
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Zoning changeon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            areaoutside
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           onstation
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 outsidecore
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              station
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         coresites
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              sites


     Retail/Restaurant
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            area


         Example of townhomes fronting onto a trail                                                                                                                        Example of townhomes                                                                                  Example of mixed-use building with retail



urface                                                                             PIONEER ROAD DETAIL



 g Lot                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 New Street                     New
                                              P                              Alternative 2 eliminates the center lane (except at
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      New Alley
                                                                             intersections and key accesses), adds buffered bike lanes
                                                                             and bus islands while the diagonal parking remains.                             New TRAX
                                                                                   Pioneer Road         IFA Mill
                                                                                                       Remains in use                                      Side Platform                                                    3-5 Story Multifamily Residential                          3-5 Story Mixed Use: Multifamily Residential over Retail
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Raised bike lanes

                                                         Mixed Use:      Plaza                                                                                           Townhomes
                                                         Office over
                        Townhomes                                                                                         Plaza
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           P                                                            P



                                                         Retail/Restaurant                                                                                                                                                                              P

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 New                      12300 South
                                           New Surface
                                                                                                                                                                                                          Trail Corridor/                                                        Alley
                                           Parking Lot                                                                                                                         New Street   New Alley
                                                                                                                                         New Alley                                                              Park
                                                  P                    P                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Draper Station Area Alternative 2
                                                                                                            New TRAX                                                                                                                                                                                                    Pinoeer Road at TRAX Station
          Trail Corridor                                                           Pioneer Road           Side Platform
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 LOOKING WEST
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    1750’ total




                                                                                                                                          Draper Station Area Alternative 2
                                                                                                                                                Pinoeer Road at TRAX Station
                                                                                                                                                         LOOKING WEST
                                                                                                                                                           1750’ total




                   Example of mixed use office over retail fronting onto a plaza      Example of a walkable Main Street                                                                      Example of a park/playground next to multifamily residential



     22 Draper Town Center Station Area Plan
     DRAPER    TOWN CENTER Station Area Plan
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   DRAP
       Alternative 3: IFA Redevelopment                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            TOWN C
       This alternative explored what a complete redevelopment of the IFA site would                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Station Ar
       look like. A Town Center was created along Pioneer Road at the redeveloped                                                                                                                                                                    Shared
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Station
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Upzone to                                                          ALTERNAT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ALTERNATI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Multifamily
       IFA site, although with the mill preserved as an adaptive reuse opportunity.                                                                                                                                                                  Parking
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Structure
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Mixed use
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  3 - 5 stories
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Pioneer
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      IFA     Main
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Redevelo
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       CITY PROPERTY
       The City site was focused on a large community center and a new additional                                                                                                                                    Rail/canal trail
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      CITY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      • Site
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            PROPERTY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       • Town     center crea
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               is focused   on
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Multifamily/                                                             restaurants,   plaz
       civic or employment use, but no housing. The UTA and IFA sites, as well as
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     corridor along
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Rail/canal
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       • community       cente
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         rail line trail                                            Mixed use
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Street runs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      5 story
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Includes a mediu
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Station      down hill to   Multifamily                                                            • New     Civic/Employ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Potentialcorridor
       the surrounding industrial area, were integrated together, including a street                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       center   fronting o
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   to                              tracks       3 - 5 story
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Parking                                                                                            •• Town
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              relocate                                                                                                                     SingleCenter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   family focu
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           atta
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       • redeveloped      IFA -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               station
       running down the hill and across the TRAX tracks. The concept included the                                                                                                                 Multifamily
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              platform
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Adaptively
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            reused
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Park /
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Trail/open space
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          includes
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           connecting supporti
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Drap
                                                                                                                                                                                                    5 story                                                                                                                                               retail/restaurant
       potential for a station relocation to the new Town Center focal area. Station                                                                                                            Upzone to allow
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             shed
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           buildings
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Park Trail
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    / Trail
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Corridor Townhomes with
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Corridor
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Parkstone street
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           community cente
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      • No housing on sit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       UTA/IFA
                                                                                                                                                                                              3 story residential/                                                                                                                                    UTA/IFA
       parking was integrated in a structure in one of the multifamily buildings. A                                                                                                                mixed use
                                                                                                                                                                                                       Adaptively reused old IFA store                                                  Repurposed
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  connection
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             (will need to work out
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       • 5-story multifam
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      • IFA/industrial zon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           terraced down th
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          IFA link
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Millto private street)                                     redeveloped, pre
       trail connection was made through a new park alongside Parkstone then                                                                                                               Community plaza surrounded
                                                                                                                                                                                               by retail/restaurant
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       • Central commun
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          adaptively reusin
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       • Parkstone buﬀer
       connected through the old station location.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    • Sites, as well as in
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Existing
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Seriesstation  location;
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    of community    plazas along Pioneer Road
                                                                                                                                                                                                             City Hall
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Pioneer                                                                  potential  for street/path                                       single family neig
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            1-2 story  retail and oﬃce                                    integrated togeth
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           connection if relocated                                         including street c

                                                                                  IFA Mill
                                                                                                                                                                                                               Road Main                                                                    Surface parking for retail/                                   running down hil
                                                                                                                                                                                                              Street with                                                                   community center                                           • Adaptive reuse o
                                                                                                                                                                                                                walkablesurface parking for                                                                                                           • Potential for stati
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Existing
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         community/civic uses
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Medium Park/ Town-                                                                      • IFA remains but o
                                                                                                                                                                                                             re-design and         City Hall                   Large
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Community New Civic,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Trail      Institutional or
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              homes                                                                       new town center
                                                                                                                                                                                                                upzoning                                     Community                                                                                     adaptively reuse
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Employment use                                                           • Station parking in
                                                                      Preserved as landmark
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Center
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Center                                                                                  • Station parking in
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          in one of the mul
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           structure shared
                                                                                                                                                                                                       Multifamilyhousing
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  housing
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      • Trail connection m
                                                                                                                                                                                                      Multifamily
                                                                                                                                                                                                       (Apartments/Condos)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       PIONEER    ROAD COR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          park alongside     Pa
                                                                                                                                                                                                      (Apartments/Condos)


                                    Multifamily Residential                                                                                                                                            Townhomes                                                                                                                                       • connecting
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Pioneer Road     -w
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        throu
                                                                                                                                                                                                      Townhomes
                                                                                                                                                                                                       (SingleFamily
                                                                                                                                                                                                      (Single FamilyAttached)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Attached)                                                                                                                         • Upzoning to prom


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                3 - 5 Story
                                                                                                                                                                                                      Retail/Restaurant


         Retail/
                                                                                                                                                                                                      Retail/Restaurant


                                        Building over                                                                                                                                                 Civic/CommunityCenter
                                                                                                                                                                                                      Civic/Community Center                                                                                                                                      800’
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  800’


       ALTERNATIVEPlaza 3: IFA Redevelopment
                                                                                                                                                                                                      Park/OpenSpace
                                                                                                                                                                                                                Space


nter   Restaurant
                                                                                                                                                                                                      Park/Open


                                            TRAX                                                                                                                                                       IndustrialConverted
                                                                                                                                                                                                      Industrial
                                                                                                                                                                                                      Other
                                                                                                                                                                                                      Parking
                                                                                                                                                                                                      Parking
                                                                                                                                                                                                             Use
                                                                                                                                                                                                       OtherUse
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Convertedto
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           to
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         N
                                                                                                                                                                                                      Zoningchange
                                                                                                                                                                                                      Zoning changeon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    onstation
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       station
                                                                                                                                                                                                      areaoutside
                                                                                                                                                                                                      area outsidecore
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  coresites
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       sites



                                                                                                                                           Example of multifamily residential building
                                                                           Example of a plaza and mixed use next to a rail station         spanning over rail tracks


                      PIONEER ROAD DETAIL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  P




                                                                                                               Retail/Restaurant
        Alternative 3 adds a planted median, parallel
        parking, and an on-street bike path


                  Pioneer Road                                                                             IFA Mill
                                                                                                                                                                           TRAX
                                                                                                       Preserved as landmark

                                                                                                                                 Multifamily Residential
                                                                               Retail/                                               Building over                                       3 - 5 Story Multifamily Residential
                                    New Community/Arts/Recreation Center     Restaurant       Plaza                                      TRAX                                                                                 latoT ’5731




                                                                                                                                                                                                                          P

                                                                                                                                                                                           P

         Surface
        Parking Lot                                                                                                    Retail/Restaurant
              P                        P




                      New Street                                                 Pioneer Road                                              TRAX                                                     New Street/                             12300 South
                                                                                                                                                                                                      Alley
                                                                                                                                                             latoT ’5731




                              Example of a performing
                              arts center




                                                                                 Example of an adaptively reused industrial site


       DRAPER TOWN CENTER Station Area Plan
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Draper Town Center Station Area Plan                                                        23
Public Engagement: Second Phase                                                    Survey
In May and June 2023, the Project Team and Stakeholder Committee                   The online survey was the way the team received the most feedback on the
undertook a second round of public engagement for the Station Area Plan,           alternative concepts. The survey was open from May 15 through June 5. It
focused on the three alternative concepts. The team hosted a second Open           asked respondents to rate the alternative concepts along with a series of
House, to present the Station Area Alternatives.                                   aspects of each alternative, such as housing, trails, and treatment of Draper
                                                                                   heritage. It included an open ended question for feedback on each alternative.
There were 58 people who signed in to the event. Each person received a set
of green and red dots to place on things throughout the displays they liked        The survey received 474 responses – these were combined in-person and
and did not like, respectively.                                                    online, though the vast majority were received online.
The team set up an online survey to receive feedback on the alternatives, and      Alternative ratings
the display boards featured a QR code linking to the survey. There were also
                                                                                   The survey asked respondents to rate the concepts on a scale of -2 (strongly
paper surveys available at the Open House.
                                                                                   dislike) to 2 (strongly like), with 0 as a mixed or neutral. Overall, the ratings
The team also had open-ended comment cards available as well.                      were low, with all three garnering an average rating below neutral. Of all three,
                                                                                   Alternative 1, which proposed the least change, scored the highest at -.06. The
                                                                                   top row of Figure 6 below shows these ratings.
                                                                                   However, the stronger takeaway from the ratings was that some aspects of
                                                                                   concepts (no matter the alternative) were much more popular than others.
                                                                                   The ratings for trails and connectivity, for example, were much more positive
                                                                                   than those for comfort with housing. Figure 6 also shows these comparisons.
                                                                                   This feedback emphasizes the concern about the change that more housing
                                                                                   will bring, with support for aspects like trails that will increase quality of life.
                                                                                   Alternative 1 was the most popular likely because it had the least housing and
                                                                                   least perceived negative impact in neighborhoods, while still including new
                                                                                   trails. The one exception was the concept's central feature - the highest rating
                                                                                   for this question was Alternative 2's Pioneer Road Main Street.




                                                                                   Overall rating
                                                                                   Concept's central feature

                                                                                   Preserving neighborhoods
                                                       Open House 2 displays
                                                       with feedback from the      Comfort with housing
                                                       public in the form of
                                                       green dots (things people   Trails & connectivity
                                                       supported) and red
                                                       dots (things people had
                                                       concerns about).            Figure 6: Average ratings of alternative concepts by survey respondents for the overall
                                                                                   rating and for aspects of the alternatives.




24 Draper Town Center Station Area Plan
Themes of open ended responses                                                      Preferred Concept development
Analysis of open-ended survey responses built on the alternative concept            The team brought together all the feedback it had received from the public
ratings questions revealed areas of concern. As Figure 7 shows below,               and the Stakeholder Committee, as well as the technical evaluation, HB 462
concerns included more congestion, the sentiment that multifamily housing           requirements, and relevant station area planning best practices, to develop a
does not fit with Draper’s character (often characterized as rural); roads can’t    Draft Preferred Concept.
handle traffic; and opposition to Draper changing.
                                                                                    The concept integrated aspects of all three alternatives. At its core was the
However, the open ended feedback showed support for many of the ideas               Pioneer Road Main Street idea from Alternative 2, with the Draper Park
in the concepts. These ideas that had support included a walkable Pioneer           extension from Alternative 1 and the IFA redevelopment/adaptive reuse from
Road Main Street; trail connectivity; a community center; and restaurants and       Alternative 3. It included the popular trail links form a range of alternatives as
retail. Pushing back on the preference for Alternative 1 in the ratings, the open   well as both upzoning and neighborhood transition concepts from a range
ended responses included the recognition that Alternative 1 would have a            of alternatives as well. These combined aspects of the Preferred Concept
limited positive impact – and the benefits of creating a bigger vision.             became the Plan Principles summarized in the Plan Overview.
In addition, the responses included thoughts raised by the public to consider       The team presented this draft concept to the Stakeholder Committee in a June
now or in implementation phase:                                                     2023 meeting. The Committee expressed unanimous support for the concept
•   Desire for opportunities for homeownership in the transit-oriented              with some refinements. The project team began fleshing out the concept into
    community.                                                                      an Illustrative Plan and Implementation Plan.

•   Affordability of housing is important.
•   How do we pay for the improvements?
•   What is this area versus The Point? How do we create a separate identity/
    brand?




Figure 7: Most frequent themes of open-ended responses to Phase 2 survey.

                                                                                                                        Draper Town Center Station Area Plan        25
PLAN OVERVIEW
The Draper Town Center Station Area Plan's Preferred Concept represents            Illustrative Concept
the Stakeholder Committee's recommended way to achieve the station Area
Goals (see page 25). The following pages summarize the concept through its         The Illustrative Concept presents a high-level vision of the Preferred Concept
10 Plan Principles and its Illustrative Concept, which together form the Station   developed by the Stakeholder Committee and the Project Team. It is the result
Area Vision. The Plan Elements flesh out the Plan in more detail principle by      of several months of committee visioning, field work, public engagement,
principle. Finally, the Plan includes an Implementation Plan.                      discussions, research and analysis, brainstorming, consideration of tradeoffs,
                                                                                   and decision making. The Illustrative Concept is a requirement of the Utah
Plan Principles                                                                    State Station Area Planning law.
The Plan Principles convey the key points of agreement and priorities for          The Draper Town Center Station Area Plan Illustrative Concept is shown
the Station Area. While the Illustrative Plan is the preferred way to achieve      at right in Figure 8. It uses a simple graphic language of land use "bubbles"
these principles, in the future if one or more aspects of the Illustrative Plan    and linework to show the envisioned future land uses and street/trail/
is infeasible or if conditions change, decisionmakers and stakeholders can         transportation improvements.
return to the Plan Principles to develop another site or network configuration
                                                                                   There are several levels of improvements shown on the Illustrative Concept:
to achieve the same idea.
                                                                                   •   Specific land uses on the two core sites of the Draper City Fitzgerald Site
The Plan Principles are:
                                                                                       and the UTA property.
1. A walkable, active Main Street on Pioneer Road.                                 •   Other areas recommended for upzoning to a Transit Oriented Community
2. A nexus of trail connections.                                                       (TOC) designation, including the IFA property and the area to the west of
                                                                                       the UTA site.
3. Mixed-use town center on City site with destination restaurants and retail,
community center and some housing, that is engaged with and connected to           •   A potential transition area between the TOC zoning area and the historic
Draper Park and other civic destinations.                                              downtown area to the west.

4. Significant residential density on UTA site in up-to-5-story buildings.         •   The historic downtown area at the west end of the Station Area, which will
                                                                                       remain under the existing Town Center zone, whose general parameters
5. Flexibility toward IFA with encouragement of future redevelopment.                  of scale and use will remain, but will be refined.
6. Improved TRAX station access.                                                   •   An area encompassing much of the shopping centers along 12300 South
                                                                                       to the east and north of the TOC area that should be included in the new
7. Rezoning of some areas around the station to allow and encourage transit-
                                                                                       TOC zone(s).
oriented development.
                                                                                   Note that much of the 1/2 mile Station Area does not have a designation
8. Preservation of the scale of Draper’s historic downtown, south and west of      in the Illustrative Concept. These are largely residential neighborhoods
the transit-oriented area.                                                         envisioned to remain as-is into the future.
9. Quality transitions to established residential neighborhoods and historic       The team estimates that the concept shown could yield approximately:
resources.
                                                                                   •   30 - 40 multifamily units, 20 - 30 townhomes and duplexes, and 30,000
10. Connectivity improvements throughout the station area.                             square feet of commercial space on the City site; and
                                                                                   •   450 - 500 multifamily units and 22,000 square feet of commercial on the
                                                                                       UTA site.



26 Draper Town Center Station Area Plan
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        DRAPER
      INDUSTRIAL REDEVELOPMENT
      •1   Mix of retail, oﬃce, middle housing,               •7                                                       Up-to-5-story multifamily buildings in
                                                                                                                       most of site
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   UTA SITE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          •13
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                PIONEER ROAD “MAIN STREET”
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Transformation of Pioneer
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Road to a “Main Street” with
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        TOWN CENTER
           and stacked condos up to 5 stories
      •2   Consider stepdowns along Pioneer
           Road
                                                              •8

                                                              •9
                                                                                                                       Mixed use with retail along 12300 South;
                                                                                                                       stepdown to 3 stories
                                                                                                                       Residential building step-down transition                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          •14
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 wide sidewalks, streetscape,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 frequent crossings
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 On-street multi-use path
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Station Area Plan
      •3   West side of 970 East up to 4 stories.
      •4   Plan for exibility with IFA: allow to
                                                              •
                                                              10
                                                                                                                       to east with open space buﬀer
                                                                                                                       Parking: Limited surface stalls and
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          •15    Encouragement of walkable
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 inll development on Pioneer
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Illustrative Concept
           function as-is but zone to encourage
           redevelopment                                                                                               shared structure spaces for UTA riders                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             LAND USES
                                                              11
                                                              •                                                        Potential street link to shopping center                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  COMMERCIAL CENTER                             Multifamily housing
      •5   Consider potential long-term new
                                                              •                                                        Central open space built around canal                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     REDEVELOPMENT                                 (Apartments/Condos)
           street links in redevelopment,                     12
                                                                                                                       trail                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              16     3-story building heights; Missing
           including across TRAX                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Retail/Restaurant
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 middle housing; but primarily
      •6   Preserve IFA Mill as adaptive reuse
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 commercial; Encourage walkable
           opportunity                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Civic/Community Center




                                                                             1000
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           17
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 commercial pad uses
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          16                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Park/Open Space


                                                                                  E.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  12300 S.                                                                                                       POTENTIAL FUTURE T.O.C.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          •17    Other shopping centers along                  Parking
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 12300 South may be considered
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           8                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     16                                                       STATION AREA SUBAREAS
                                                    27                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           in future for incorporation into
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         11
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 transit-oriented area.                         Concept for core site
                   12300 S.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           12                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 28
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Industrial redevelopment mixed use
                                                                                                                                       1                                                                                                                                                                                                                       7                                                                                      9                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            STATION IMPROVEMENTS
                                               3                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      10                                                                                                                                                 30
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           PARKSTONE                                                                       •26    New south side platform,                      Commercial center redevelopment
                                                                                    1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             expanded plaza, and access on                 mixed use
                                   900 E.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             5                                                                                         IFA 6
                              18                                                                                                                                                              4                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   west side of platform
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Mill TRAX 26                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Historic Town Center area
                                                                   2                                                                                                                                                                                              13                                                                                                       14
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 station                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    PIONEER RD.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                preservation and inll
                      PIONEER RD.                                                                                                 22                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              22     25
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           20
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      21                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Area for potential future consideration
                                            19          15    City                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      TRAIL NETWORK
                                                              Hall                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                23                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            of incorporation into TOC area
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                23                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         •27    Rail trail
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       24
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           •28    Canal trail
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      29
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              DRAPER CITY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ENTRY No. 10302940                                        (14.31')                                                                                                                                   N89°59'55"E 562.41'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          PUBLIC REALM IMPROVEMENTS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             BK:9549 PG:5295                                                                30.00' 30.00'                                              90.00'                            84.00'                        89.85'                                              88.01'                                                                 150.55'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           •29    Trail connecting Draper Park
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        53.45'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                122
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                S0°06'52"W 104.04'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         12487 S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  N0°06'52"E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                1060 EAST
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           S0°06'52"W 111.88'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       S0°02'15"W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      69.89'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       118                            119                            120                                               121
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 S0°06'52"W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             S2°33'23"W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         127.08'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0.36 acres
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     S0°02'15"W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    S0°02'15"W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   111.88'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               112.79'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       126.96'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              15682 sqft
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      127.02'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             139.58'                                                                               0.26 acres                       0.24 acres                     0.26 acres                                         0.24 acres
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  N85°02'54"E                                                                                                      11386 sqft                       10667 sqft                     11415 sqft                                         10406 sqft
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         '                                                  28-29-478-011
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                34.15'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      .55 "W                                             SALT LAKE COUNTY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   CV                                                                                                                                                                     110
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           N25




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    C10                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            138 '47                                                ENTRY No. 8429077
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    1097 E                                                    3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        117                                                                                       1069 E             1073 E                                         1083 E                                                             C4                                C5 E                                         °06
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           BK:8688 PG:2960
                                                   T.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              °08




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     12496 S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        145.72'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            60.00                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  S53




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  and City Hall
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      75.15'           84.00'                                          89.85'                                   36.07' C3                                                                                                                                                                                                                             NOTES:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          C2




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0.27 acres                                       '                                                                                                                                                                                                                     C1                                                                                         SURVEY No. S02-07-0308
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         123
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 '02




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Open space
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      11691 sqft                                                                                 N89°57'45"W 285.07'                                                                                                                                                                    7                                                                                                                                                              1. #5 X 24" REBAR & CAP (FOCUS E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               C13




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      12500 SOUTH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   60.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    "W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           SET IN TOP BACK OF CURB AT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       00'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       1060 E                                                      S89°57'45"E 299.92'                                                                                                                              0.25 acres
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      12501 S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           C1




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         C6




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       4"E                                                                             12500 S                                                                                                         1100 E                                                                                       11088 sqft                                                                                                                             AT FRONT LOT CORNERS.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          C2




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   60.00
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      124




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                °51'1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               1




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      (PUBLIC- 60' WIDE)                                                              12500 S                                                                                                                                                                                                                          2. PARCEL A IS HEREBY DEDICAT




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           31
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           N65          7'                C1                                                                                                                                                                                                                          60.
                                            FORT S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       S89°57'45"E 294.16'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         .53




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          '




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                4
                                                                                            JEFFERY J. & KERI L.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   94.3          106                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   00'                                                                                                                                                             3. LOTS 134 - 144 SHALL HAVE NO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     C20




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         2E                                                              58.23'                     88.00'            76.00'                                                 71.93'             C2                                                                                106.48'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           '




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     C15                                                                                                                                             3                                                                                                                                                                                                                 4. LOT 101 AND 102 SHALL HAVE N
                                                                                                28-29-377-023




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      1084 E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          116
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   1072 E                                                                 1094 E                                                                                                S89°59'55"W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  C16
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              C7
                                                                                                  BRYANT




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       5. BASEMENT ELEVATION SHAL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 N2
                                                                                                    LOT 1




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                1068 E                                                                                                                     CV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0.31 acres
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               115                                 114                           113                                            112                                                                                      C8
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   124                                                                                                                                     MEASURED GROUNDWATER E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  8°3




                                                                       9




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           •30    Trail linking Canal Trail with
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    N0°02'15"E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            N4°42'46"E




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      13643 sqft
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  N0°02'15"E




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  S0°02'15"W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           PROJECT NO. 00145-029 DATE M
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     1'0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         88.00'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     120.00'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  0.23 acres
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             12517 S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                115.95'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.26 acres                           0.24 acres                   0.21 acres                                      0.24 acres
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              70.20'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   120.00'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         12518 S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    120.00'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  10082 sqft                                                                                                                           6. LOTS 101, AND 122-133 HAVE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       2"W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               10387 sqft
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        105.01'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             N0°00'05"W 210.00'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             11142 sqft                           10560 sqft                   9120 sqft
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           REAR YARD RETENTION SYSTE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   S0°35'07"E 595.25'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 N89°59'55"E                                                                                                                               OWNER. LOTS 101 REQUIRE 650
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             127




                                                                                                                                                  PHASE 2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Plaza
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   115.70'                                                                                                                                 270 SQUARE FEET OF RETENTIO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               .65




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                65.46'                                                        98.54'                               88.00'                           76.00'                                    S89°57'45"E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       7. THERE ARE PRIVATE DRAINAG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   '




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         N89°57'45"W 328.00'                                                                                     87.00'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    125                                                                                                                                    YARD DRAINAGE EASEMENTS
                                                                                             TROY BLUNDELL &
                                                                                             SANDRA J. CULVER




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      12537 S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           OWNED AND MAINTAINED BY T
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             96.08'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         96.09'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  0.26 acres
                                                                                                28-29-377-024




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Town Center and open space
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                111
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     255.03'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  11164 sqft                                                   12.0'                                                                   8. SHALLOW SEWER DEPTHS! CO
                                                                                                    LOT 2




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              12542 S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           PRIVATE REAR                                                                    FOUNDATION ELEVATION TO P
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             104.99'



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      S0°00'05"E 555.03'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               0.24 acres                                                                                                                                                 YARD RETENTION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   116.68'                                                                                                                                 WITH A BASEMENT MAY NOT H
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    120.00'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               10392 sqft                                                                                                                                                    EASEMENT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       N0°00'05"W 495.21'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               N0°00'05"W 300.00'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 S89°59'55"W                                                                                                                           9. NOTICE TO PROPERTY OWNER
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                CV
                                                                            KIMBERLY K. BELL




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           AND MAINTAIN STREET TREES
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    126



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        F UT U R E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         1093 E                                                                                                                                                                 28-29-452-028




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Streetscape
                                                                              MICHAEL D. &




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           THE APPROVED STREET TREE
                                                                               28-29-377-037




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          12551 S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            84.00'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   C24                                                                                                                                                      SALT LAKE COUNTY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          84.00'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   0.23 acres
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ENTRY No. 10853079                                                            DEVELOPMENT OFFICE OF DRA
                                                                                   LOT 3




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     S89°57'45"E 71.99'                                                                                            9837 sqft
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              BK:9786 PG:1214                                                          10. TEMPORARY TURN AROUND
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 S89°57'45"E 117.00'                                                                                                                                      SURVEY No. S2009-12-0550




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  buﬀer for Parkstone area
                                                                                                                                        EASEMENT DETAIL                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            117.54'                                                                                                                                 RECORDING OF PHASE 2 AND C
                                                                                                                                           SEE PAGE 2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     12555 SOUTH                                                                                            S89°59'55"W                                                                                                                           11. FLOODPLAIN IS OUTSIDE OF SU
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      S89°57'45"E 72.01'
                                                                        WATER AND P.I.                                                                                                               (C40)                                 TEMPORARY TURNAROUND                                                                                                                                                                                                                    C19
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    127
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             12563 S




                                                                       MENT IN FAVOR OF                                                                                                                                                           EASEMENT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              78.00'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          78.00'




                                                                       RRIGATION COMPANY                                                                                                                                                     TO BE VACATED WITH                                                                                                                                                                    1100 E                                     1092 E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   0.21 acres
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  12555 S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     BAINBRIDGE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             CV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  (PUBLIC- 60' WIDE)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         RECORDING OF BAINBRIDGE PH 2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              9199 sqft
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                110
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     1100 EAST




                                                                                                                                                                                    (25.00')                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       118.33'
                                                                       EAST




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Trail
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           105.01'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    120.00'




                                                                                                                                                    (C42)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0.24 acres
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              N0°00'05"W 210.00'




                                                                       98.95'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  10392 sqft
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 S89°59'55"W                                                 N0°35'07"W
                                                                                                                             N89°59'55"E 216.23'                                                                           (C41)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              S0°00'05"E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     12572 S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    1.75'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    128
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          50.33'




                                                                                                                                      158.38'                                      30.00' 30.00'                                              39.03'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       12581 S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 N89°51'01"E 128.27'                                                                             N89°59'55"E 227.14'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 42.68'
                                                                                                                                                                                                    L3




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   0.25 acres
                                                                                                                                      102
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             92.00'
                                                                                                                                                                         L4




                                                                                                  12600  S.                                                                                                                                                                                                          S89°57'45"E 503.57'                                                                                                                                             87.00'                                                                                        10920 sqft                                              92.00'                             36.27'             47.75'                        88.00'                                            91.39'
                                                                                                                                                                                30.00'
                                                                                                   1.00'
                                                                                                                            C35




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     87.57'                       84.00'                             76.00'                                                            92.00'                     76.00'                         88.00'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      41.67'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               N89°57'45"W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          S0°02'09"W 132.02'




                                                                                                                                     0.29 acres                                                           30.00'
                                                                                                                                                         12584 S




                                                                                                           C39
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      300.00'




                                                                                                                                     12435 sqft                                                                                  3.65'
                                                                                                                                                                         C36
                                                                                                                       8




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     S UB D I V I S I O N
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   118.82'
                                                                                                                                                                                                          C32
                                                                                                                      C3




                                                                                                                                                                                     30.00'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   N0°02'15"E




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          130                                      131                                        132
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     S0°02'15"W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      S0°02'15"W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    N0°02'15"E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      C31




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             N0°02'15"E




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 S89°59'55"W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             S0°02'15"W




                                                                                                                                                11.65'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      103                           104                             105                                                        106                              107                            108                                              109
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    120.00'
                                                                       N4°30'00"E 139.35'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       132.32'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    S0°02'15"W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               104.99'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        134.28'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 N0°02'15"E




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    S0°02'15"W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             133
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     120.00'




                                                                                                                                                                                                          30.00'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              120.00'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  N0°02'15"E




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               134.22'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             12592 S




                                                                                                           C37                         N89°59'55"E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      120.00'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  120.00'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      134.28'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    129                                                                                           0.26 acres                              0.27 acres
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        157.60'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0.28 acres
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            12587 S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   120.00'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                74.93'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  0.26 acres                      0.23 acres                     0.21 acres                                                   0.25 acres                       0.21 acres                  0.24 acres                                          0.24 acres
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             12597 S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          90.00'




                                                                                                       S39°31'39"E                        116.52'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       12160 sqft                                11207 sqft                              11814 sqft                                        0.28 acres
                                                                                                                                                                 30.70'


                                                                                                                                                                                          L2



                                                                                                                                                                                                                  42.35'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  11213 sqft                      10080 sqft                     9120 sqft                                                    11040 sqft                       9120 sqft                   10560 sqft                                          10397 sqft
                                                                                                                                                                  L1




                                                                                                             29.69'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               0.24 acres                                                                                                                                                                                12241 sqft
                                                                                       138.35'




                                                                                                                           101                                                                                                       CV




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                New street
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      CV                                                                                          10638 sqft




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     1300 E.
                                                                                                                                                                          30.00'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  10.25'
                                                                                                                                                    12598 S




                                                                                                                                                                                                     30.00'                     C22                                1047 E                            1053 E                                                     1063 E                            1073 E                                                                                                                                                                         CV                                                                                                                                                                                       1149 E
                                                                                                                        0.50 acres                                                                                                         1037 E                                                                                                                                                                               1081 E                                         1091 E                                                                                                 1111 E                                              1123 E                          1131 E                                               1143 E                                 C25
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  S0°36'00"W 330.44'




                                                                                                                                             C34                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               C9
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               C18
                                                                                                                                                                                                    C33

                                                                                                                                                                                                                 C3




                                                                                                                        21902 sqft                                                                                                    86.25'                        84.00'                               76.00'          92.00'                                                                 76.00'                         88.00'                                          72.07'                                                                                                103.76'                                               92.00'                       84.00'                                                88.00'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        N89°57'45"W 574.32'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  N89°57'45"W 378.24'                                                                                                 C26
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               12610 SOUTH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         30.00'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       1030 E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      60.0




                                                                                                                       210.80'                                           30.00'                              12.91'                    12610 S                                                                                                                         666.83'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          436.13'                                                                                                                                                       0'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      S89°57'45"E1102.96'                                  1100 E                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      60.0
                                                                                                                WEST 210.80'                                                                                       146.91'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  30.00'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               (PUBLIC- 60' WIDE)                                                                         12610 S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         CV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 C2




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            S89°57'45"E1057.94'
                                                                                                                                                                               N0°00'00"E 159.82'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   7




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        92.63'                        91.00'                                         94.00'                                                 98.00'                             94.00'                                                90.00'                          84.00'             84.00'                                                                         95.06'                                                      84.00'                                     76.00'                           75.26'                 C1              1150 E
                                                                                                                                                         NORTH 142.90'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             1
                                                                                                                                                                                                     (PUBLIC- 60' WIDE)

                                                                                                                                                                                                                       9




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       1036 E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     C2




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        1048 E                                        1058 E                                                 1068 E                              1076 E                                              1086 E                            1098 E            1106 E                                                                          1118 E                                                     1126 E                                  1138 E                          1146 E                                    12610 S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     S0°02'15"W
                                                                                                                                                                         1030 EAST




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   CV
                                                                                                                                                                                                             12627 S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            N0°02'15"E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       N0°02'15"E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       122.44'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Driveway
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          S0°34'56"W 120.67'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     N0°02'15"E




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         136.28'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        122.38'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      144                                            143                                                   142                                 141                                          140                                          139                                                            138
                                                                                                                                                                                                       N0°00'00"E




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         S0°02'15"W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           137                                                       136                                    135                                   134
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                N0°02'15"E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          N0°02'15"E




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      122.12'




                                                                                                                        28-29-201-002
                                                                                                                                                                                                         92.50'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        S0°34'56"W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           122.07'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                    PARCEL A
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    N0°02'15"E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 122.25'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           122.32'




                                                                                                                      ROBERT BAKKER
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  N0°02'15"E




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          N0°02'15"E




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    0.26 acres                                 0.26 acres                                                0.28 acres                          0.26 acres                               0.25 acres                                    0.24 acres                                                        0.24 acres
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          120.98'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 136.23'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   122.19'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0.28 acres                                                0.26 acres                              0.24 acres                            0.28 acres
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           122.01'




                                                                                                                     ENTRY No. 13545893                                                                                                                             11139 sqft                                 11501 sqft                                                11984 sqft                          11488 sqft                               10994 sqft                                    10256 sqft                                                        10251 sqft
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          N0°02'15"E




                                                                                                                      BK:11106 PG:5727                                                                                     CV 0.30 acres                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 12132 sqft                                                11445 sqft                              10351 sqft                            12157 sqft
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       136.18'




                                                                                                                   SURVEY No. 2004-12-0929                                                                                    13082 sqft                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0.73'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  12628 S




                                                                                                                                                                         10.64'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           C28                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         S78°37'34"E
                                                                                                                                                                                                    58.36                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          C12       51.28'
                                                                                                                                                                                                             '                             92.56'                     91.00'                                         94.00'                                                98.00'                    94.00'                                      90.00'                                                  84.00'                                                           84.00'                                                                                                                                                                                                   21.00'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                MANFIELD WY.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              812.76'                   S89°59'55"W 727.56'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        84.00'                                     76.00'                              89.01'                          30.00'
                                                                                                                     12650 SOUTH STREET   WEST                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  S89°59'55"W 1112.77'
                                                                                                                   (60' WIDE PUBLIC ROAD) 20 00'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                AREA TO BE DEDICATED TO                                                                                                                                                        12650 SOUTH STREET                                                                                                                          CARRAWAY LANE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 N70°00'00"W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Potential future trail
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                connection
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   HOUSING AFFORDABILITY                        Potential future street
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          STRATEGIES                            connection
                                                                         CITY FITZGERALD SITE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              •      Inclusion of signicant
            HISTORIC TOWN CENTER
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  percentage of aﬀordable units
     •18   Historic downtown continues              •20      Mixed use: destination retail/restaurant with                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        in new multifamily projects
           on current preservation and                       residential / oﬃce above, up to 3 stories                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     •      Preservation of existing                              800’              1,600’
           inll direction                          •21      Medium-size community / arts center                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  aﬀordable housing stock
     •19   Rened Town Center Zone
           that encourages up-to-3-story
                                                    •22
                                                    •23
                                                             Series of community plazas along Pioneer Road
                                                             Structured and/or tuck under parking
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           •      Workforce housing in City
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Town Center development                   N
           walkable inll development               •24      Townhomes and duplexes: Deed-restricted                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       •31    Inclusion of up to 27 accessory
                                                             workforce housing                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    dwelling units (ADUs) in new
                                                    •25      Draper Park extension                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Bainbridge development



Figure 8: Draper Town Center Station Area Plan Illustrative Concept.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Draper Town Center Station Area Plan                 27
                      corridor
Land use designations
These land use designations and colors apply to the Illustrative Concept and the model images throughout this section of the Plan.


Multifamily residential                                                                 Civic
        Apartments or condominiums of a range of sizes in multi-story buildings, with            Civic uses include City government and public facilities like the library, senior
        parking included in lower-level podiums.                                                 center, and desired community center.




Townhomes, Duplexes, and other Middle Housing                                           Office/Employment                              Parking
        Attached single-family homes, often serving as a transition between more                Office uses are not an emphasis in             New parking in the Station Area is
        intensive areas of the Station Area and surrounding areas.                              the Station Area but could work in             envisioned to be structured and
                                                                                                some locations like along 12300 S.             often shared among uses.




Commercial
        While the Plan envisions that most new commercial be located in mixed use
                                                                                        Open Space
        buildings, the Station Area has potential for some stand-alone commercial in             Open space in the Station Area covers a range of types of uses, from large
        new walkable or adaptive reuse formats. Desired commercial uses include                  parks like Draper Park and smaller pocket parks to greenway trail corridors.
        restaurants, local shops, small groceries, and services.


                                                                                                                              IFA
                                                                                                                              Mill
Multifamily with Ground Floor Retail (Mixed Use)
                                                                                        Plazas
        Along Pioneer Road or 12300 South, or in other select circumstances, the
        Plan envisions the ground floor of multifamily residential buildings being               Plazas will be essential to the Station Area. These are generally hardscaped
        occupied by walkable commercial uses. In some cases upper floors of these                areas of different size offering programmed and non-programmed space and
        mixed use buildings may be occupied by offices.
                                                                         City                    activated by land uses around them.


                                                                         Hall

28 Draper Town Center Station Area Plan
Residential heights and potential density ranges
                                                                                                                                        Four-Story with Separate Parking Structure
                                     P

Residential density for the housing products envisioned for the Draper Town
                                                                                                                                                                         P




Center Station Area vary greatly and depend on a range of factors beyond the
                                                                                                                                        Multi-family homes with separated or wrapped around parking structure. This
scope of this Plan - such as unit size, site configuration, parking provision and
                                                                                                                                        building height could alternately have surface and tuck-under parking.
                                                                                                                                                                         P


configuration, open space and amenity provision, and fire safety.
However the following provides estimated ranges for given product types
within the Plan's envisioned heights, which include assumptions about parking                                                                                                         P



configuration. All of these products are intended to face and generally activate
                                     P



                                                                                                                                        Estimated density range: 35 to 50 dwelling units per net acre
                            P

a street. Generally, Transit-Oriented Communities require higher density                                                                                                              P

housing - for example a Utah Housing and Transit Reinvestment Zone (HTRZ)
requires an average of 50 units per acre in the residential portion of the zone.
                                                                                                                                        Five-Story with Separate Parking Structure
Two-to-Three-Story Townhomes or Duplexes                                                                                                Multi-family homes with separated or wrapped around parking structure.
                                                                                                                                                                                      P

Attached single-family homes with parking provided for each unit off a rear
                                     P



alley.
                                                                                                                                                                                      P




                                                                                                                                        Estimated density range: 50 to 80 dwelling units per net acre
Estimated density range: 12 to 25 dwelling units per net acre

Three-Story Street-Facing Walk-Up    P
                                                                                                                                        Five-Story with Podium Parking Structure
Multi-family homes with surface parking in the rear and some parking "tucked                                                            Multi-family homes built on top of a parking podium.
under" the rear of the buildings.

                                                                                                                                                                         P




Typical density: 20 to 35 dwelling units per net acre                                                                                   Estimated density range: 80 to 100 dwelling units per net acre

Site cross section
The following diagram shows a potential cross section of the envisioned uses and heights in the center of the station area, looking west. A note on heights in the                    P



station area: Because of the steep slopes throughout the area, heights regulation will need to determine how best to "step down" a building's heights down a hill,
to stay at or below the maximum heights allowed.
                                                                                                                                                                                                            Up-to-5 Story Mixed Use:
                                                                                                                                                                                                        Multifamily Residential over Retail
                                                                         IFA Mill
                                                                                                                                              Up-to-5 Story Multifamily Residential
                                    Mixed Use:
                                    Residential over  Plaza Trail                                                                                                                     P
                                    Retail/Restaurant
              Duplexes                                                                        Plaza
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       P


                                                                                                                                                                                                P

                         New Structured                                                                                                                                                                        New                   12300 South
                            Parking                                                                                                            P
                                                                                                                                                                 Trail Corridor/                               Alley
                                P
                                                                                                      New                                                              Park
                                                                            New TRAX                  Street
Trail Corridor/                                          Pioneer Road   South Side Platform
 Open Space
                                                                                                         Draper Station Area Alternative 2



                                                                                                                                                                                          Draper Town Center Station Area Plan                 29
                                                                                                               Pinoeer Road at TRAX Station
                                                                                                                        LOOKING WEST
                                                                                                                          1750’ total
Housing Affordability Strategies
Housing affordability is a key goal of the Utah H.B. 462 Station Area Plan law.       •   Include accessory dwelling units (ADUs) in new developments, such as the
The following are strategies to increase the affordability of housing within the          up to 27 detached ADUs included in the future Bainbridge Subdivision.
station area.                                                                         •   Preserve existing affordable/moderate income housing stock in the
The Draper General Plan identifies a series of Utah State strategies to achieve           Station Area.
moderate income housing:                                                              •   The City and UTA should consider including one or more regulated
      •   F - Zone or rezone for higher density or moderate income residential            affordable housing project, in which apartments are reserved for
          development in commercial or mixed-use zones near major transit                 households at 60 percent of AMI, typically for a 30 to 60-year period.
          investment corridors, commercial centers, or employment centers;            •   As part of the envisioned mixed use town center on the City’s Fitzgerald
      •   G - Encourage higher density or moderate income residential                     site, the City should consider requiring future developers to build some
          development near major transit investment corridors.                            townhomes, duplexes, or other middle housing, which can be market
                                                                                          rate. This housing is often affordable to households at 80 to 120 percent
      •   J - Implement zoning incentives for moderate income units in new
                                                                                          of AMI, and can also be characterized as housing for the City's moderate
          developments;
                                                                                          income workforce.
      •   E - Create or allow for, and reduce regulations related to, accessory
                                                                                      •   The City should seek to complete one or more moderate income model or
          dwelling units in residential zones.
                                                                                          pilot projects (e.g., townhomes attainable to 80 percent AMI households)
      •   W - Develop and adopt a station area plan in accordance with [Utah              in the Station Area in order to learn about moderate income housing
          State Code] Section 10-9a403.1; and                                             and demonstrate that it can serve a range of households and Draper
      •   O - Apply for or partner with an entity that applies for state or federal       community members, including young families and seniors. Study one or
          funds or tax incentives to promote the construction of moderate                 more specific sites and ensure that regulations are streamlined to allow
          income housing, an entity that applies for programs offered by the              this housing type. Consider “pre approving” townhome/moderate income
          Utah Housing Corporation within that agency's funding capacity, an              projects that meet certain criteria.
          entity that applies for affordable housing programs administered            •   Study ways to encourage moderate income senior housing in the
          by the Department of Workforce Services, an entity that applies for             community, given Draper’s demographics.
          affordable housing programs administered by an association of
                                                                                      •   Because some transit-oriented development and senior households have
          governments established by an interlocal agreement under [Utah
                                                                                          less impact on certain city/public infrastructure components (particularly
          State Code] Title 11, Chapter 13, Interlocal Cooperation Act, an entity
                                                                                          roadways as they have fewer cars, but also sometimes water, sewer,
          that applies for services provided by a public housing authority to
                                                                                          stormwater, and schools), evaluate ways to incentivize TOD and senior
          preserve and create moderate income housing, or any other entity
                                                                                          housing, for example by charging these development types lower fees/
          that applies for programs or services that promote the construction
                                                                                          impact fees/transportation impact fees.
          or preservation of moderate income housing.
The Station Area Plan looked at all the potential State strategies from the Utah
State Code and identified those that the City has adopted/selected. Many of
these strategies relate directly to the Station Area Plan and the sites within it
offer opportunities to achieve these strategies. With that said, the following
are the Plan's recommendations for housing affordability in accordance with
the MIHR, the H.B. 462 goals, and the Station Area Goals.
•     Increasing heights and densities throughout the Station Area Plan area
      will enable more apartments, townhomes and other unit types that are
      generally more affordable.



    30 Draper Town Center Station Area Plan
PLAN ELEMENTS
The following sections summarize Plan Elements corresponding to the 10 Plan Principles. Some of these Elements address the Station Area core sites, where
the Plan sets out a defined land use concept for each; others address outlying areas of the Station Area where policies and investments are proposed to allow
property owners to redevelop their properties if they choose. The diagram below shows one potential way these areas could be transformed to achieve the
Principles and Illustrative Concept.




1 A walkable, active Main                                                                                       Significant residential          5 Flexibility toward IFA with
                                  2 A nexus of trail                   3 Mixed-use town                     4
                                                                                                                density on UTA site in up-          encouragement of future
    Street on Pioneer Road.           connections.                       center on City site.
                                                                                                                to-5-story buildings.               redevelopment.

                                                         8

                                                                                                                                   7
                                                                                            2           7                                    OUTLYING AREAS



                                                                                                                                                               7
                                      3
                      STATION AREA CORE SITES                5                                      4



                                                                                                                       2
                                                                                                                                                                     7
             10                                 1                2 6                            9
                  3                                 10
         9                        3
                                           10


                                                                                                                                   2
     2




6   Improved TRAX         7   Rezoning of some areas                    8 Preservation of the scale of                      9 Quality transitions to      10       Connectivity
    station access.           around the station to allow                 Draper’s historic downtown, south                   established residential              improvements
                              and encourage transit-                      and west of the transit-oriented                    neighborhoods and                    throughout the
                              oriented community.                         area, including encouragement of                    historic resources.                  station area.
                                                                          compatible new development.
                                                                                                                                       Draper Town Center Station Area Plan    31
   1 A WALKABLE, ACTIVE MAIN STREET ON PIONEER ROAD.
The transformation of Pioneer Road into a vibrant, active, walkable Main             On-street multi-use trail
Street is the largest point of agreement among stakeholders.
                                                                                     The second major street element of a transformed Pioneer Road Main Street
Pioneer Road is a thread connecting many different neighborhoods and
                                                                                     will be a multi-use pathway for people walking, jogging, riding bikes, rolling in
districts, and core sites of the Station Area, and provides a "front door" to the
                                                                                     wheelchairs, as well as those riding scooters, skates, or skateboards. This trail
station itself. Within the Station Area, Pioneer Road currently provides some
                                                                                     will run on the south side of Pioneer Road and is envisioned to be in addition
stretches of walkable Main Street character and active uses, with buildings like
                                                                                     to a sidewalk, much like the new "9-Line" trail in Salt Lake City, which runs
City Hall and new projects like Draper Cove. But there are other stretches with
                                                                                     though walkable business districts like is planned for the Draper Town Center.
surface parking lots and vacant lots, and the street itself could be improved by
more pedestrian space, bike facilities, trees and other streetscape elements,
and focal points of public space.
This transformation, if done right, will entail several tradeoffs - trading slower
driving for a better walking, biking, and transit environment top among them.
                                                                                                                                                                            New 9-Line trail in
But if successful, this will be the single most transformative element of the
                                                                                                                                                                            Salt Lake City running
Station Area Plan.                                                                                                                                                          through a walkable
                                                                                                                                                                            business district.
Active uses
The Plan envisions active ground floor uses throughout the length of Pioneer
Road from the beginning of the historic downtown Draper area around 700
East through the Town Center TRAX Station. These active uses will be a mix
of adaptive reuses of historic buildings like the Park School and Day House;
Civic destinations like City Hall, and the envisioned community center; small
retail uses like are found at Draper Cove; and inviting restaurants like The
Charleston and Montauk Bistro.
All these uses will need to be built in a way that engages the street for people
on foot. There are appropriate ways for the range of different land uses to
do this - retail storefronts should open directly onto the sidewalk, as should
restaurants, with seating in front on the sidewalk or in front yards depending
on the space; civic and office buildings should highlight main entries with
approachable small plazas (like City Hall does today).
The Town Center development envisioned for the Draper City Fitzgerald
Property (see Element 3) will be a catalyst for these active uses and this
approach to the transformation of the corridor.

Expanded pedestrian realm
Pioneer Road itself will largely keep its lane configuration and right-of-way,
but will receive two main improvements. The first is a high-quality pedestrian
                                                                                                               6’ - 10’    5’      10-12’     0’ - 5’     8’        11’          11’           11’       8’         15’ - 20’
                                                                                          Existing historic                                                                                                                      Existing or new
                                                                                              building                                                                                                                            development
                                                                                                              Sidewalk    Land-   Two-Way     Land-     Parking   General        Center      General   Parking   Sidewalk with


realm that will complement the active ground floor uses. It will go beyond just
                                                                                                                          scape   Multi Use   scape               Purpose      Turn Lane/    Purpose              street trees
                                                                                                                                    Path                                    Planted Median




a sidewalk to create a wide public space with shade, lighting, street furniture,     Figure 10: Recommended typical crossPioneer
                                                                                                                          sectionsRoad for the Pioneer Road Main Street at the new
                                                                                                                             LOOKING WEST

and space for businesses to occupy along their storefronts.                          Town Center development / TRAX station (above) and through the district to the west (below).

 32 Draper Town Center Station Area Plan
Pedestrian-oriented
entries to Community              Wide sidewalks with
Center and City Hall              street trees, pedestrian scale
                                  lighting, and street furniture
On-street multi-use trail




Blocks unbroken by
driveways - vehicle
                                  Celebrate Draper's heritage
access from side streets
                                  with adaptive reuse of IFA mill
and drives; parking in
rear




Sidewalk-fronting
ground floor retail
in new mixed-use
buildings                        Frequent pedestrian crossings
                                 with curb extensions and median
                                 refuges




Plaza spaces throughout
the Main Street


                                 Landscaped median with
                                 turn pockets



                                 Strategically located on-
                                 street parking


                            Draper Town Center Station Area Plan    33
   2 A NEXUS OF TRAIL CONNECTIONS.
Paved trails converge on the Town Center Station Area, but, for the most part,      development envisioned for Draper City's Fitzgerald property. The Plan
do not connect to one another. Connecting these trails is one of the Station        envisions trails extending from the Draper Park area to City Hall, both south of
Area's greatest opportunities - providing benefits for transit passengers           the Town Center and along Pioneer Road.
accessing the station as well as for the community's quality of life. The Station
                                                                                    The Plan includes additional trail connections that should occur if some key
Area Plan shows how the Town Center Station Area will not simply connect
                                                                                    areas are redeveloped. These are a direct trail connection along the TRAX
but will be a nexus for trails - extending the TRAX trail from the north, the
                                                                                    tracks from 12300 South to the station - a way to more directly connect to
Porter Rockwell Trail from the southeast, linking in the Willow Creek trail,
                                                                                    the station and avoid steep slopes - and a trail along the current 970 East
implementing the planned canal trail, and adding several other new links,
                                                                                    alignment to link to the envisioned Pioneer Road trail.
including a trail along Pioneer Road. This new nexus of trails will also feature
quality, safe crossings, end-of-trip infrastructure like bike parking as well as    Supporting infrastructure
wayfinding signage. A "loop" of trails/parkways is envisioned to run around
the core station area from the TRAX trail's current end, through the UTA site       Bringing together these trails into a connected nexus in the Town Center area
via the Canal Trail, down the slope to the TRAX station, across Pioneer Road,       also requires the provision of supporting infrastructure:
behind the envisioned Town Center development, back up to the City Hall,
                                                                                    •    Visible, short crossings of major streets like 12300 South and Pioneer
back across Pioneer Road through the IFA site to the TRAX tracks, then along
                                                                                         Road;
the tracks northwest back to the existing TRAX trail.
                                                                                    •    Bike parking at all destinations;
Future connections                                                                  •    Wayfinding along trails throughout the Station Area; and
Canal trail                                                                         •    Complementary public space and streetscape features, such as trees and
                                                                                         landscape, lighting, plazas, and street furniture.
Draper City has planned a trail along its canal right-of-way through the core
of the station area. This trail will serve as an extension of the TRAX rail trail
coming into the area from the north along the TRAX tracks; the canal trail
will help provide access from the northwest, linking in the UTA site to a trail
running south down the hill to the station platform, in addition to continuing
east along the canal. The Plan envisions the canal trail as the centerpiece of
the future UTA site's public space, with multifamily buildings fronting onto a
small park around the trail. The canal trail will need to find a way to navigate
the steep slopes between the UTA site and the current end of the rail trail; if
the area to the west of the UTA site is redeveloped, this trail link should be
incorporated into the development in a central, public way.

Civic link
Extending the Draper Park area and the ends of the Porter Rockwell and
Willow Creek Trails that end within it - and connecting them with the civic
and community destinations to the west such as City Hall and historic
Draper - is a major opportunity for the plan. The Plan seeks to achieve this
goal by incorporating trail links as part of the new mixed use town center          A rendering showing one of the several trails envisioned for the station area - this one linking
                                                                                    the TRAX station north to the Canal Trail on the current UTA property, as part of the open
                                                                                    space buffer between multifamily buildings and the Parkstone neighborhood.


34 Draper Town Center Station Area Plan
        TRAX rail trail        On-Street Multi-Use Trail
                               along south side of Pioneer
                               Road                                     Canal trail       North-south trail linking
                                                                                          canal trail and Draper Park
                                                                                          via the TRAX station and

                                                                                      DRAPER
                                                                                          Town Center development


                                                                                      TOWN CENTER
                                                                                       Station Area Plan
                                                                                        LAND USES
                                                                                             Multifamily housing
                                                                                             (Apartments/Condos)
                                                                                             Townhomes
                                                                                             (Single Family Attached)
                                                                                             Retail/Restaurant

                                                                                             Civic/Community Center

                                                                                             Park/Open Space

                                                                                             Parking


                                                                                        STATION AREA SUBAREAS
                                                                                              Concept for core site

Additional trail connections
                                                                                              Industrial redevelopment - mix of retail,
                                                                                              oﬃce, middle housing, and stacked condos

pending redevelopment                                                                         Historic Town Center area
                                                                                              preservation and inll
                                                                                              Area for potential future consideration
                                                                                      Example         of a trail
                                                                                              of incorporation into TOCand
                                                                                                                       area

                                                                                      greenway          running through
                                                                                        PUBLIC REALM IMPROVEMENTS
                                                                                      new townhomes
                                                                                              Open space             and older
                                                                                      industrial
                                                                                              Plaza
                                                                                                        buildings.
                                                                                              Streetscape
                                                                                              Trail
                                                                                              New street
                                                                                              Driveway
                                                                                              Potential future trail
                                                                                              connection
                                                                                              Potential future street
                                                                                              connection



                                                                                                      800’              1,600’

                                                                                          N


                                            Trail linking Draper Park
                                            and City Hall.
       Willow Creek Trail                                                              Porter Rockwell Trail

                                                                             Draper Town Center Station Area Plan                         35
   3        A MIXED-USE TOWN CENTER ON THE DRAPER CITY SITE.
The five acres of the Fitzgerald property purchased by Draper City provide         Active public realm
an unparalleled opportunity for a walkable town center - a cluster of civic,
shopping and dining destinations wrapped together as a community hub and           A vital part of the Town Center concept is an active public realm: An integrated
gathering space, and designed in a way that emphasizes people on foot rather       connected network of street, plaza, and park spaces that attract people and
than in cars.                                                                      activity, whether from outdoor restaurant patios, transit passengers coming
                                                                                   and going, farmers markets, music performances, and people jogging or
The site lies between City Hall and Draper Park, directly across from the
                                                                                   skateboarding. The Plan envisions the key town center uses being oriented to
Town Center Station, and so can become the catalytic project that brings
                                                                                   this active public space experience, with business doors and large windows
these elements together into a great place. The Plan's vision for the property
                                                                                   lining the public plazas, a busy event schedule, integration of Draper Park with
is to knit together these desired community and commercial uses in a way
                                                                                   the town center, and most importantly every aspect designed for pedestrians
that links Draper Park, historic Draper, and the station and supports the
                                                                                   rather than motor vehicle drivers.
vision for Pioneer Road as Draper's Main Street. As the Illustrative Concept
shows, the Plan proposes the site developed in two blocks, with mixed use          Community / performing arts center
retail/residential buildings and a community center along Pioneer Road and
townhomes in back, with parking in the center of each block.                       The public was highly interested in the addition of some type of community
                                                                                   center as part of the development of the City-owned Fitzgerald site. Draper
Proposed uses                                                                      city has also discussed this potential use for the property. The Plan proposes
                                                                                   a moderate-sized community use as part of the project, integrated with the
The Town Center Station Area Plan process revealed a core set of uses
                                                                                   other desired town center uses and contributing to the activation of the
that stakeholder committee members and the public alike want to see at
                                                                                   envisioned Pioneer Road Main Street.
the Draper City site. These include restaurants, retail, and some type of a
community or arts center. Complementary uses like housing and office space         The plan leaves the specific community use or uses open, although there was
are supported by a segment of stakeholders and the public. Holladay Village,       an emphasis within the public on performing arts.
a recent city-driven town center project that integrates retail, restaurants and
public space with offices and housing, was an example generally liked by the       Housing in the Town Center
public.                                                                            The Plan includes a recommendation for housing to be included in the Draper
The Town Center Plan proposes to integrate ground floor retail and restaurant      City town center development, in multifamily units on top of the restaurant/
uses with public plaza space along the envisioned Pioneer Road Main Street,        retail uses fronting Pioneer Road and in townhomes and duplexes at the
as well as complementary housing units in condominiums above the retail and        south side of the site. Many Stakeholder Committee members and the Project
restaurants and in townhomes and duplexes at the south side of the site.           Team felt that it is important to include housing on the Fitzgerald site - to
                                                                                   contribute to the state Station Area Planning goals and to provide a more vital
Opportunities to extend and connect the civic                                      environment in the town center.
campus
                                                                                   Parking at the Town Center
The Plan seeks to capitalize on the major opportunity to integrate the
recreation, public space, and historic resources of the Draper Park area with      The Plan proposes to provide motor vehicle parking in shared, two-level
a walkable town center. The Plan proposes to extend the segment of the park        structures in the center of each of the two town center blocks. Access to
adjacent to the Day Barn into a park space that becomes part of the town           this parking is off a new street between the town center blocks and from the
center. This happens through a re-alignment of the 1135 East access drive to       adjacent City Hall. With the grade difference between Pioneer Road and the
veer to the west, creating a place where the plaza space of the town center        area to the south, the parking will appear as a surface lot from Pioneer Road,
simply transitions across the small street into Draper Park.                       but an "underground" level will be under the Pioneer ground floor deck.



36 Draper Town Center Station Area Plan
                                               City Hall
                                               integrated
                                               into the
                                               Town Center
Trail linking City Hall with
Draper Park area along                         Community
duplexes                                       center


Two stories                                    On-street
of residential                                 multi-use path
units on top of
retail

Retail and restaurants
opening onto plaza

Single family duplexes and
townhomes at back of site
forming a transition to new
neighborhood                                   Community plaza that
                                               can host markets,
Two-level parking                              events, and other
structure in middle of                         community gathering
blocks serving retail,
residential , community
center, and park
                                               TRAX station directly
                                               across from Town
                                               Center and accessible by
Re-aligned 1135 East feeding
                                               a crosswalk
into Constitution Avenue,
Draper Park, Library, and
Senior Center.


Draper Park extension




                               Draper Town Center Station Area Plan   37
3-D renderings showing the vision for a Town Center on the City's Fitzgerald site - a vibrant public realm of outdoor dining and plazas that can host farmers' markets and other events, an
extension of Draper Park, and housing above.




 38 Draper Town Center Station Area Plan
    4       SIGNIFICANT RESIDENTIAL DENSITY ON THE UTA SITE.
Tucked onto a slope between the TRAX tracks and the busy commercial
corridor of 12300 South, the UTA-owned parcel currently used for a station
                                                                                    Parking approach
surface parking provides a great location for new housing to complement             The Plan envisions parking being integrated in the UTA site through structured
both the station and envisioned town center across Pioneer Road. The Plan           parking in each multifamily building, at a transit-supportive ratio (see
envisions the site taking on significant residential density in the form of up-     Implementation Plan). This structured parking at the south end of the site will
to-five-story multifamily buildings, complemented by trails, a small park/open      need to include spaces for transit passenger use through an agreement - see
space, and a small amount of commercial oriented to 12300 South.                    transit access element.
The vision for multifamily housing on the site                                      Potential configurations
The Plan proposes a series of multifamily residential buildings for the UTA site,   The Plan's Illustrative Concept and the rendering on the following page shows
accessed from a small network of streets that also connects to the station          one potential concept for the UTA site with regard to street configuration,
and its reduced number of parking spaces as well as potentially to the Hidden       building footprints and massing, retail location, and open space provision.
Valley Shopping Center next-door, and in the future, across the TRAX tracks to      However it's only one configuration bringing together these recommended
a future redeveloped IFA site and Pioneer Road.                                     elements for the site:

The Plan envisions the buildings to be up to five stories high.                     •   Connected network of walkable streets linking to 12300 South and the
                                                                                        Town Center Station (pedestrian connection), with the future potential for
The unique site provides several aspects of potential for good design -                 links to the adjacent shopping center to the east and industrial areas to
•   Buildings (and their parking podiums/structures) can be built into the              the west.
    site's hill and their heights terraced down the slope, breaking down the        •   Canal trail running along the canal alignment - with a central small park
    buildings' massing to blend into the community.                                     built around it as a focal point of the development (in addition to the
•   Buffer and open space areas can incorporate a network of trails that can            station).
    both be an amenity for the housing as well as make important station            •   Open space buffer between multifamily buildings and Parkstone
    area connections.                                                                   neighborhood.
Public space on the UTA site                                                        •   Direct, intuitive pedestrian access from UTA site to Town Center Station at
                                                                                        the southeast corner of the site.
The Plan envisions the new streets serving the UTA site as walkable, with
connected sidewalks, park strips/furnishings areas, and quality crossings. The      •   Up-to-5-story multifamily residential buildings, with high-quality exterior
site is oriented both to the station itself at the south end of the site but also       materials and an emphasis on stepbacks to reduce visual impact,
to a central park space surrounding the canal trail. This park space can be as          especially along the northern and eastern edges of the site and the
large or small as makes sense for UTA and the eventual partner developer but            breakup of the building massing.
should be oriented around the canal trail. Building entries should be oriented      •   Use of slope and building massing to blend the buildings' heights into the
to these focal points of public space.                                                  surrounding area.
                                                                                    •   Incorporation of station parking into both streets and residential building
                                                                                        structure(s).
                                                                                    •   Consideration for retail along 12300 South.


                                                                                                                       Draper Town Center Station Area Plan           39
Station parking is       UTA site
located in structured    redevelopment                       Canal trail continues       Residential              Retail uses in
parking in multifamily is focused on                         down hill to TRAX rail      buildings are            ground floors of
                                          Building
building(s), shared with multifamily                         trail; potential future     oriented to a            buildings fronting
                                          heights are up
residents, as well as in residential                         street connection down      central open             12300 South.
                         buildings.       to 5 stories.
on-street spaces.                                            hill across TRAX to         space.
                                                             Pioneer Road.




 "Back door" to Town         Network of new walkable       Open space buffer           Building heights terrace   Potential future
 Center TRAX Station:        streets with quality          between UTA site            down hill, with building   street connection
 Welcoming terraced          sidewalks, street trees,      development and             mass broken up by the      to Hidden Valley
 plaza maintaining ADA       and other street furniture;   Parkstone neighborhood      terracing.                 Shopping Center
 ramping.                    Ground floors of buildings    with trail from Canal
                             engage with the sidewalk.     Trail to TRAX station.

40 Draper Town Center Station Area Plan
3-D renderings showing the vision for how new mixed use development on the UTA site can create a vibrant frontage along 12300 South, with quality materials, stepbacks of building
massing, and attractive sidewalk-fronting storefronts and streetscape.




                                                                                                                                      Draper Town Center Station Area Plan           41
             IFA FLEXIBILITY WITH ENCOURAGEMENT OF FUTURE
   5         REDEVELOPMENT AND PRESERVATION.
The IFA grain mill, warehouse, and store constitute the most central active           Future redevelopment vision
land use in the Station Area, sitting between the station, tracks, and Pioneer
Road. On one hand, the mill, warehouse and store provide a range of                   The vision for a future redevelopment of IFA should support the elements
regionally, locally, and historically important uses that are still economically      and goals of the Station Area, including a walkable Pioneer Road Main Street,
vital. On the other, IFA may be better served with another location and the site      the need for housing in the station area, improved connectivity for streets
is a central opportunity for redevelopment and achievement of the Station             and trails, and the desire to preserve the historic IFA mill and warehouse. The
Area Goals. The Plan seeks to balance these potential futures of the site - to        Illustrative Concept includes the following features (note that the rendering
stay flexible to allow IFA operations to remain within a developing town center       shows one configuration of these elements, but many other possibilities exist):
while encouraging a future move and redevelopment of the site to support
                                                                                      •   A series of up-to-five-story buildings focused on multifamily residential
the Station Area, town center, and walkable Pioneer Road Main Street.
                                                                                          units but with ground floor retail along Pioneer Road.
Allow for current flexibility                                                         •   Improvement of the Pioneer Road pedestrian realm and streetscape to
                                                                                          be similar to that of the Town Center project across Pioneer Road - with a
IFA's store, warehouse, and especially its mill are a major investment, and               wide sidewalk.
would likely cost tens of millions of dollars to move. It is likely the operations
will remain in place for several years at least. The Plan must be flexible to allow   •   Preservation of the IFA grain mill and potentially the warehouse building
these operations to remain. The project team believes the uses envisioned                 and adaptive reuse into a new use that is ideally public-facing, such as a
for the other core sites on the UTA site and City-owned Fitzgerald site are               restaurant. The Day House, at Pioneer and 970 East, should be preserved.
compatible in the near term with the IFA site functioning as it does today; the       •   A small public plaza adjacent to the IFA mill, celebrating the IFA history
Pioneer Road streetscape may have to be flexible to allow for truck access.               through elements like murals and interpretive signage and lined by retail
                                                                                          and restaurants and other uses supporting public activity.
Seed a future move of IFA operations
                                                                                      •   Careful consideration of vehicular access and parking for the site - if
The Plan supports actions that support a future move of IFA's operations to               possible, allow for vehicular access to parking from another street besides
another site throughout the state of Utah. The first of these is the rezoning             Pioneer Road - the Pioneer Road frontage of the project should be as
of the site to allow more intensive residential and mixed use development,                unbroken as possible by internal driveways.
setting the stage for development in line with a transit-oriented community
                                                                                      •   Potential future street or pedestrian connection to the IFA site from the
and increasing the return available to IFA. The City should also work together
                                                                                          UTA site, across the TRAX tracks and into the area shown as a plaza. If a
with IFA to consider new sites for the grain mill and potentially the store, and
                                                                                          vehicular connection, this street should be designed as a shared street
explore funding opportunities to support the move.
                                                                                          space with features like a curbless street, a human scale surface like
Historic preservation and adaptive reuse                                                  pavers or stamped concrete, and a very slow speed.

The IFA grain mill is a major and unique landmark for the Draper Town Center,
and represents a rich 100-year history of agriculture in the community and
the national-level prominence of IFA through its "Milk White" eggs. The public,
through the project's engagement process, has recognized this importance,
and If IFA does move its operations, public feedback supports preserving the
mill and potentially portions of the warehouse as landmarks and/or adaptive
reuse opportunities. Throughout the United States, historic mills and other
agricultural buildings and infrastructure have been re-purposed for other
uses, especially a restaurant or other food and beverage use.
                                                                                      Adaptive reuse examples of silos and mills from around the United States.
42 Draper Town Center Station Area Plan
Day House is preserved;
next door, townhomes
reflect single family scale of
Day House and transition
heights down from TOC to
historic downtown.
                                          Vehicular access from 12300
                                          South to minimize traffic
                                          impact on Pioneer Road.
Ground floor retail along
Pioneer Road Main Street,
with transparent, engaging
facades and entries                       Rezone to allow 5-story
engaging with sidewalk.                   heights and mixed use; vision
                                          for site is focus on multi-
Vehicle driveways/access                  family residential.
from Pioneer Road is
minimized.                                Structured parking in podiums
                                          integrated into buildings.
Pedestrian connections
through the site.

Plaza activated by Pioneer
Road retail/restaurants
and adaptive reuse of grain
mill.

Preserved grain mill and
potentially warehouse
adapted into restaurant/
entertainment use.




                                 Draper Town Center Station Area Plan   43
   6        IMPROVED TRAX STATION ACCESS.
Because of geographic constraints for the Draper Town Center Station               Additional pedestrian access improvements
and the area's unique property configuration relative to the rail line, the
station's platform access is constrained as an island between Pioneer Road,        A network of other recommended improvements throughout the Station Area
the Parkstone residential neighborhood, and a steep slope running up to            will help improve pedestrian, bicycle and ADA access to the station. These
the station parking lot. With the recommended redevelopment of the core            include:
sites in the Station Area, the Plan identifies opportunities to reconfigure this
                                                                                   •   Top-quality sidewalks and pedestrian realm along Pioneer Road pending
access to make walking, biking, and rolling to the station platforms more
                                                                                       key redevelopment sites.
direct, convenient, and intuitive, while more closely integrating the station
into the public space of surrounding Town Center area. In addition, the Plan       •   Additional pedestrian crossings and traffic calming along Pioneer Road.
recommends adjustments to how other modes access the station, including            •   A network of trail connections providing direct access to the station from
bicycling, connecting transit, and driving/parking.                                    all directions.
Additional side platform for more direct access                                    •   A system of wayfinding signs focused on the trail network and Pioneer
                                                                                       Road.
The Plan recommends leaving the station platform largely as-is, but adding
side platform access from the south in addition to the existing center             Station parking approach
boarding platform. This would happen by extending the existing plaza
                                                                                   The Town Center Station Area Plan emphasizes pedestrian access to the
between the tracks and Pioneer Road to allow for side boarding as well as
                                                                                   station, but the Plan recognizes the need to maintain convenient park-and-
working with IFA to extend the platform to the west, if this is possible with
                                                                                   ride vehicular access to the station. The Plan envisions the existing station
IFA operations. This improvement would make access more direct from
                                                                                   surface parking lot converted to a new development focused on multifamily
the planned town center development across Pioneer Road. As part of this
                                                                                   residential and trails; station parking would be integrated into the structured
opening of access to the train platform, the Plan recommends moving the
                                                                                   parking within the southernmost multifamily building, closest to the station,
existing Pioneer Road pedestrian crossing to a location centered on the
                                                                                   shared with the residential parking since the daytime use of the spaces is likely
station plaza and the envisioned Town Center project on the City-owned
                                                                                   to be offset from the nighttime use by many residents. This parking would be
Fitzgerald site.
                                                                                   accessed from the drive loop running between the building and the station.
The Plan also strongly recommends finding a way to open pedestrian access          In addition, UTA could consider leaving some surface spaces in an angled or
on the west end of the platform, which is constrained by IFA property and          perpendicular fashion along the drive as "on-street" parking.
operations.
                                                                                   Transit connections
On the north side, a redevelopment of the UTA parking lot site should
consider the addition of a small pubic plaza linking the new drop-off area         The Plan envisions connecting bus and shuttle access to the station remaining
along the multifamily residential development and planned trail coming down        largely as-is, with buses and shuttle vans picking up and dropping off
the hill through the open space corridor with the north side platform. This        passengers in the Pioneer Road shoulder. These connections will benefit
presents a challenge, as there is a slope between the platform and the drive       from a longer plaza that will be more connected to the station platform and
and drop off area, but the Project Team believes it is possible to use a series    pedestrian crossing under the vision laid out above. More space for buses
of ramps and terraces to create an improved public space in this area while        can make the Town Center Station more of a hub/transfer point, and could
maintaining ADA access.                                                            accommodate more bus routes int he future. Buses will continue to use the
                                                                                   Pioneer Road/1300 East roundabout to turn around.
These improvements make the most sense when the City and UTA sites are
redeveloped in ways consistent with the Plan. The improvements rely on the         The larger transit plaza envisioned for the space between the tracks and
more walkable, active context created by the envisioned redevelopments.            Pioneer Road can also host bike and scooter share systems.


44 Draper Town Center Station Area Plan
                                        Station parking located in
                                        structure in multifamily
Crosswalk across
                                        building(s), shared with
Pioneer Road
                                        residents.
moved further
west.


West pedestrian                         Trails lead directly to
crossing of tracks                      station
from the south
opened by working
with IFA.

Station is
nestled into
other key uses
- Town Center
development
and Draper Park

Side platform added to
integrate with existing
train car plaza and
open direct access to
train from the Town
Center




End-of-line
infrastructure
envisioned to function
as it does now.


                          Draper Town Center Station Area Plan    45
            REZONING OF SOME AREAS AROUND THE STATION TO
   7        ENCOURAGE TRANSIT ORIENTED COMMUNITY.
Some areas in the Town Center Station Area provide the opportunity to pair          traffic by narrowing lanes and adding bulb-outs and medians. The Plan also
with the core sites to enhance the transit oriented community envisioned by         recommends, in the long term, a new street connection running through the
the Plan, and help achieve the statewide H.B. 462 Station Area Plan objectives.     area and meeting 12300 South at the current location of the UTA driveway,
                                                                                    where a new pedestrian crossing would be placed.
Each of these areas provides a different opportunity and has different
development timing, a different likely mix of uses, and different envisioned        In addition to the area north of 12300 South, the Plan also recommends
character. Unlike the core sites identified above that are owned by project         inclusion of the Hidden Valley Shopping Center into the Transit Oriented zone,
partners Draper City and UTA, these sites would only redevelop if their owners      but, like the area north of 12300 South, it should remain primarily commercial.
want to make this change; however the plan can lay out a vision of how these
areas can fit in to the overall Station Area vision and recommend policies that     Transition between T.O.C. area and historic
encourage redevelopment to fit that vision.                                         downtown core
Mixed-use area west of UTA site                                                     The Plan envisions the area between IFA and 900 East, between Pioneer Road
                                                                                    and 12300 South, as a transition between the more intensive transit oriented
The wedge of land to the immediate west of the UTA site that is currently           community area to the east on the UTA and IFA sites, to the less intensive,
occupied by light industrial and large service uses - such as K9 Lifeline dog       lower-rise historic Draper town center area to the west. This area includes
boarding and The Farm sports club - presents an opportunity to add the same         the Little Dutch Boy Bakery and other industrial uses on the east side of 970
types of housing recommended for the UTA site. This site is separated from          East, and homes, vacant land and some small commercial buildings on the
the UTA site by a high, steep slope, so it is more intuitively connected to 12300   west side of 970 East. The vision for this area is to implement redevelopment
South at its current access near where 970 East and the TRAX tracks converge.       that brings the five-story heights of the area to the east to the one-to-three
The Plan recommends rezoning these properties to the same transit-oriented          story heights of the historic downtown area, but also emphasizes walkable
designation as the UTA and IFA sites and encouraging vehicular access               street-fronting buildings. The Illustrative Concept shows five-story heights
from 12300 South and trail connections to the station, including a central          east of 970 East; 4-story heights west of 970 East to midblock, and the historic
integration of the canal trail link to the TRAX rail trail north of 12300 South.    town center area's three-story heights beginning mid-block between 970
Redevelopment of the site, combined with a UTA property redevelopment,              East and 900 East. The City's current Town Center Zone largely supports and
also creates the opportunity for a trail to extend from 12300 South along the       encourages this development but may have to be refined to allow for this
tracks directly to the station.                                                     height transition.
                                                                                    If redevelopment does occur in this area, the Plan includes consideration
Mixed-use area along 12300 South                                                    of re-aligning 970 East with Fort Street at Pioneer Road, creating a four-way
Directly north of the UTA parking lot site is a large big box commercial building   intersection with Pioneer Road.
and large surface parking lot, as well as a variety of other office uses on the
other side of 1000 East. This area's location directly across 12300 South from      Potential future re-consideration of 12300 South
the UTA site and under-utilization presents another opportunity to enhance          commercial areas
the Town Center transit oriented community.
                                                                                    The 12300 South corridor east of the UTA site is a vital commercial corridor
The Plan's vision for this area is a mix of uses that focuses on the types of       for Draper, comprising one of the community's largest concentrations of
commercial along the 12300 South corridor but also includes housing and             shopping, services and employment. In the near term, it does not make
office if viable. The Plan recommends rezoning these properties to the same         sense to include all of this corridor as part of the envisioned transit oriented
transit oriented designation as the UTA and IFA sites, but provisions may           community. However, in the long term, if and when these sites become ready
be necessary to ensure a balanced mix of uses. Redevelopment of this area           to be redeveloped the City should consider whether to encourage transit-
should also improve the pedestrian environment along 12300 South and slow           oriented development on them. This will depend in part on momentum and
                                                                                    transformation created by earlier phase T.O.C. projects.
46 Draper Town Center Station Area Plan
                                                                                                 Network of new walkable
                                                                                                 streets with quality
                                                                     Mix of land uses in this
                                                                                                 sidewalks, street trees,
                                                  Streetscape,       area is important -
                                                                                                 and other street furniture;
                                                  pedestrian         commercial, office, and
                                                                                                 Ground floors of buildings
                                                  crossing, and      housing. Commercial,                                        Townhomes as
                                                                                                 engage with the sidewalk.
Building      Focus on       Retail uses in       traffic calming    mixed use, and office                                       a transition to
                                                                                                 Parking located in middle of
heights       residential    ground floors of     improvements       generally in the front of                                   neighborhoods to
                                                                                                 blocks, behind or to the side
are up to 5   uses in this   buildings fronting   along 12300        the site, housing in the                                    the north.
                                                                                                 of buildings.
stories.      area           12300 South.         South.             back.




     Vehicle access off 12300   Canal trail - TRAX rail             Street link to    In this area, commercial        Potential "pad" buildings
     South                      trail link runs through             UTA site          is the land use focus of        fronting 12300 South
                                middle of site.                                       redevelopment.
                                                                                                          Draper Town Center Station Area Plan    47
              PRESERVATION AND ENHANCEMENT OF THE
   8          CHARACTER OF THE HISTORIC DOWNTOWN
Draper's historic downtown has a great pedestrian scale of buildings and               Encouragement of further infill and adaptive
connected streets that supports a walkable transit station area. The area
includes several landmarks, including the Park School, the Draper Theater,
                                                                                       reuse
the Draper Cemetery, the Historic Draper Park, and others. The Plan seeks to           Recent infill development projects in the historic downtown such as Draper
preserve this scale and character and these landmarks.                                 Cove show the potential for low-to-mid-rise projects with a mix of commercial,
However, the area's walkable character only exists in stretches, and so the            residential, and office uses to enhance the historic downtown. The
Plan also recommends continued infill of new development that fills out                encouragement of redevelopment like this on underutilized sites will need to
the district and complements the scale of the historic buildings, as well as           strike a careful balance between a bold transformation to a vibrant walkable
investment in walkable street infrastructure that includes filling sidewalk gaps       district on one hand and preserving the existing buildings and businesses
and improving sidewalks to the wide facilities with streetscape furnishings            on the other. Some sites, for example, are built as strip shopping centers
that should be part of a walkable small town or suburban downtown. One key             with parking lots in front and present opportunities to revitalize the district
strategy for this is to make amendments to the current Town Center zone to             with new street-fronting walkable retail and restaurants, if this works with
make these types of infill developments easier.                                        the wishes of property owners and existing tenants. In other cases, it may be
                                                                                       more beneficial to existing businesses and other tenants to adaptively reuse
The envisioned Pioneer Road Main Street and its recommended pedestrian                 an auto-oriented site by converting a parking lot to dining, display or yard
and streetscape improvements and active building frontages will help tie this          space and adding enhanced sidewalks , trees and landscape, and pedestrian
district together. It is important that the other streets, blocks, buildings, parks,   access features.
and public spaces complement the Main Street along Pioneer Road.

Preservation of existing scale, structures, and
business community
The Plan encourages the preservation of the one-to-two story structures that
define the historic area, as well as the success of the business community that
occupies them. A large aspect of this plan element is promoting the business
community in the town center to get it to a critical mass of vibrancy, and this
begins with supporting existing downtown merchants.




48 Draper Town Center Station Area Plan
                                                                                                                               Land use
                                                                                                                               mix remains
                          Continue to build   Incent walkable                                   New developments like          the same,
Expand tree canopy in     parking in back     development on key     Preserve and highlight     Draper Cove reflect            but with
downtown, especially      or, if necessary,   opportunity sites      of key historic            downtown character and         consideration
along Pioneer Road Main   at side of new      along Pioneer Road     buildings like the Park    help fill in gaps in Pioneer   of additional
Street.                   buildings.          Main Street.           School.                    Road Main Street.              housing.




              Improve sidewalks and     Pioneer Road Main Street     Potential future    Transition of building     Flexibility with
              streetscape along Fort    will be central feature of   alignment of        heights down from          industrial uses like
              Street corridor           downtown and will reflect    Fort Street and     five-story TOC area        Little Dutch Boy
                                        and support historic         970 East by         heights to one-story       bakery to remain or to
                                        downtown character.          moving 970 East     historic downtown          redevelop.
                                                                                         heights.

                                                                                                  Draper Town Center Station Area Plan   49
             QUALITY TRANSITIONS TO ESTABLISHED RESIDENTIAL
   9         NEIGHBORHOODS.
Approximately 50 percent of the Station Area is established, largely single          Transitions to neighborhoods to the south
family residential areas that all stakeholders envision as remaining intact.
These neighborhoods can be grouped into three areas - Parkstone, areas to            The key transition to neighborhoods to the south for the Plan to consider
the south, and areas to the north. Especially for the areas to the north and         is alongside the envisioned town center development on the City-owned
south, the Plan recommends both transitions from the more intensive transit          Fitzgerald property. South of this site is a property that Ivory Homes is
oriented community areas around the station and access improvements                  developing as a single family neighborhood, similar to the surrounding single
to better connect the neighborhoods to the station area and town center's            family residential area to the south, and southwest and southeast.
destinations and amenities.
                                                                                     The Plan's measures to ensure this transition include:
Parkstone buffering                                                                  •   Open space at the back of the future City town center site to create a
                                                                                         transition between a mixed use activity center and the planned Bainbridge
Parkstone is a small single-family residential neighborhood that has a unique
                                                                                         single family neighborhood;
place in the station area, due to its location immediately adjacent to the Town
Center Station platforms. Neighborhood residents have expressed concerns             •   A walkable neighborhood treatment of the street linking the Bainbridge
throughout the station area planning process about impacts to their quality of           development to the City town center project, with a sidewalk with
life from intensification of the station area, especially on the UTA property that       landscaped park strip, street trees, and the retail and community center
is next to the neighborhood. The neighborhood is accessed from its east side             frontages of the town center project;
via Estates Way, so access concerns aren't the issue (apart from increased           •   Trails that link the neighborhoods to the south into the town center area
traffic on Pioneer Road), but noise, changed views, and other nuisance type              - linking the Willow Creek trail to the planned town center project trails
impacts are a concern.                                                                   network and an east-west trail at the south end of the town center project
The Plan has taken these concerns into consideration and, while it                       linking to Draper Park and City Hall.
recommends high-intensity multi-family residential development on the UTA
site, it also recommends a landscaped open space buffer of about 100 feet
to separate these new residential buildings from the edge of the Parkstone           Transitions to neighborhoods to the north
neighborhood. This open space buffer can also be used as a trail corridor,
                                                                                     Neighborhoods to the north of the town center area primarily lie in Sandy
ensuring that the trail does not run too close to the back fences of the
                                                                                     and are up a hill from the station and across 12300 South from surrounding
Parkstone homes.
                                                                                     core sites, with the existing shopping centers in between, creating a sense of
                                                                                     separation.




50 Draper Town Center Station Area Plan
View that gives a sense of how the envisioned Town Center Station Area development will look from and transition to surrounding neighborhoods - the view from the open space buffer
between the Parkstone neighborhood and the UTA site (bottom).




                                                                                                                                      Draper Town Center Station Area Plan            51
    10 CONNECTIVITY IMPROVEMENTS THROUGHOUT THE
              STATION AREA
Connectivity of streets and pathways is a theme that runs through the entire             Pioneer Road Main Street
core of the station area. Several factors - steep slopes, large and patchy land
uses, rail tracks - combine to challenge connectivity in the area for those              The improvements recommended to transform Pioneer Road into a Main
on foot, biking, and even driving. The Station Area Plan needs to increase               Street for the Draper Town Center area are summarized in Element 1, but
connectivity where opportunities arise.                                                  will be an important element of connectivity in the station area - both along
                                                                                         Pioneer Road (wider sidewalks, the multi-use trail, streetscape) and across it
While many previous elements in the Plan identify connectivity improvements
                                                                                         (more frequent crossings, shorter crossings, traffic calming).
in their areas of focus, this section runs through them as a comprehensive
network for the whole Station Area.                                                      12300 South barrier reduction / traffic calming
Sidewalk improvements                                                                    12300 South is a major roadway that creates a barrier for people walking and
                                                                                         bicycling through the Station Area. Considering the Plan's vision for increased
Several locations throughout the Station Area have patchy, substandard, or no
                                                                                         amenities in the Station Area core, the Plan recommends reducing the barrier
sidewalks. The Plan recommends to fill these gaps with new sidewalks on:
                                                                                         posed by 12300 South through strategies such as:
•     Pioneer Road east of 1300 East, both sides.
                                                                                         •   Planted medians.
•     Both sides of Fort Street.
                                                                                         •   Narrowed traffic lanes.
•     West side of 970 East.
                                                                                         •   Curb extensions shortening pedestrian crossings.
•     Some other gaps on Pioneer Road.
                                                                                         •   More pedestrian activity and engaging pedestrian frontages along the
Bicycle treatments                                                                           12300 South corridor.
                                                                                         •   More frequent pedestrian crossings.
The station area has little bike infrastructure, especially in its core, directly
accessing the station. However, adding safe, direct, and comfortable facilities          New street connections
for people on bikes is a vital part of access to the station and its various
destinations. These recommendations largely build on those of the Draper                 A series of new street connections should be part of the envisioned new
Active Transportation Plan.                                                              developments on the core sites as well as other potential transit-oriented
                                                                                         community areas. New streets can extend existing streets, create a more
•     Off-street trails identified for the core Station Area sites - these trails will   pedestrian-scale block pattern, and overall establish a more connected station
      be the primary facilities bringing people to the station on bikes.                 area. While taken together, they can eventually create a well-connected station
•     On-street multi-use path envisioned for Pioneer Road through the                   area, the challenges of different developments happening at different times
      Station Area, which will also provide direct access to the station as well as      and the station area's topography make implementing a coordinated network
      other destinations. While the Active Transportation Plan recommends a              difficult.
      buffered bike lane for Pioneer Road, the existing roadway, right-of-way,
                                                                                         •   A network of local streets on the UTA site.
      and context make a buffered bike lane challenging to implement in the
      near term. A south-side two-way multi-use path could be implemented as             •   A new street connecting Pioneer Road south to the Bainbridge residential
      part of the City's Town Center project and could be built within the area              development, providing access to Town Center project parking.
      behind the curb, avoiding the curb cuts of IFA.                                    •   Dividing the block between 970 East, 900 East, Pioneer Road and 12300
•     Extension of 1300 East bike lane north of 12300 South.                                 South with an interior network of streets, if redevelopment occurs.
•     Extension of 12300 South bike lane east of 1300 East.
•     Bike lane on 1000 East.
    52 Draper Town Center Station Area Plan
                                                                                                                    Shared streets (woonerfs)
                                                                                                                    provide livable, pedestrian-
                                                                                                                    speed environments where cars
                                                                                                                    are allowed to drive through but
•      A potential street connection from the UTA site, across the TRAX tracks to                                   are treated as guests.
       the IFA site and Pioneer Road. This should be designed as a shared street
       (woonerf).
All of these street connections should be built to be as walkable as possible, at
minimum with a 5-to-6 foot sidewalk and equally wide park strip or furnishings
area, with street trees and pedestrian scale lighting, and traffic-calming
features.




                                                                                    DRAPER                    DRAPER
Enhanced crossings and roadway                                                                                TOWN CENTER
narrowing make people crossing the street                                           TOWN CENTER
more visible, slow traffic, and can enhance a                                                                 Station Area Plan
street's sense of place.                                                            Station Area Plan




                                                                                                                    Enhanced sidewalks and
                                                                                                                    streetscape improvements
                                                                                                                    provide a wide, comfortable
                                                                                                                    area for walking, shopping,
                                                                                                                    dining and other activities.


    MULTI-MODAL TRANSPORTATION & CONNECTIVITY IMPROVEMENTS
        New neighborhood street       New basic sidewalks
        New shared street             Enhanced sidewalks
        Existing trail                Streetscape improvements
        New trail                     Enhanced crossings
        New alley                     Roadway narrowing                                                              800’     1,600’
                                                                                         800’   1,600’
                                      Buﬀered bike lane
                                                                                     N                          N
                                      Protected bike lane
                                      Bike lane



                                                                                                         Draper Town Center Station Area Plan    53
IMPLEMENTATION PLAN
The Implementation Plan summarizes the key actions that can enable                        to create active ground floors or site frontages appropriate to different
Draper City and its partners to implement the Station Area Plan (SAP). The                uses and contexts - such as storefronts, yards, and residential entries.
Implementation Plan’s actions have been crafted to enable the City and its            The sites within the industrial redevelopment area shown in the Illustrative
partners to realize the Illustrative Concept and Plan Principles. These have          Concept should be rezoned at a later date as the property owners seek
been separated into three parallel "tracks." A more detailed version of the           change.
Implementation Plan can be found in the Appendix.
                                                                                      Step 2B: The City will modify the Town Center Zone in the following ways:
Track 1: Initial City Actions                                                         •   Reduce requirements for ground floor commercial space. Even in highly
Step 1: Station Area Plan adoption                                                        desirable traditional urban neighborhoods, much of the ground floor of
                                                                                          buildings is not commercial. However, active uses such as multifamily unit
The project team will finalize the Station Area Plan, and the City staff and              entries should still be required.
Council will adopt the plan.
                                                                                      •   Focus new commercial uses on Pioneer Road Main Street.
Step 2: Zoning                                                                        •   Consider adjusting parking requirements to be similar to those included in
                                                                                          the TOD zone above.
Step 2A: The City will create a New Transit Oriented Development (TOD) Zone
applying to the City-owned Fitzgerald property and UTA site, as shown in the          •   Consider increasing allowed heights where properties are not located in
Illustrative Concept. The zone will:                                                      close proximity to existing single family homes.
•     Allow a range of land uses typically found in the downtowns or central          •   Consider adding frontage types to help shape public space (see above)
      areas of mid-size cities, focusing on multifamily housing, retail/commercial,   •   Incent historic preservation.
      office/employment, and lodging.
•     Allow buildings of up to 5 stories, but ensure no one building is overly
                                                                                      Track 2: Specific Redevelopment Properties
      massive.                                                                        City Property
•     Require overall residential densities of a minimum of 50 units per acre in
                                                                                      The first step is the rezoning of the City property into the new TOD Zone as
      order to enable the City to apply for an HTRZ designation.
                                                                                      outlined above. The City will then confirm and establish goals for the project,
•     Regulate the maximum size and scale of development in the TOD by                using the Plan Principles shown above, or define a specific set of goals for the
      stories, height, setbacks, massing, and other measures of form rather           development of this property. The City will then use/refine the SAP concept.
      than dwelling units per acre.
                                                                                      The City will then order an appraisal for the property; prepare a Request for
•     Establish build-to lines along streets in order to create walkable street       Proposals (RFP) for Mixed Use Development teams; advertise and distribute
      environments and pedestrian access and minimal setbacks along property          the RFP regionally; review developer Proposals and select the City’s preferred
      lines, except adjacent to other zones, where setbacks may be larger.            developer; and negotiate Development Agreement(s) with the City’s preferred
•     Include transitions of height and massing down to the north and west.           developer.
•     Require parking ratios of no more than 1 to 1.25 spaces per residential         For the community center piece of the project: In the project team’s view, this
      unit, or a lower ratio if the developer employs transportation demand           community center is most likely a project that would be financed, designed,
      management (TDM) techniques appropriate for residents of the station            built, and maintained by the City. The bigger the center is, the more this is
      area, such as transit pass programs, bike/ebike share, and car share.           likely to be the case. However, if the community center is modest in size
•     Require ground floor commercial space on Pioneer Road.                          and scale (e.g., a single “black box” theater), it is possible that the developer
                                                                                      selected for the remainder of the City’s site could help to finance, design, and
•     Consider employing frontage types, which are typologies of different ways       build it.
    54 Draper Town Center Station Area Plan
UTA Property
Similar to the City property process described above, UTA, working alongside                           UTA’s preference is to integrate UTA parking stalls into structured parking.
the City, will first confirm and establish goals for the project, using the Plan                       The hope is that structured parking shared among transit riders and the
Principles or plan language shown above, or define a specific set of goals for                         residential units is possible. A shared parking analysis is needed to determine
the development of this property. UTA could also refine the design concept                             shared stall utilization. UTA seeks to limit surface lot parking adjacent to the
shown in the SAP at this point or later once a developer is selected.                                  platform; the Plan recommends at most integrating some on-street spaces
                                                                                                       for the new street that will access the east end of the station. Project team
Rezoning this property is an important next step. Rezoning it to the new
                                                                                                       utilization analysis showed the UTA parking lot less than 10 percent utilized –
TOD zone described above should happen before UTA begins to engage a
                                                                                                       at any given time there are about 35 cars in the lot. However, UTA notes that
developer for the property.
                                                                                                       modes are returning to 2019 ridership, and between 2018-2019, utilization
UTA will then work with the City to engage a development partner that best                             ranged from 100 to 150 vehicles. To accommodate this demand, about 50
demonstrates the ability to realize the vision described in this plan.                                 on-street spots along the access drive could remain. In addition, another 50 to
                                                                                                       150 spaces could be shared in future residential/mixed-use projects built on
The project team believes 3-to-5 story residential buildings on the site,
                                                                                                       site, as follows: During the day, when a large share of residents leaves for work
along with some ground floor commercial space along 12300 South, would
                                                                                                       or other obligations, park-and-ride patrons can be allowed to use a modest
be financially feasible for developers to build on this site, with no subsidy
                                                                                                       share of the parking built for residents. This means that the developer of the
required by UTA or the City. However, a subsidy or public investments could
                                                                                                       project does not need to build additional parking specifically for park-and-ride
be required if expectations for the canal trail, open space, or structured
                                                                                                       patrons. However, a more detailed time-of-day analysis and a share analysis
parking are high. An alternative funding source will be required for UTA
                                                                                                       will need to be performed prior to confirming a specific number of stalls.
parking and public amenities.
                                                                                   Year
                                                            1           2              3           4           5                  6 - 10                       10 - 20
                                                       Adopt SAP
                          INITIAL CITY
                                                             New Transit Zone
                      POLICY ACTIONS
                                                                Modify TC Zone

                                                                          CITY SITE TOWN CENTER


                     REDEVELOPMENT                                        UTA SITE

                              SITES
                                                                            IFA SITE
                                                                                                                       IFA relocation, site redevelopment, and adaptive reuse


                                                                                                 Bike lanes and sidewalks

                                                                                   Canal Trail
                     INFRASTRUCTURE                                              Pioneer Road Improvements
                        INVESTMENTS
                                                                                                               Draper Park Extension

                                                                                                                            Platform Improvements




Figure 11: Timeline for the Plan's implementation categories of Initial Policy Actions, Redevelopment Sites, and Infrastructure Investments.

                                                                                                                                                    Draper Town Center Station Area Plan   55
IFA Site                                                                              Track 3: Infrastructure Investments
Redeveloping the City and UTA sites can probably be accomplished more                 The preferred development concept identifies the following infrastructure. For
quickly than the IFA site, since there is already a reasonably clear vision for       timing please see Figure 11.
the City and UTA sites, and they are undeveloped or underutilized. The IFA
site can be reused or redeveloped but may require patient effort for many             Station Access and Public Space
years to realize that. The site is currently used to provide retail, storage, and     These are envisioned to include:
industrial/food processing uses, and the project team's understanding is that
the uses on this site could be consolidated with activities on other IFA sites        •   Addition of south side platform – the project team recommends adding a
and collectively moved to other sites yet to be determined.                               south side platform and leaving the middle platform, with boarding from
                                                                                          both sides.
Just by rezoning the site to TOD alone, or allowing IFA or other site owners to
opt into the TOD zone, should create significant land value for IFA. Rezoning         •   Opening of west pedestrian access, working with IFA or successive
should happen when IFA wants it to.                                                       property owner.

The following actions could be carried out by the City, IFA, or other parties, in     •   Expanded plaza between Pioneer Road and the platform(s) to match the
no specific order:                                                                        width of the platform and increase direct access from Pioneer Road and
                                                                                          planned new Pioneer Road crossing at west end of platform area.
•     Identify the properties that IFA might want to consolidate at another
                                                                                      •   Terraced plaza space connecting envisioned multifamily and new drop off/
      industrial site, and the types of retail properties IFA would like to occupy.
                                                                                          drive with the platform.
•     Engage a commercial broker to identify industrial and retail potential
                                                                                      Planning level cost estimate: $6.3 - 8 Million
      properties that fit IFA’s needs.
•     Secure an appraisal of the Draper IFA property.                                 Pioneer Road Main Street
•     Conduct internal strategic planning at IFA.                                     Transformation of Pioneer Road to a "Main Street" with wide sidewalks,
•     Evaluate the financial tools available from Preservation Utah and its           streetscape improvements, an on-street multi-use path, and frequent
      partners. The IFA property may be able to leverage funding for historic         pedestrian crossings.
      preservation, including low-interest loans for qualifying properties through    Planning level cost estimate: $4 Million
      statewide historic preservation advocacy organization Preservation Utah,
      or grants/tax credits through the Utah State Historic Preservation Office.      Draper Park Extension
•     Engage brokers to help understand the potential for “interim” commercial        This would extend Draper Park from the Day Barn area into the envisioned
      uses (e.g., restaurants, other food and beverage, or other commercial           Town Center mixed use development, integrating the park into the station
      uses) to be housed in the current IFA site, west of the mill and east of the    and Town Center. It would require re-aligning 1120 East and its signal and
      warehousing/distribution area, in the building with a frontage closest to       pedestrian crossing of Pioneer Road.
      Pioneer Road. This area could be leased by IFA to tenants.
                                                                                      Planning level cost estimate: $4 Million
•     Look for opportunities to secure regional or state funding to support IFA’s
      long-term goals and potentially relocation. IFA’s long-term goals appear        Rail/canal trail corridor
      to be consistent with state and regional station area planning goals, and       This would establish the canal trail along the canal right-of-way from 1300 East
      success for the IFA also advances regional economic development and             through the UTA property.
      historic/community development goals.
                                                                                      Planning level cost estimate: $1 Million
                                                                                      Additional active transportation improvements
                                                                                      These include extended bike lanes on 1300 East and 12300 South; new bike
                                                                                      lanes in 1000 East; traffic calming and pedestrian crossing improvements on
                                                                                      12300 South; new sidewalks for core station area streets such as Fort Street
    56 Draper Town Center Station Area Plan                                           and 970 East.
drapertowncenterstation.org




                       Draper Town Center Station Area Plan   57
          EXHIBIT C
      COMMENT CARDS
FEBRUARY 20, 2025 OPEN HOUSE
