MEMO
To: Planning Commission
From: Jennifer Jastremsky
Date: 2025-05-22
Re: Public Hearing: Kimballs Junction Zoning Map Amendment, Land Use Map
Amendment, and Development Agreement Request (Legislative Action)


Comments:


This application is a request for approval of a Zoning Map Amendment, Land Use Map
Amendment, and Development Agreement for approximately 20 acres located on the
south side of Kimballs Ln (11800 S), at approximately 600 E Kimballs Ln. The property is
currently zoned RA1 and RA2. The applicant is seeking approval to allow the property to
be developed at a future date with multi-family housing in density range of 25-27
dwelling units per acre.


The findings are as follows:


Zoning Map Amendment

Findings for approval:

  1. The zoning map amendment is consistent with goals, objectives and policies of the
     city's general plan.
  2. The zoning map amendment is consistent with the standards of any applicable
     overlay zone.
  3. Adequate facilities and services will be available to serve the subject property,
     including, but not limited to, roadways, parks and recreation facilities, police and fire
     protection, schools, stormwater drainage systems, water supplies, and wastewater
     and refuse collection.
  4. The zoning map amendment will not materially affect the existing Station Area
     Planning efforts underway with respect to the Utah State Code requirements of 10-
     9a-403.1.


Findings for denial:

  1. The proposed zoning map amendment is not consistent with goals, objectives and
     policies of the city's general plan, particularly as the Kimballs Station Area Plan is not
     complete and still going through the master planning process outlined in Utah State
     Code 10-9a-403.1.
  2. The zoning map amendment is not harmonious with the overall character of
     existing development in the vicinity of the subject property.
  3. The proposed zoning map amendment will adversely affect adjacent property.


Land Use Map Amendment

Findings for approval:

  1. The land use map amendment is appropriate and complies with the requirements
     of DCMC Section 9-2-020(F) and Utah State Code 10-9a-404.


Findings for denial:

  1. The land use map amendment does not comply with DCMC Section 9-2-020(F) and
     Utah State Code 10-9a-4.


Development Agreement

Findings for approval:

  1. The development agreement complies with DCMC Section 9-5-200(C) and (D) and
     provides for a density range on the property while still allowing the City and
     applicant to work together to create a site plan that best meets the interests of the
     community and applicant.


Findings for denial:

  1. Approval of the development agreement will materially affect the existing Station
     Area Planning efforts underway. The master planning process as outlined in Utah
     State Code 10-9a-4.403.1 provides for additional public and stakeholder
     involvement and is the best way to determine appropriate densities for the
     property.




ATTACHMENTS:

Kimball Junction PC Staff Report -5-22-25 Combined.pdf
