                       CITY COUNCIL AGENDA

                       Tuesday, January 21, 2025, 6:00 PM
                       Council Chambers
                       1020 E. Pioneer Road
                       Draper, UT 84020
6:00 PM STUDY MEETING

       Discussion: Town Center Station Area Plan - Kellie Challburg, Jen
       Jastremsky, and Todd Taylor

       Council/Manager Reports

7:00 PM BUSINESS MEETING

1.     Call to Order

2.     Pledge of Allegiance

3.     Oath of Office
       Police Department Master Officers

4.     Presentation: Upcoming 2025 Utah State Legislative Session - House
       Representative Cal Roberts

5.     Public Comments
       To be considerate of everyone attending the meeting, public comments will be
       restricted to items that are not listed on this or a future agenda and limited to three
       minutes per person. Comments which cannot be made within these limits should be
       submitted in writing to the City Recorder prior to noon the day before the meeting.
       Comments pertaining to an item on the agenda should not be given at this time but
       should be held until that item is called.

6.     Consent Items

       6.a Approval of the January 7, 2025, City Council Meeting Minutes

       6.b Approval of Resolution #25-03
           A Resolution reappointing Walt Rosemann to the Draper City Tree
           Committee.

       6.c Approval of Resolution #25-04
           A Resolution authorizing the Mayor of the City of Draper to appoint Nicole
           Smedley as City Recorder for the City of Draper.
7.       Items for Council Consideration

         7.a Public Hearing: Providing Local Consent for a Single Event Permit for
             Craft Culinary Concepts LLC dba Vermilion Hospitality Group.
             Staff report by Travis DeJong.

8.       Adjournment

I, the City Recorder of Draper City, certify that copies of this agenda for the Draper City
Council meeting to be held January 21, 2025, were posted at Draper City Hall, Draper
City      website www.draperutah.gov, and the Utah Public Notice website at
www.utah.gov/pmn.

Date Posted:
                                             Laura Oscarson, MMC, City Recorder
                                             Draper City, State of Utah




In compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act, any individuals needing special
accommodations or services during this meeting shall notify Laura Oscarson, City
Recorder at (801) 576-6502 or laura.oscarson@draperutah.gov, at least 24 hours prior to
the meeting.
