MEMO
To: Planning Commission
From: Todd A. Draper, AICP
Date: 2025-12-18
Re: Public Hearing: T-Mobile Steep Mountain Park Amended Conditional Use Permit
Request (Administrative Item)


Comments:

This application is a request for approval of a Conditional Use Permit for approximately
9.51 acres located within Steep Mountain Park, east of Red Leaf Dr., west of Parowan
Way, and north of Steep Mountain Dr. at approximately 351 E. Steep Mountain Dr. The
property is currently zoned OS (Open Space/Parks). The applicant is requesting that
amendments to the details and conditions of approval for the wireless
telecommunications facility installation be approved to allow for changes to the stealth
concealment type for the existing wireless telecommunications installation for T-Mobile.

Findings for Approval:
  1. The proposed use is in harmony and compliance with the objectives and
     requirements of the city's general plan.
  2. Reasonable conditions have been imposed that substantially mitigate the
     reasonably anticipated detrimental effects of the proposed use.
  3. The proposed height of the installation is compatible with the height and mass of
     existing buildings and utility structures.
  4. The antenna location in relation to existing vegetation, topography and buildings
     provides adequate visual screening.
  5. The specific property is suitable for the proposed use.
  6. There are no identified health, safety, or welfare impacts of the proposal for either
     the city, the area, or persons owning or leasing property in the area.

Findings for Denial:
  1. The proposed use is not in harmony with the objectives and requirements of the
     city's general plan.
  2. Reasonable conditions are not able to be imposed to substantially mitigate the
     reasonably anticipated detrimental effects of the proposed use.
  3. The proposed height of the installation is not compatible with the height and mass
     of existing buildings and utility structures.
  4. The antenna location in relation to existing vegetation, topography and buildings
     does not provide adequate visual screening.
  5. The specific property is not suitable for the proposed use.
  6. There are health, safety, or welfare impacts of the proposal for either the city, the
     area, or persons owning or leasing property in the area.




ATTACHMENTS:

2025-0275-USE - T-Mobile CUP staff report - final.pdf
