                                Development Review Committee
                                    1020 East Pioneer Road
                                      Draper, UT 84020
                                           June 13, 2025

To:                 Draper City Planning Commission
                    Business Date: June 26, 2025

From:               Development Review Committee

Prepared By: Nick Whittaker, MCMP, Planner II
             Planning Division
             Community Development Department
             801-576-6522, Nick.Whittaker@draperutah.gov

Re:      Mallory White I-ADU– Deviation Request
         Application No.: 2025-0087-VAR
         Applicants:       Mallory White
         Project Location: 15262 S. Steep Mountain Dr.
         Current Zoning: R3 (Single-family residential) Zone,
         Acreage:          Approximately 0.16 acres (6,969 ft2)
         Request:          Request for approval of a Deviation from strict compliance with
                           the geographical restrictions for Internal Accessory Dwelling Units
                           (I-ADU’s).



BACKGROUND AND SUMMARY

This application is a request for approval of a Deviation from strict compliance with the
geographical restrictions for I-ADU’s for approximately 0.16 acres located north of the
intersection of Steep Mountain Dr. and Duchesne Cir. at approximately 15262 S. Steep
Mountain Dr. (Exhibit B and C). The property is currently zoned R3. The applicant is
requesting the Deviation be approved to allow for the creation of an I-ADU.

The subject property is Lot 57 of the Centennial Heights Subdivision - Plat C. A single-family
dwelling was built on the property in 2000. The property is located within a mapped area of
the City where I-ADU’s are prohibited (Exhibit F). The applicant has submitted a separate
application for the creation of an I-ADU which is pending approval of this deviation request.




Mallory White I-ADU                                                   App. # 2025-0087-VAR
Deviation Request                               1
ANALYSIS

General Plan and Zoning.

 Table 1              General Plan and Zoning Designations                     Exhibit
 Existing Land Use    Residential Medium Density                               Exhibit D
 Current Zoning       R3                                                       Exhibit E
 Adjacent Zoning
    East              R3
    West              R3
    North             R3
    South             R3



The Residential Medium Density land use designation is characterized as follows:




Mallory White I-ADU                                                App. # 2025-0087-VAR
Deviation Request                           2
According to Draper City Municipal Code (DCMC) Section 9-4-030 the purpose of the R3
zone is to, “permit medium density residential development without special mitigation
requirements. This zone is intended to provide incentives to foster residential development
with little impact on its surroundings and on municipal services, and to generally preserve
the semirural character called for in the density element of the general plan”.

Site Plan Layout. A site plan, elevation photos, and floor plans for the proposed I-ADU are
provided as Exhibits G, H and I. The I-ADU will be located in the basement of the single-
family home. The entrance to the I-ADU will be located on the southwest side of the
residence where a separate walk out basement entrance will be constructed. Staff
reviewed the proposed plans submitted in a separate application for the creation of the I-
ADU and has determined that they comply with all other applicable requirements of DCMC
chapter 9-31 outside of the geographical restrictions for which this deviation is being
sought.

The property is approximately 6,969 ft2 in size which surpasses the 6,000 ft2 minimum
needed to satisfy the size requirement for approval of the deviation as described in
subsection 9-31-055(A) of the DCMC. The subject property does not contain a Detached
Accessory Dwelling Unit (D-ADU).

Parking. The property does not currently have the two (2) necessary off-street parking stalls
for use by the occupants of the proposed I-ADU which is a requirement to obtain the
requested deviation per DCMC subsection 9-31-055(A)(4). However, the applicant has
included in the attached site plan (Exhibit G), a proposed location to construct two (2)
required off-street parking stalls. According to the attached site plan, the parking stalls will
be located on the south side of the residence and accessed from Dushesne Cir. These stalls
will be constructed in conjunction with a separate I-ADU application which the applicant
has submitted. Additionally, the applicant must apply for an encroachment permit from the
engineering department for a curb cut and constructing a drive approach within the public
right of way.

Criteria For Approval.
The criteria for review and potential approval of a Deviation request for an I-ADU is found
in Section 9-31-055 of the DCMC. This section depicts the standard of review for such
requests as:

    A. Deviation Authorized: A deviation from strict compliance with the prohibition of I-
       ADUs on properties located within the areas identified on the I-ADU map in Exhibit A
       of this chapter may be approved by the planning commission if all of the following
       criteria are met and the planning commission finds that:
       1. The lot or parcel on which the primary dwelling is located is at least six thousand
           square feet (6,000 ft²);
       2. No D-ADU exists on the property;



Mallory White I-ADU                                                    App. # 2025-0087-VAR
Deviation Request                              3
         3. The proposed I-ADU meets all of the requirements of sections 9-31-030 and 9-
            31-045, including other applicable requirements of this chapter; and
         4. At least two (2) parking stalls meeting the requirements of 9-31-045(B)(2) are
            provided for use by occupants of the I-ADU.

The requirements of Section 9-31-30 of the DCMC are:

    A. An ADU shall not be rented or leased or offered for rent or lease unless the owner
        of record possesses a valid ADU Permit.
    B. D-ADUs shall not be permitted for any property containing an I-ADU. As a condition
        of approval for an application for a new D-ADU the owner of record shall agree to
        waive any right to create an I-ADU on the same property unless the D-ADU is first
        removed from the property. This condition shall be included in the recorded notice
        of accessory dwelling unit required by section 9-31-060 of this chapter.
    C. Primary dwellings are not permitted to contain more than one I-ADU. I-ADUs are not
        permitted within a D-ADU or other detached structure.
    D. I-ADUs shall not be permitted in single-family residential dwellings located on lots
        or parcels that are six-thousand square feet (6,000 ft²) or less in size.
    E. I-ADUs are not permitted within mobile homes.
    F. I-ADUs are not permitted within a primary dwelling unit serviced by a failing septic
        system.
    G. Separate utility meters may not be installed for any I-ADU or D-ADU.
    H. An I-ADU shall not be rented or leased for a time period of less than thirty (30)
        consecutive days. Only one rental agreement or lease shall be in effect at any one
        time.
    I. No ADU or dwelling associated with an ADU may be separately rented, leased, hired
        or loaned unless the owner of record occupies either the dwelling or the ADU as
        their primary residence.
    J. An ADU Permitted issued by the zoning administrator shall be required for the
        development and use of any ADU and shall only be issued once all regulations and
        standards of this section and sections 9-31-040 or 9-31-045 as applicable to the
        specific type of ADU are met. The ADU Permitted shall be subject to the application
        and review procedures, including the annual renewal requirements and procedures
        of section 9-5-210. (Ord. 1132, 2-17-2015; amd. Ord. 1499, 9-21-2021; Ord. 1626, 11-
        12-2024)

The requirements of Section 9-31-45 of the DCMC are:

    A. Existing Structure: An I-ADU shall be contained within the existing footprint of the
       primary dwelling. Second kitchens within the primary dwelling's footprint are not
       considered an I-ADU and are subject to requirements found in chapter 30 of this
       title. An existing second kitchen located within a primary dwelling can be converted




Mallory White I-ADU                                                  App. # 2025-0087-VAR
Deviation Request                             4
       as part of an application for the creation of an I-ADU in compliance with all other
       standards for I-ADUs listed in this chapter.
    B. Conditions: An I-ADU shall comply with the applicable requirements of section 9-31-
       030 and with all of the following conditions:
       1. Only one I-ADU shall be allowed per lot or parcel.
       2. At least one additional parking stall above the minimum required for the primary
           dwelling shall be provided on site and be reserved for exclusive use by
           occupants of the I-ADU. The parking stall(s) provided for use of the occupants of
           the I-ADU may not be located in tandem with parking stalls designed to serve the
           primary dwelling and shall be accessible from the street by a driveway.
           Driveways must conform to all requirements of section 9-10-075 and other
           applicable requirements of this title. Parking stalls shall be constructed of
           concrete or asphalt and shall comply with the applicable requirements of
           sections 9-25-070 and 9-25-080.
       3. If an I-ADU is created within a garage or carport attached to the primary
           dwelling, the parking spaces contained within the garage or carport that are
           removed shall be replaced in accordance with current parking and access
           standards.
       4. The I-ADU shall comply with all applicable building, health and fire codes in
           effect at the time the I-ADU is constructed, created or subsequently remodeled.
           The owner of record shall be responsible to ensure that all required building
           permits and other permits are obtained for the creation of an I-ADU.
       5. In accommodating an I-ADU within the primary dwelling, the exterior of the
           primary dwelling may not be changed or altered in a manner that would alter
           the appearance of the primary dwelling from that of a single-family dwelling.
           (Ord. 1499, 9-21-2021)

The proposed site plan, proposed floor plans, and elevation drawings provided with this
Deviation application have been reviewed by staff and have been determined to comply
with the criteria necessary for approval of the I-ADU and the requested deviation from
strict compliance with the geographical restrictions for I-ADU’s.



REVIEWS

Planning Division Review. The Draper City Planning Division has completed their review of
the Deviation Request. Comments from this division, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Engineering and Public Works Divisions Review. The Draper City Engineering and Public
Works Divisions have completed their reviews of the Deviation Request. Comments from
these divisions, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Building Division Review. The Draper City Building Division has completed their review of



Mallory White I-ADU                                                 App. # 2025-0087-VAR
Deviation Request                            5
the Deviation Request. Comments from this division, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Fire Division Review. The Draper City Fire Marshal has completed his review of the
Deviation Request. Comments from this division, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Noticing. Notice has been properly issued in the manner outlined in the City and State
Codes.



STAFF RECOMMENDATION

Staff finds that the application complies with the DCMC and recommends that the Planning
Commission review the request, and approve the application based on the criteria and
findings for approval, as listed within the staff report.



MODEL MOTIONS

Sample Motion for Approval – I move that we approve the Deviation request from strict
compliance with the geographical restrictions for I-ADU’s, as requested by Mallory White,
application 2025-0087-VAR based on the following findings and the criteria for approval as
listed in the Staff Report dated June 13, 2025.

Findings for Approval:

    1. The lot or parcel on which the primary dwelling is located is at least six thousand
       square feet (6,000 ft²);
    2. No D-ADU exists on the property;
    3. The proposed I-ADU can meet all of the requirements of sections 9-31-030 and 9-31-
       045, including other applicable requirements of this chapter before issuance of an
       ADU permitted; and
    4. At least two (2) parking stalls meeting the requirements of 9-31-045(B)(2) shall be
       constructed and provided for use by occupants of the I-ADU.




Mallory White I-ADU                                                 App. # 2025-0087-VAR
Deviation Request                            6
                        DEVELOPMENT REVIEW COMMITTEE ACKNOWLEDGEMENT


We, the undersigned, as duly appointed members of the Draper City Development Review
Committee, do acknowledge that the application which provides the subject for this staff
report has been reviewed by the Committee and has been found to be appropriate for
review by the Draper City Planning Commission and/or City Council.

                                                                                                                   Ckgoly liqrme by Tc<le A
                           Digitally aignod by Bnon MaxIioM                                                        Orsp«r
                                                                                                                   ON: C-US.
                           ON;C-US,
                           £* b/lon .maxf koid<^d raperuian gov.                              Todd A. Draper 0>D*«ip«f Ccy Punn r>f,
  Brien Maxfield 0*Draoer. OU-Publ« Works ●                                                                        CN>T»MA
                                                                                                                   D4te          }7
                           Eng.naonng, CNaBrian Maxltoid
                           Dare: 2025.06.17 11 ;21:42-06’00*


Draper City Public Works Department                                                     Draper City Planning Division


                                 Do Vy ^*9***^ ^ Dda


Don Buckley
                                 ON C*US,        BucWfy9dnp«t j(.a 0»D^ap«r C fy P*-*
                                            OU«Pfv l●W>^4. CN»Oon Bt«eUtv
                                 04». 20K 0616 07 67 t6«C«W



Draper City Fire Department                                                              riper City Le^gal^cruns^el
                               OiglUily doned by Reid Gerntun
                               DN:C-US. E-rold.9CmBCi>9drajM]tu;ah.gsv.
                               OU'Omper City Building. CN»Rb<I Germsen
Reid Gerritsen Rtassn: I aReit to ttie adcuracy and integrity
                               at ffiis document
                               Contact Mo: 801 .S7S.6534
                               Dale: 2025.06.16 07:U:43'06'00'




Draper City Building Division
                                     EXHIBIT A
                                DEPARTMENT REVIEWS

REVIEWS ARE NOT MEANT TO BE AN ALL-INCLUSIVE LIST OF POSSIBLE COMMENTS OR
CONDITIONS.



Planning Division Review.
   1. The property is over the 6,000 ft2 threshold, does not already contain an I-ADU, or a
      D-ADU and can provide the 2 required off street parking stalls required for approval
      of a deviation from the prohibition against I-ADUs. The proposed I-ADU will comply
      with all other applicable requirements of DCMC Sections 9-31-030 and 9-31-045.

   2. The proposed parking stalls shall be constructed prior to occupancy.

   3. The proposed basement walk out and stairwell shall be properly permitted in
      accordance with DCMC and shall be constructed prior to occupancy.

Engineering and Public Works Divisions Review.
   1. Secondary driveway shall comply with DCMC 9-10-075 - see maximum width,
      distance from intersection, and distance to lot line.

Building Division Review.
   1. Must verify that a basement finish permit was obtained before issuing an I-ADU
      Permit.

Fire Division Review.
   1. No additional comments.
  EXHIBIT B
VICINITY MAP
 EXHIBIT C
AERIAL MAP
  EXHIBIT D
LAND USE MAP
 EXHIBIT E
ZONING MAP
       EXHIBIT F
I-ADU RESTRICTION MAP
EXHIBIT G
SITE PLAN
         EXHIBIT H
EXTERIOR ELEVATION PHOTOS
  EXHIBIT I
FLOOR PLANS
