                                Development Review Committee
                                    1020 East Pioneer Road
                                      Draper, Utah 84020


                                        STAFF REPORT
                                      November 4, 2025

To:                 Draper City Planning Commission
                    Business Date: November 13, 2025

From:               Development Review Committee

Prepared By:        Maryann Pickering, AICP, Planner III
                    Planning Division
                    Community Development Department
                    (801) 576-6391 or maryann.pickering@draperutah.gov

Re:     Huber – Land Use and Zoning Map Amendment Requests
        Application Nos.: 2025-0222-MA and 2025-0223-MA
        Applicant:        Tom Spencer of Wright Homes, representing the Huber Family
        Project Location: Approximately 11730 S. 700 West
        Current Zoning: RA1 (Residential Agricultural, 40,000 sq. ft. lot minimum)
        Acreage:          Approximately 1.38 acres (approximately 60,112.8 sq. ft.)
        Request:          Request is to amend the land use designation from Residential
                          Low/Medium Density to Residential Medium Density and amend
                          the zoning designation from RA1 (Residential Agricultural, 40,000
                          sq. ft. minimum) to R3 (Single Family Residential, 13,000 sq. ft. lot
                          minimum).



SUMMARY AND BACKGROUND
This application is a request for approval of a Land Use Map Amendment and Zoning Map
Amendment for an approximate 1.38 acres located on the west side of 700 West at
approximately 11730 S. 700 West (Exhibits C and D). The property is currently zoned RA1.
The applicant is requesting that the applications be approved to rezone the rear portion of
the property (19,601 sq. ft.) to be sold to the developer of the subdivision to the west. The
subject parcel is currently developed with a single-family residence that was built in 1979.




Huber                                                                 Apps. # 2025-0222-MA
Land Use and Zoning Map Amendments                                            2025-0223-MA
                                               1
ANALYSIS
General Plan and Zoning.

 Table 1                   General Plan and Zoning Designations                Exhibit
 Existing Land Use         Residential Low/Medium Density                      Exhibit E
 Current Zoning            RA1                                                 Exhibit F
 Proposed Land Use         Residential Medium Density
 Adjacent Zoning
    East                   R3
    West                   RA1
    North                  RA1 and R3
    South                  RA1

The Residential Low/Medium Density land use designation is characterized as follows:




Huber                                                             Apps. # 2025-0222-MA
Land Use and Zoning Map Amendments                                        2025-0223-MA
                                               2
According to Draper City Municipal Code (DCMC) Section 9-8-020 the purpose of the RA1
and RA2 zones is to “foster low density development with little impact on its surroundings
and municipal services; to generally preserve the character of the city's semirural areas;
and to promote and preserve conditions favorable to large lot family life, including the
keeping of limited numbers of animals and fowl. The predominant use in these zones is
intended to be detached single-family dwellings, protected from encroachment by
commercial and industrial uses.”

Land Use Map Amendment. The applicant has requested a land use amendment to the
Residential Medium Density land use designation (Exhibit G). The proposed designation is
compatible with the requested zoning designation of R3. The Residential Medium Density
land use designation is described as follows:




Zoning Map Amendment. The applicant has requested the R3 zoning designation for the
property (Exhibit G). According to DCMC Section 9-8-020, the purpose of the R3 zone is to
“permit medium density residential development without special mitigation requirements.



Huber                                                               Apps. # 2025-0222-MA
Land Use and Zoning Map Amendments                                          2025-0223-MA
                                              3
This zone is intended to provide incentives to foster residential development with little
impact on its surroundings and on municipal services, and to generally preserve the
semirural character called for in the density element of the general plan.”

The applicant is requesting the land use and zoning changes for the rear approximate one
third of the property. The area proposed as part of the amendments (19,601 sq. ft.) will be
sold to Wright Homes who will then incorporate the land into the existing Fox Landing
subdivision and create a new lot. The remaining portion of the Huber property (40,511 sq.
ft.) will remain as RA1 and meets the minimum lot size for the RA1 zone.

Criteria for Approval:
Land Use Map Amendment:
The Land Use Map Amendment request falls under DCMC Section 9-2-020(F) because the
Land Use Map is part of Draper City’s General Plan. That section lists the following criteria
for a General Plan Amendment as:

        Plan Amendment: All plan amendments shall be in accordance with Utah Code
        Annotated 10-9a-404, as amended and, unless requested by the city's legislative
        body, shall follow the procedures as outlined in Draper City Municipal Code 9-5-
        060(D).

Section 9-5-060(D) is noted as follows:

        D.      Procedure: Zoning text and map amendments shall be considered and
                processed as provided in this subsection:
                1.    A complete application shall be submitted to the office of the Zoning
                      Administrator in a form established by the administrator along with
                      any fee established by the city’s schedule of fees. The application
                      shall include at least the following information:
                      a.      The name, address and telephone number of the applicant
                              and the applicant’s agent, if any.
                      b.      The name and address of every person or company the
                              applicant represents.
                      c.      The requested amendment and reasons supporting the
                              request.
                      d.      If the proposed amendment requires a change in the zoning
                              map, the application shall include:
                              (1)     An accurate property map showing present and
                                      proposed zoning classifications;
                              (2)     All abutting properties showing present zoning
                                      classifications; and
                              (3)     An accurate legal description and an approximate
                                      common address of the area proposed to be rezoned.


Huber                                                                Apps. # 2025-0222-MA
Land Use and Zoning Map Amendments                                           2025-0223-MA
                                              4
                        e.      If the proposed amendment requires a change in the text of
                                this title, the application shall include chapter and section
                                references and a draft of the proposed text.
                2.      After the application is determined to be complete, the zoning
                        administrator shall prepare a staff report evaluating the application.
                3.      The Planning Commission shall schedule and hold a public hearing on
                        the application as provided in sections 9-5-040 and 9-5-045 of this
                        chapter. Following the public meeting, the Planning Commission shall
                        recommend approval, approval with modifications, or denial of the
                        proposed amendment and shall submit its recommendation to the
                        City Council for review and decision.
                4.      The City Council shall schedule and hold a public hearing on the
                        application as provided in sections 9-5-040 and 9-5-045 of this
                        chapter. Following the public hearing, the City Council may approve,
                        approve with modifications, or deny the proposed amendment.

Zoning Map Amendment 9-5-060(E)
A Zoning Map Amendment is a matter committed to the legislative discretion of the City
Council and is not controlled by any one standard. However, in making a recommendation
to the City Council, the Planning Commission should consider the following factors in
Section 9-5-060(E) of the DCMC:

1.      Map Amendments:
        a.   Whether the proposed amendment is consistent with goals, objectives and
             policies of the city's general plan;
        b.   Whether the proposed amendment is harmonious with the overall character
             of existing development in the vicinity of the subject property;
        c.   Whether the proposed amendment is consistent with the standards of any
             applicable overlay zone;
        d.   The extent to which the proposed amendment may adversely affect adjacent
             property; and
        e.   The adequacy of facilities and services intended to serve the subject
             property, including, but not limited to, roadways, parks and recreation
             facilities, police and fire protection, schools, stormwater drainage systems,
             water supplies, and wastewater and refuse collection.


REVIEWS
Planning Division Review. The Draper City Planning Division has completed their review of
the Land Use Map and Zoning Map Amendment submissions. Comments from this
division, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.




Huber                                                                 Apps. # 2025-0222-MA
Land Use and Zoning Map Amendments                                            2025-0223-MA
                                                5
Engineering and Public Works Divisions Review. The Draper City Engineering and Public
Works Divisions have completed their review of the Land Use Map and Zoning Map
Amendment submissions. Comments from this division, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Building Division Review. The Draper City Building Division has completed their review of the
Land Use Map and Zoning Map Amendment submissions. Comments from this division, if
any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Fire Division Review. The Draper City Fire Marshal has completed their review of the Land
Use Map and Zoning Map Amendment submissions. Comments from this division, if any,
can be found in Exhibit A.

GIS Review. The Draper City GIS Division has completed their review of the Land Use Map
and Zoning Map Amendment submissions. Comments from this division, if any, can be
found in Exhibit A.

Noticing. Notice has been properly issued as outlined in City and State Codes.


STAFF RECOMMENDATION
Staff recommends that the Planning Commission review the requests, receive public
comment, and makes decisions based on the findings listed below and the criteria for
approval, or denial, as listed within the staff report.



MODEL MOTIONS AND FINDINGS
Land Use Map Amendment
Sample Motion for Positive Recommendation – I move that we forward a positive
recommendation to the City Council for the Land Use Map Amendment, as requested by
Tom Spencer of Wright Homes, representing the Huber Family, application 2025-0222-MA,
based on the findings for approval listed in the Staff Report dated November 4, 2025.

Findings for Approval:
1.     The proposed land use map amendment is consistent with goals, objectives, and
       policies of the city's general plan.
2.     The proposed land use map amendment is harmonious with the overall character
       of existing development in the vicinity of the subject property.
3.     The proposed land use map amendment will not adversely affect adjacent property.
4.     There are adequate facilities and services intended to serve the subject property,
       including, but not limited to, roadways, parks and recreation facilities, police and fire
       protection, schools, stormwater drainage systems, water supplies, and wastewater
       and refuse collection.
5.     The proposed land use map amendment complies with DCMC Section 9-2-020(F).


Huber                                                                 Apps. # 2025-0222-MA
Land Use and Zoning Map Amendments                                            2025-0223-MA
                                               6
6.      The legislative body may adopt any amendment to the general plan land use map
        that the legislative body considers appropriate.

Sample Motion for Modified Positive Recommendation – I move that we forward a positive
recommendation to the City Council for the Land Use Map Amendment, as requested by
Tom Spencer of Wright Homes, representing the Huber Family, application 2025-0222-MA,
based on the findings for approval listed in the Staff Report dated November 4, 2025 and
as modified by additional findings as follows:

1.      (List additional findings for approval…)

Sample Motion for Negative Recommendation – I move that we forward a negative
recommendation to the City Council for the Land Use Map Amendment, as requested by
Tom Spencer, representing the Huber Family, application 2025-0222-MA, based on the
findings for denial listed in the Staff Report dated November 4, 2025.

Findings for Denial:
1.     The proposed land use map amendment is not consistent with goals, objectives,
       and policies of the city's general plan.
2.     The proposed land use map amendment is not harmonious with the overall
       character of existing development in the vicinity of the subject property.
3.     The proposed land use map amendment will adversely affect adjacent property.
4.     The legislative body may reject any amendment to the general plan land use map
       that the legislative body considers appropriate.

Zoning Map Amendment
Sample Motion for Positive Recommendation – I move that we forward a positive
recommendation to the City Council for the Zoning Map Amendment, as requested by Tom
Spencer, representing the Huber Family, application 2025-0223-MA, based on the findings
for approval listed in the Staff Report dated November 4, 2025.

Findings for Approval:
1.     The proposed zoning map amendment is consistent with goals, objectives, and
       policies of the city's general plan.
2.     The proposed zoning map amendment is harmonious with the overall character of
       existing development in the vicinity of the subject property.
3.     The proposed zoning map amendment is consistent with the standards of any
       applicable overlay zone.
4.     The proposed zoning map amendment will not adversely affect adjacent property.
5.     There are adequate facilities and services intended to serve the subject property,
       including, but not limited to, roadways, parks and recreation facilities, police and fire
       protection, schools, stormwater drainage systems, water supplies, and wastewater
       and refuse collection.


Huber                                                                 Apps. # 2025-0222-MA
Land Use and Zoning Map Amendments                                            2025-0223-MA
                                               7
Sample Motion for Modified Positive Recommendation – I move that we forward a positive
recommendation to the City Council for the Zoning Map Amendment, as requested by Tom
Spencer, representing the Huber Family, application 2025-0223-MA, based on the findings
for approval listed in the Staff Report dated November 4, 2025 and as modified by
additional findings as follows:

1.      (List additional findings for approval…)

Sample Motion for Negative Recommendation – I move that we forward a negative
recommendation to the City Council for the Zoning Map Amendment, as requested by Tom
Spencer, representing the Huber Family, application 2025-0223-MA, based on the findings
for denial listed in the Staff Report dated November 4, 2025.

Findings for Denial:
1.     The proposed zoning map amendment is not consistent with goals, objectives, and
       policies of the city's general plan.
2.     The proposed zoning map amendment is not harmonious with the overall character
       of existing development in the vicinity of the subject property.
3.     The proposed zoning map amendment will adversely affect adjacent property.




Huber                                                           Apps. # 2025-0222-MA
Land Use and Zoning Map Amendments                                      2025-0223-MA
                                               8
                                       EXHIBIT A
                                  DEPARTMENT REVIEWS

REVIEWS ARE NOT MEANT TO BE AN ALL INCLUSIVE LIST OF POSSIBLE COMMENTS OR
CONDITIONS.

Planning Division Review.
1.     No additional comments.

Building Division Review.
1.     No additional comments.

Engineering and Public Works Divisions Review.
1.     The adequacy of facilities and services intended to serve the subject property,
       including but not limited to roadways, parks and recreation facilities, police and fire
       protection, schools, storm water drainage systems, water supplies, and waste
       water and refuse collection;
       Other than noted below, we are not aware of any inadequacies of the facilities
       intended to serve this property.
       a.     The change in zone from Residential/Agricultural (RA1) to Residential (R3) is
              proposing to change from low density residential use to a higher residential
              density. This change in zoning represents a minor increase demand on the
              streets and utilities. Based on the subject parcel size, the proposed zone will
              allow the construction of a second single residential structure, doubling the
              existing traffic from the current approximately one peak hour trip and
              approximate 9 vehicle trips per day to the proposed density of
              approximately 2 peak hour trips and approximately 18 vehicle trips per day.
              The site has existing access to 700 West, a minor collector, for an existing
              residential unit and a future connection to Rolands Dr, a local residential
              street. Based on the capacity of the fronting public streets, the change in
              zone has the potential increase traffic minimally on 700 West, but does not
              represent a significant increase where any mitigation would be required.
              Typically, a use where 100 peak hour trips are generated triggers the need to
              have a traffic impact study (TIS) completed to analyze mitigation
              requirements. The size of the subject parcel and the potential number of
              trips generated from a parcel of this size does not trigger a TIS. There are no
              existing public frontage improvements on 700 West and installation of those
              improvements would be required with any development. There are existing
              public frontage improvements on Rolands Dr.
       b.     Connectivity with the subject parcels to public right-of-way is to 700 West, a
              minor collector street for the existing residential structure and to Roland Dr
              to a potential future residential structure. Accesses are required to meet
              Draper City standards as outlined in our Master Transportation Plan and city
              code. Any development on the site will need to be evaluated for access
              location to comply with the required spacing based on the city’s access
              spacing requirements. Access is evaluated at the time of a site plan or
              subdivision application.
       c.     There are existing storm drainage facilities in Roland Dr. There are no
              existing storm drainage facilities in 700 West fronting the subject parcel. Any
              future change in site drainage will be required to be addressed with any
              subdivision or site plan application and shall comply with the provisions of
              the development requirements within the Draper City Municipal Code.
       d.     Sanitary sewer facilities will be provided by Jordan Basin Improvement
              District. Any subdivision or site plan application will require a commitment
              to serve from the sewer district that facilities are adequate to provide
              service for the proposed uses.
       e.     Drinking water is provided by Draper City to the subject parcel. Any
              subdivision or site plan application will require a commitment to serve from
              the city indicating it has the required facilities that are adequate to provide
              service for the proposed uses. This commitment is made at the time of
              subdivision or site plan approval.

Fire Division Review.
1.     No additional comments.

GIS Review
1.     No additional comments.
                                        EXHIBIT B
                                   LEGAL DESCRIPTION

A parcel of land situate in the Southeast Quarter of Section 23, Township 3 South, Range 1
West, Salt Lake Base and Meridian

Beginning at the southeast corner of Lot 328 of Fox Landing Phase 3 Subdivision recorded
in Book 2022P at Page 110 in the Office of the Salt Lake County Recorder, said point being
South 00°05’05” East 2,165.28 feet along the section line and West 437.70 feet from the
East Quarter Corner of Section 23, Township 3 South, Range 1 West, Salt Lake Base and
Meridian; and running

       thence South 00°05'05" East 101.04 feet;
       thence West 199.30 feet to the southeast corner of Lot 327 of said Fox Landing
Phase 3 Subdivision;
       thence North 06°53'55" East 102.95 feet along the easterly boundary line of said Lot
327 to the southwest corner of said Lot 328;
       thence South 89°38'27" East 186.79 feet along the southerly boundary line of said
Lot 328 to the point of beginning.

Contains 19,621 Square Feet or 0.450 Acres
  EXHIBIT C
VICINITY MAP
 EXHIBIT D
AERIAL MAP
  EXHIBIT E
LAND USE MAP
 EXHIBIT F
ZONING MAP
       EXHIBIT G
APPLICANT QUESTIONAIRE
