                              Development Review Committee
                                  1020 East Pioneer Road
                                    Draper, UT 84020
                                      February 14, 2025

To:              Draper City Planning Commission
                 Business Date: February 27, 2025

From:            Development Review Committee

Prepared By: Nick Whittaker, MCMP, Planner II
             Planning Division
             Community Development Department
             801-576-6522, nick.whittaker@draperutah.gov

Re:     Wellborn Cabinet Inc.– Conditional Use Permit Request
        Application No.: 2024-0454-USE
        Applicant:        Dwight Beckstrand of Beckstrand Law, representing Wellborn
                          Cabinet Inc. & B T B Enterprises LLC.
        Project Location: 12411 S. 265 W. Suite E
        Current Zoning: CBP (Business/Manufacturing Park) Zone
        Acreage:          6.80 Acres (Approximately 296,208 ft2)
        Request:          Request for approval of a Conditional Use Permit in the CBP zone
                          to operate a a business that provides limited wholesale and
                          warehousing.



BACKGROUND AND SUMMARY

This application is a request for approval of a Conditional Use Permit for approximately
6.80 acres located on the east side of 265 W. at approximately 12411 S. 265 W. Suite E
(Exhibits B & C). The property is currently zoned CBP. The applicant is requesting that a
Conditional Use Permit be approved to allow for limited wholesale and warehousing for
furniture and cabinetry.

The property was developed with two primary buildings in 1997 and is part of a platted
development known as the Draper Industrial Park. The buildings are divided into multiple
business suites and Wellborn Cabinet Inc. is located in the southern building on the site in
suite E.




Wellborn Cabinets, Inc.                                           App. # 2024-0454-USE
«Request_Type» Request                        1
ANALYSIS

General Plan and Zoning.

 Table 1                  General Plan and Zoning Designations                        Exhibit
 Existing Land Use        Industrial and Manufacturing                                Exhibit D
 Current Zoning           CBP                                                         Exhibit E
 Proposed Use             Limited wholesale and warehousing
 Adjacent Zoning
    East                  CR (Regional Commercial), CI (Interchange
                          Commercial)
     West                 CBP, M1 (Light Manufacturing)
     North                CBP
     South                CBP

The Industrial and Manufacturing land use designation is characterized as follows:




According to Draper City Municipal Code (DCMC) Section 9-8-020 the purpose of the CBP
zone is to “provide aesthetically attractive planned developments having a mix of office,
research and development, light manufacturing, and limited retail uses. Typical uses in this
zone include offices, clean indoor manufacturing facilities, service retail, restaurants,
athletic clubs, personal service shops, medical offices, office/warehouse buildings, and
research facilities.”

Site Plan Layout. The property is developed with two large commercial buildings (Exhibits F



Wellborn Cabinets, Inc.                                               App. # 2024-0454-USE
«Request_Type» Request                          2
& G). The north building is approximately 54,359 ft2 and the south building is approximately
54,131 ft2. Each Building has multiple units which are leased out to tenants. Wellborn
Cabinets Inc. is located in Unit E of the south building which is approximately 8,224 ft2.
Parking is located between and behind the two buildings and an additional parking lot is
located at the south east corner of the property. Parking is shared by all tenants from both
buildings. Each unit located in the south building has one (1) shipping and receiving dock
bay located at the south side of the unit. Each dock bay is partially recessed into the south
side of the building at an angle and each stall in front of each dock measures
approximately forty (40) feet in depth and thirteen (13) feet in width and is designed to
allow a delivery truck to back up against the loading bay door. The drive isle between the
loading bay stalls and the adjacent parking stalls to the south is approximately twenty-four
(24) feet in width. Delivery truck access to and from the dock bays follows counter-
clockwise around the building.

 Table 2                  Site Plan Design Requirements
 Standard                 DCMC         Proposal           Notes
                          Requirements
 Setbacks-                                                All measurements are
                                                          approximate

     Front                No             40 feet
                          requirement
     Rear                 No             26 feet
                          Requirement

     Side                 No             66 feet
                          Requirement

     Side                 No             74 feet
                          Requirement


Parking. There are adequate parking stalls to meet the parking requirement for the use.
Parking is located between and behind both buildings on the property and an additional
parking lot is located at the south east corner of the property (Exhibit G). Parking is shared
by all tenants in the commercial development. Per DCMC 9-25-100 between 205-249
parking stalls are required based on the known existing uses for the property. The property
has approximately 280 off street parking stalls. The property owner had some areas
striped with parking that do not comply with minimum ordinance requirements, these
stalls are not included in this approximate total. The proposed limited wholesale and
warehousing use requires 4 to 5 stalls based upon the gross square footage of the suite of
approximately 8,224 ft2. As the site is existing, a deviation regarding the additional surplus
of site parking is not required.




Wellborn Cabinets, Inc.                                           App. # 2024-0454-USE
«Request_Type» Request                             3
 Table 3                  Parking Lot Design Requirements
 Standard                 DCMC             Proposal          Notes
                          Requirements
 Parking Required         Between 205 – 280 parking          Existing Site
 (Min/Max)                249 parking      stalls
                          stalls           (Approximate)
 Warehousing              0.5 space per    4 to 5 stalls for
                                  2
                          1,000 ft gross   the proposed
                          floor area       Conditional
                                           Use,
                                           24 to 30
                                           parking stalls
                                           for other
                                           tenants.
 Limited                  1 space per      27 to 32
                                  2
 Manufacturing            1,000 ft gross parking stalls
                          floor area       for other
                                           tenants
 Instruction,             5 spaces per     40 to 48
                                  2
 General                  1,000 ft gross parking stalls
                          floor area       for other
                                           tenants
 Retail                   2.5 spaces per 22 to 26
                          1,000 ft2 gross parking stalls
                          floor area       for other
                                           tenants
 General Office           4 spaces per     38 to 46
                                  2
                          1,000 ft gross parking stalls
                          floor area       for other
                                           tenants
 Medical Service          3 spaces per     25 to 31
                                  2
                          1,000 ft gross   parking stalls
                          floor area       for other
                                           tenants
 Indoor Recreation        3 spaces per     25 to 31parking
                                  2
                          1,000 ft gross stalls for other
                          floor area       tenants

Criteria for Approval. The criteria for review and potential approval of a conditional use
permit request is found in Section 9-5-080(E) of the DCMC. This section depicts the
standard of review for such requests as:




Wellborn Cabinets, Inc.                                              App. # 2024-0454-USE
«Request_Type» Request                           4
        E. Approval Standards: The standards of this subsection shall apply to the issuance
            of a conditional use permit:
         1. A conditional use permit may be issued for a use to be located within a zone
            where the particular conditional use is allowed by the use regulations of the
            zone.
         2. Reasonable conditions may be imposed as necessary to substantially mitigate
            reasonably anticipated detrimental effects of the proposed use. These
            conditions may include conditions concerning use, construction, character,
            location, landscaping, screening, parking, hours of operation, and other matters
            relating to the purposes and objectives of this section. Such conditions shall be
            expressly set forth in the motion authorizing the conditional use permit.
         3. If the reasonably anticipated detrimental effects of a proposed conditional use
            cannot be substantially mitigated by the imposition of reasonable conditions to
            achieve compliance with applicable standards, the conditional use may be
            denied.
         4. The following factors shall be reviewed and considered in determining whether a
            conditional use permit application should be approved, approved with
            conditions, or denied because reasonable conditions cannot be imposed to
            achieve compliance with applicable standards:
              a. The harmony and compliance of the proposed use with the objectives and
                 requirements of the city's general plan and this title;
              b. The suitability of the specific property for the proposed use;
              c. Whether the proposed use or facility may be injurious to potential or existing
                 development in the vicinity;
              d. The economic impact of the proposed facility or use on the surrounding
                 area;
              e. The aesthetic impact of the proposed facility or use on the surrounding area;
              f. The safeguards proposed or provided to ensure adequate utilities,
                 transportation access, drainage, parking, loading space, lighting, screening,
                 landscaping, open space, fire protection, and pedestrian and vehicular
                 circulation;
              g. The safeguards provided or proposed to prevent noxious or offensive
                 emissions such as noise, glare, dust, pollutants and odor from the proposed
                 facility or use; and
              h. The impact of the proposed facility or use on the health, safety, and welfare
                 of the city, the area, and persons owning or leasing property in the area.
         5. The planning commission may request additional information as may be
            reasonably needed to determine whether the requirements of this subsection E
            can be met.

Per DCMC 9-3-040, Limited wholesale and warehousing is defined as:




Wellborn Cabinets, Inc.                                            App. # 2024-0454-USE
«Request_Type» Request                         5
        An establishment that is engaged in the small-scale storage and sale of goods to
        other businesses for resale, excluding self-storage warehouses, major distribution
        centers, motor freight terminals, moving and storage firms and similar high volume,
        high turnover facilities. No outside storage is permitted.

The applicant’s submitted description of business operations can be found in Exhibit H
attached to this report. The applicant’s primary business focus is the manufacturing of
furniture and cabinetry, but with respect to the use of the subject property, the applicant
will conduct only the warehousing and distribution of finished products and will not
conduct any onsite manufacturing. In addition, there will be office space for administrative
staff. The business has five (5) employees who work Monday through Friday from 6:00 am
to 2:30 pm. The business is closed on Saturdays and Sundays. The applicant has made the
following assertions regarding compliance with the standards of Section 9-5-080(E) of the
DCMC (Exhibit H):

    •   That the applicant’s location is situated in a “CBP” zone, which allows for light
        manufacturing, office, and warehouse

    •   That the facility was specifically built for light manufacturing, office and warehouse
        uses.

    •   That the proposed use is not injurious to existing or potential development as the
        existing surrounding businesses are all light industrial, office, or warehousing.

    •   That the proposed use would have a positive impact on the surrounding area.

    •   That the existing facility is aesthetically in line with the other buildings in the area.

    •   That the facility was built with utilities, transportation access, drainage, parking,
        loading space, lighting, screening, landscaping, open space, fire protection and
        pedestrian and vehicular circulation already taken into consideration.

    •   That the facility was built at the location that is suitable for warehouse activities

    •   That the facility and the applicant’s activities have not caused any adverse health,
        safety, or welfare events.

Staff has reviewed the applicant’s initially submitted statements and documentation and
concurs generally with their assertions regarding the proposed operations compliance with
the criteria found in Section 9-5-080(E) of the DCMC.

Staff believes that the most likely potential negative impacts of a limited wholesale and
warehousing use at the subject property would be the potential for noise, vibration, or



Wellborn Cabinets, Inc.                                                App. # 2024-0454-USE
«Request_Type» Request                           6
odor being discernable outside of the building and the impacts that shipping and delivery
operations could pose to neighboring tenants. There are no known noise, vibration, or
odor impacts from the proposed use that have been discernable outside of the building.
The applicant did not indicate in the outline of their business operations how shipping and
delivery operations would operate or how impacts to neighboring businesses might be
mitigated.

Staff has included recommended conditions of approval within the staff recommendations
section of this report, including potential conditions that might be imposed to address
impacts created by shipping and receiving operations.



REVIEWS

Planning Division Review. The Draper City Planning Division has completed their review of
the Conditional Use Permit submission. Comments from this division, if any, can be found
in Exhibit A.

Engineering and Public Works Divisions Review. The Draper City Engineering and Public
Works Divisions have completed their reviews of the Conditional Use Permit submission.
Comments from these divisions, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Building Division Review. The Draper City Building Division has completed their review of
the Conditional Use Permit submission. Comments from this division, if any, can be found
in Exhibit A.

Fire Division Review. The Draper City Fire Marshal has completed his review of the
Conditional Use Permit submission. Comments from this division, if any, can be found in
Exhibit A.

Noticing. Notice has been properly issued in the manner outlined in the City and State
Codes.



STAFF RECOMMENDATION

Staff recommends that the Planning Commission review the request based on the findings
listed below and the criteria for approval, or denial, as listed within the staff report. The
Planning Commission should also hear from the applicant and receive public comment
prior to making a decision.

If the Planning Commission decides to approve the request, staff recommends they include
the following conditions of approval:



Wellborn Cabinets, Inc.                                           App. # 2024-0454-USE
«Request_Type» Request                        7
        1.       That all requirements of the Draper City Engineering, Public Works, Building,
                 Planning, and Fire Divisions are satisfied throughout the development of the
                 site and the construction of all buildings on the site, including permitting.
        2.       That a Draper City business license shall be obtained prior to operating and
                 shall be maintained by the business owner for as long as the business
                 remains in operation.
        3.       That no manufacturing shall take place at the property.
        4.       That shipping and receiving shall only be conducted at Unit E’s designated
                 shipping bay.
        5.       That loading and unloading of deliveries and other use of the shipping and
                 receiving dock bay may not block, interfere with, or otherwise prohibit access
                 to vehicular parking stalls, drive aisles, or the dock bays of other businesses
                 on the property.
        6.       That all storage related to the wholesale and warehousing business
                 operation be located inside the subject suite.
        7.       No additional storage shall be permitted outside of the building or elsewhere
                 on the subject property, including but not limited to shipping containers,
                 trucks, or trailers parked on the property for longer than 12 hours.



MODEL MOTIONS AND FINDINGS

Sample Motion for Approval – I move that we approve the Conditional Use Permit, as
requested by Dwight Beckstrand of Beckstrand Law, representing Wellborn Cabinet Inc.
2024-0454-USE, based on the following findings for approval and subject to the conditions
listed in the Staff Report dated February 14, 2025.

Findings for approval:

    1. The proposal complies with the standards for approval found in DCMC Section 9-5-
       080(E) and potential negative impacts are mitigated through the imposition of
       reasonable conditions.

I move that we approve the Conditional Use Permit, as requested by Dwight Beckstrand of
Beckstrand Law, representing Wellborn Cabinet Inc. 2024-0454-USE, based on the findings
for approval and subject to the conditions listed in the Staff Report dated February 14,
2025 and as modified by the following additional findings or conditions:

    1. (List any additional findings…)
    2. (List any additional or modified conditions…)

Sample Motion for Denial – I move that we deny the Conditional Use Permit, as requested



Wellborn Cabinets, Inc.                                              App. # 2024-0454-USE
«Request_Type» Request                          8
by Dwight Beckstrand of Beckstrand Law, representing Wellborn Cabinet Inc. 2024-0454-
USE, based on the following findings and the criteria for denial as listed in the Staff Report
dated February 14, 2025.

Findings for denial:

    1. The proposal does not comply with all standards for approval found in DCMC
       Section 9-5-080(E) and potential negative impacts are not able to be sufficiently
       mitigated through the imposition of reasonable conditions.




Wellborn Cabinets, Inc.                                             App. # 2024-0454-USE
«Request_Type» Request                         9
                   DEVELOPMENT REVIEW COMMITTEE ACKNOWLEDGEMENT


We, the undersigned, as duly appointed members of the Draper City Development Review
Committee, do acknowledge that the application which provides the subject for this staff
report has been reviewed by the Committee and has been found to be appropriate for
review by the Draper City Planning Commission and/or City Council.


                       OigiUIy signed by Bnen Uai'isiS                                                      OftC-LS.
                       ON: C-US,                                                                            C Biw
                                                                                             Todd A. Draper (M>
  Brien Maxfield
                       S*bifen mestieMi^iefw'iilab gov,
                       0-Dtaper, OU-Po31.e Works -                                                          Oa«        2i
                       Engineering. CN,*Bnen Mailiefd
                       Oate2025 0?.21 lQ:57:27-fl7'00’



Draper City Public Works Department                                                  Draper City Planning Division


                          Digia'Iy      by Don Buck:»y


Don Buckley
                          DN. C            DoCt'iQy^orapor.i/t \jy. 0 ● Oraoor CKy
                          Rre                      Marmot. CN«Oon BwcUoy
                               20» 02 20 IS 43;U 07tH7



Draper City Fire Department

                          Digilally signed by Mattbcsv Symes
                          ON:CeUS.

 Matthew Symes Et-maR.symes@draperulah.gov.
               0<Draper City Corp , CN'MeRhow Symes
                          Oarer 2025-02.20 14:47:44-07’00'



Draper City Building Division
                                      EXHIBIT A
                                 DEPARTMENT REVIEWS

REVIEWS ARE NOT MEANT TO BE AN ALL INCLUSIVE LIST OF POSSIBLE COMMENTS OR
CONDITIONS.



Planning Division Review.
       1.     No additional comments.



Engineering and Public Works Divisions Review.

       1.     Requested CUP does not impact public streets, traffic, or utilities based on
              location beyond normal and expected uses.

Building Division Review.

       1.     No additional comments.

Fire Division Review.

       1.     No additional comments.
  EXHIBIT B
VICINITY MAP
 EXHIBIT C
AERIAL MAP
  EXHIBIT D
LAND USE MAP
 EXHIBIT E
ZONING MAP
EXHIBIT F
SITE PLAN
           Project name: South Valley Warehouse — Nutrastrips
           Applicant: Lionheart Enterprises, LLC, a Utah limited liability company           Project name: South Valley Warehouse — Wellborn Cabinet
                                                                                             Applicant: Wellborn Cabinet, Inc., an Alabama corporation
           Site Address: 12411 South 265 West, Suite C
                                                                                             Site address: 12453 South 265 West, Suite E
                          Draper, Utah 84020                                                               Draper, Utah 84020




                                                      *Nutrastrips*
                                                                            Pacific Bridge
                                         Purple Air                         Advisors



                          2
                                                                                                     Vacant Lot
                          6
                          5                                                                                                                       N
                                                           ~335 ft.
                          W
                          e
                          s
                          t                                                  Airgun Depot
                                         Wellborn Cabinet


                       ~186 ft.
~266 ft.
                                                                Lady Love
                                                                Bridal




                                                           ~705 ft.
 EXHIBIT G
FLOOR PLAN
    createdby:
  5794W.4600
   shopdrawings

                So.
  Hooper, UT 84315
  Office: 801.985.0410




                                                                                           REVISION   DESCRIPTION   DATE
                         BEESLEY | ORMAND PROPERTY MANAGEMENT
                               12375 SOUT 265 WEST STREET
                                   DRAPER, UTAH 84020            14553 S 790 West Unit B
FP-1




                                                                   Bluffdale, UT 84065
                           BUILDING A & BUILDING B FLOOR PLANS       801-662-0909
    createdby:
  5794W.4600
   shopdrawings

                So.
  Hooper, UT 84315
  Office: 801.985.0410




                                                                                          REVISION   DESCRIPTION   DATE
                         BEESLEY | ORMAND PROPERTY MANAGEMENT
                               12375 SOUT 265 WEST STREET
                                   DRAPER, UTAH 84020           14553 S 790 West Unit B
FP-5




                                                                  Bluffdale, UT 84065
                               BUILDING B EAST FLOOR PLAN           801-662-0909
      EXHIBIT H
APPLICANT STATEMENTS
In re Wellborn Cabinet

Conditional Use Permit Application


                 Description of Proposed Use for Conditional Use Permit Application

Wellborn Cabinet, Inc. is seeking a conditional use permit for its operations within 12453 South 265 West,
Unit E, Draper, Utah 84020, which is situated in a CBP zone of Draper City, Utah. The applicant’s primary
business focus is the manufacturing of furniture and cabinetry, but with respect to the site in question and
the at-issue application, the applicant will conduct only warehousing and distribution-related activities and
no manufacturing, with associated office space for administrative staff. The proposed use for this facility
encompasses the following aspects:

    1. Warehouse: The facility will include warehousing space for the storage of materials and finished
       products. This area will be used for inventory management and the efficient handling of incoming
       and outgoing shipments, which aligns with the logistical framework typical of industrial zones.

    2. Office Space: The proposed use also includes designated office space to accommodate
       administrative, managerial, and operational staff. These offices will support the business’s strategic
       and day-to-day operations, facilitating coordination among departments and ensuring streamlined
       production and supply chain processes.

The integration of these uses within a single facility is designed to promote operational efficiency while
maintaining compatibility with the existing character and intended use of the surrounding industrial area.
As discussed in more detail above, the proposed activities are expected to have no detrimental effects on
nearby businesses or traffic inasmuch as the facility was constructed in an area specifically designed to
accommodate the applicant’s type of business.

The applicant’s administrative office hours are generally 6:00 a.m. to 2:30 p.m., Monday through Friday.
The applicant is closed for business on Saturdays and Sundays, both as to the administrative office and the
warehouse. The applicant has five employees. Parking at the facility is ample; the applicant requires
approximately five parking spots at any given time. The facility, between its 12411 and 12453 buildings,
has over 130 parking spots, with substantial overflow parking at the rear of the 12453 building. The
applicant also leases two specific oversized parking spots for two box trucks. The applicant has never
known and has never been advised of a parking shortage of any kind at the facility.
In re Wellborn Cabinet

Conditional Use Permit Application


                                Statement of Compliance with Standards

The applicant is in compliance with the standards set forth in Draper City Municipal Code (DCMC) § 9-5-
080(E)(4), as described below:


Standard from DCMC § 9-5-080(E)(4):                      Applicant Response:

a. The harmony and compliance of the proposed use        The applicant’s location is situated in a “CBP” zone,
with the objectives and requirements of the city’s       which allows for light manufacturing, office, and
general plan and this title                              warehouse
b. The suitability of the specific property for the      The facility was built specifically for light
proposed use                                             manufacturing, office, and warehouse in a “CBP”
                                                         zone
c. Whether the proposed use or facility may be           Nothing at the at-issue location is injurious to
injurious to potential or existing development in the    existing or potential development; surrounding
vicinity                                                 locations/businesses are all light industrial/office/
                                                         warehouse/manufacturing
d. The economic impact of the proposed facility or       The applicant has had a positive economic impact on
use on the surrounding area                              the surrounding area: the facility used by the
                                                         applicant is occupied and rent is being paid, the
                                                         applicant employees many individuals from the
                                                         surrounding area, and the goods warehoused at the
                                                         facility provide a substantial benefit to the applicant’s
                                                         customers
e. The aesthetic impact of the proposed facility or      The facility is aesthetically in line with the other
use on the surrounding area                              buildings in the area and the applicant has done
                                                         nothing to detract from the aesthetics with any build-
                                                         out or signage
f. The safeguards proposed or provided to ensure         The facility was built at the location with all of these
adequate utilities, transportation access, drainage,     matters taken into consideration and has adequate
parking, loading space, lighting, screening,             access, drainage, fire protection, and so forth
landscaping, open space, fire protection, and
pedestrian and vehicular circulation
g. The safeguards provided or proposed to prevent        The facility was built at the location with all of these
noxious or offensive emissions such as noise, glare,     matters taken into consideration and is suitable for
dust, pollutants and odor from the proposed facility     light manufacturing, office, and warehouse activities
or use                                                   of the sort engaged in by the applicant
h. The impact of the proposed facility or use on the     The facility and the applicant’s activities at the
health, safety, and welfare of the city, the area, and   facility have caused no adverse health, safety, or
persons owning or leasing property in the area           welfare events
In re Wellborn Cabinet

Conditional Use Permit Application


                                  Statement of Variance Applicability

No variance is required for the applicant’s proposed and designated use under Draper City Municipal Code
(DCMC) § 9-5-080 inasmuch as the location is zoned “CBP” under DCMC § 9-8-020(C)(6). “CBP” zoning
allows for the following:

       The purpose of the CBP zone is to provide aesthetically attractive planned developments
       having a mix of office, research and development, light manufacturing, and limited retail
       uses. Typical uses in this zone include offices, clean indoor manufacturing facilities, service
       retail, restaurants, athletic clubs, personal service shops, medical offices, office/warehouse
       buildings, and research facilities.

DCMC § 9-8-020(C)(6) (emphasis added).
