                                  Development Review Committee
                                      1020 East Pioneer Road
                                        Draper, UT 84020
                                          June 25, 2025

To:             Draper City Planning Commission
                Business Date: July 10, 2025

From:           Development Review Committee

Prepared By: Nick Whittaker, MCMP, Planner II
             Planning Division
             Community Development Department
             801-576-6522, nick.whittaker@draperutah.gov

Re:     Fratto Farms Commercial – Land Use Map and Zoning Map Amendment Requests
        Application No.: 2025-0101-MA & 2025-0102-MA
        Applicant:        Troy Dana
        Project Location: 791 E. 12200 S.
        Current Zoning: RA2 (Residential Agricultural, 20,000 ft² min. lot size)
        Acreage:          2.03 Acres (Approximately 88,427 ft2)
        Request:          Request for approval of a Land Use Map Amendment to change
                          the current land use designation from Residential Medium
                          Density to Neighborhood Commercial and a Zoning Map
                          Amendment to change the current zoning designation from RA2
                          to CN (Neighborhood Commercial).



BACKGROUND AND SUMMARY

These applications are requests for approval of a Land Use Map Amendment to change the
current land use designation from Residential Medium Density to Neighborhood
Commercial and a Zoning Map Amendment to change the current zoning designation from
RA2 to CN for approximately 2.03 acres located on the north side of 12200 S. at
approximately 791 E. 12200 S. (Exhibits C and D). The applicant is requesting that the
changes be approved so that the applicant can develop the subject property for
commercial use.

The subject property is located within the Draperville Plat, Lots 1 and 8 in their entirety
within Block 23. The Draperville Plat is unique in that it numbers each individual block and



Fratto Farms Commercial                                              App. # 2025-0101-MA
Land Use & Zoning Map Amendment                                             2025-0102-MA
                                                1
then further divides each block into numbered lots. A single-family home which fronts onto
12200 S and two (2) storage sheds were built on the property in approximately 1955. A
detached garage was added to the property in 1976. Additional accessory structures were
added to the property between approximately 2002 and 2004.



ANALYSIS

General Plan and Zoning.
 Table 1                  General Plan and Zoning Designations                 Exhibit
 Existing Land Use        Residential Medium Density                           Exhibit E
 Current Zoning           RA2                                                  Exhibit F
 Adjacent Zoning
    East                  RA2
    West                  RA2 and CN (Neighborhood Commercial)
    North                 RA2
    South                 CN

The Residential Medium Density land use designation is characterized as follows:




Fratto Farms Commercial                                           App. # 2025-0101-MA
Land Use & Zoning Map Amendment                                          2025-0102-MA
                                              2
According to Draper City Municipal Code (DCMC) Section 9-8-020 the purpose of the RA2
zone is to, “foster low density development with little impact on its surroundings and
municipal services; to generally preserve the character of the city's semirural areas; and to
promote and preserve conditions favorable to large lot family life, including the keeping of
limited numbers of animals and fowl. The predominant use in these zones is intended to
be detached single-family dwellings, protected from encroachment by commercial and
industrial uses.”

Land Use Map Amendment. The applicant has requested the Neighborhood Commercial
land use designation for the subject property (Exhibit G). The proposed designation is
compatible with the requested zoning designation of CN (Exhibit H). The Neighborhood
Commercial land use designation is described as follows:




Zoning Map Amendment. The applicant has requested the CN zoning designation for the
subject property (Exhibit H). According to Draper City Municipal Code (DCMC) Section 9-8-
020, the purpose of the CN zone is to “provide areas where convenience buying outlets,
having small trade areas, may be established to serve surrounding residential
neighborhoods. This zone is intended to promote a combination of retail and service
facilities which, in character and scale, meet day to day needs of nearby residents.”

The CN zone requires a minimum zoned area of 1 acre. The subject property is 2.03 acres
in size and abuts additional CN zoned property to the west, which complies with the


Fratto Farms Commercial                                              App. # 2025-0101-MA
Land Use & Zoning Map Amendment                                             2025-0102-MA
                                              3
minimum area requirement for the CN zone.

Criteria for Approval

Land Use Map Amendment:
The Land Use Map amendment request falls under DCMC Section 9-2-020(F) because the
Land Use Map is part of Draper City’s General Plan. That section lists the following criteria
for a General Plan amendment as:

        Plan Amendment: All plan amendments shall be in accordance with Utah Code
        Annotated 10-9a-404, as amended and, unless requested by the city's legislative
        body, shall follow the procedures as outlined in Draper City Municipal Code 9-5-
        060(D). That section is noted as follows:

        D.      Procedure: Zoning text and map amendments shall be considered and
                processed as provided in this subsection:
                1.    A complete application shall be submitted to the office of the Zoning
                      Administrator in a form established by the administrator along with
                      any fee established by the city’s schedule of fees. The application
                      shall include at least the following information:
                      a.      The name, address and telephone number of the applicant
                              and the applicant’s agent, if any.
                      b.      The name and address of every person or company the
                              applicant represents.
                      c.      The requested amendment and reasons supporting the
                              request.
                      d.      If the proposed amendment requires a change in the zoning
                              map, the application shall include:
                              (1)      An accurate property map showing present and
                                       proposed zoning classifications;
                              (2)      All abutting properties showing present zoning
                                       classifications; and
                              (3)      An accurate legal description and an approximate
                                       common address of the area proposed to be rezoned.
                      e.      If the proposed amendment requires a change in the text of
                              this title, the application shall include chapter and section
                              references and a draft of the proposed text.
                2.    After the application is determined to be complete, the zoning
                      administrator shall prepare a staff report evaluating the application.
                3.    The Planning Commission shall schedule and hold a public hearing on
                      the application as provided in sections 9-5-040 and 9-5-045 of this
                      chapter. Following the public meeting, the Planning Commission shall
                      recommend approval, approval with modifications, or denial of the


Fratto Farms Commercial                                              App. # 2025-0101-MA
Land Use & Zoning Map Amendment                                             2025-0102-MA
                                              4
                        proposed amendment and shall submit its recommendation to the
                        City Council for review and decision.
                4.      The City Council shall schedule and hold a public hearing on the
                        application as provided in sections 9-5-040 and 9-5-045 of this
                        chapter. Following the public hearing, the City Council may approve,
                        approve with modifications, or deny the proposed amendment.

Zoning Map Amendment 9-5-060(E)
A Map Amendment is a matter committed to the legislative discretion of the City Council
and is not controlled by any one standard. However, in making a recommendation to the
City Council, the Planning Commission should consider the following factors in Section 9-5-
060(E)(1) of the DCMC:

        1. Map Amendments:
            a. Whether the proposed amendment is consistent with goals, objectives and
               policies of the city's general plan;
            b. Whether the proposed amendment is harmonious with the overall character
               of existing development in the vicinity of the subject property;
            c. Whether the proposed amendment is consistent with the standards of any
               applicable overlay zone;
            d. The extent to which the proposed amendment may adversely affect adjacent
               property; and
            e. The adequacy of facilities and services intended to serve the subject
               property, including, but not limited to, roadways, parks and recreation
               facilities, police and fire protection, schools, stormwater drainage systems,
               water supplies, and wastewater and refuse collection.

In reviewing the applicant’s requests, surrounding land uses and intensities should be
considered, as both the south and west sides of the subject property abut the CN zone. The
commercial development adjacent to the property is more intense than the medium
density presently called for on the subject property which may make commercial
development more feasible or desirable. The applicant has provided statements (Exhibits G
and H) asserting that the proposed CN zoning would harmonize with other developments
near the subject property. In making the requests, the applicant however did not directly
identify any specific goals, objectives, or policies from the City’s General Plan that the
proposals would be consistent with.



REVIEWS

Planning Division Review. The Draper City Planning Division has completed their review of
the Land Use Map and Zoning Map Amendment submissions. Comments from this
division, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.


Fratto Farms Commercial                                               App. # 2025-0101-MA
Land Use & Zoning Map Amendment                                              2025-0102-MA
                                               5
Engineering and Public Works Divisions Review. The Draper City Engineering and Public
Works Divisions have completed their reviews of the Land Use Map and Zoning Map
Amendment submissions. Comments from these divisions, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Building Division Review. The Draper City Building Division has completed their review of
the Land Use Map and Zoning Map Amendment submissions. Comments from this
division, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Fire Division Review. The Draper City Fire Marshal has completed his review of the Land
Use Map and Zoning Map Amendment submissions. Comments from this division, if any,
can be found in Exhibit A.

Legal Division Review. The Draper City Attorney has completed his review of the Land Use
Map and Zoning Map Amendment submissions. Comments from this division, if any, can
be found in Exhibit A.

GIS Division Review. The Draper City GIS Division has completed their review of the Land
Use Map and Zoning Map Amendment Submissions. Comments from this division, if any,
can be found in Exhibit A.

Noticing. Notice has been properly issued in the manner outlined in the City and State
Codes.



STAFF RECOMMENDATION

Staff recommends that the Planning Commission review the request, receive public
comment, and make a recommendation to the City Council based on the findings and
criteria for approval, or denial, as listed within the staff report.



MODEL MOTIONS

Land Use Map Amendment
Sample Motion for Positive Recommendation – I move that we forward a positive
recommendation to the City Council for the Land Use Map Amendment, as requested by
Troy Dana, application 2025-0101-MA, based on the findings for approval listed in the Staff
Report dated June 25, 2025.

Findings for Approval:
1.     The proposed land use map amendment is consistent with goals, objectives, and
       policies of the city's general plan.


Fratto Farms Commercial                                             App. # 2025-0101-MA
Land Use & Zoning Map Amendment                                            2025-0102-MA
                                             6
2.      The proposed land use map amendment is harmonious with the overall character
        of existing development in the vicinity of the subject property.
3.      The proposed land use map amendment will not adversely affect adjacent property.
4.      There are adequate facilities and services intended to serve the subject property,
        including, but not limited to, roadways, parks and recreation facilities, police and fire
        protection, schools, stormwater drainage systems, water supplies, and wastewater
        and refuse collection.
5.      The proposed land use map amendment complies with DCMC Section 9-2-020(F).
6.      The legislative body may adopt any amendment to the general plan land use map
        that the legislative body considers appropriate.

Sample Motion for Modified Positive Recommendation – I move that we forward a positive
recommendation to the City Council for the Land Use Map Amendment, as requested by
Troy Dana, application 2025-0101-MA, based on the findings for approval listed in the Staff
Report dated June 25, 2025 and as modified by the following additional findings:

1.      (List additional findings for approval…)

Sample Motion for Negative Recommendation – I move that we forward a negative
recommendation to the City Council for the Land Use Map Amendment, as requested by
Troy Dana, application 2025-0101-MA, based on the findings for denial listed in the Staff
Report dated June 25, 2025.

Findings for Denial:
1.     The proposed land use map amendment is not consistent with goals, objectives,
       and policies of the city's general plan.
2.     The proposed land use map amendment is not harmonious with the overall
       character of existing development in the vicinity of the subject property.
3.     The proposed land use map amendment will adversely affect adjacent property.
4.     There are not adequate facilities and services intended to serve the subject
       property, including, but not limited to, roadways, parks and recreation facilities,
       police and fire protection, schools, stormwater drainage systems, water supplies,
       and wastewater and refuse collection.
6.     The proposed land use map amendment does not comply with DCMC Section 9-2-
       020(F).
5.     The legislative body may reject any amendment to the general plan land use map
       that the legislative body considers appropriate.

Zoning Map Amendment
Sample Motion for Positive Recommendation – I move that we forward a positive
recommendation to the City Council for approval of the Zoning Map Amendment, as
requested by Troy Dana, application 2025-0102-MA, based on the following findings for
approval listed in the Staff Report dated June 25, 2025.


Fratto Farms Commercial                                                App. # 2025-0101-MA
Land Use & Zoning Map Amendment                                               2025-0102-MA
                                                7
Findings for Approval:
   1. The proposed zoning map amendment is consistent with goals, objectives, and
       policies of the city's general plan.
   2. The proposed zoning map amendment is compatible with the subject properties
       existing Land Use Designation and harmonious with the overall character of existing
       development in the vicinity of the subject property.
   3. The proposed zoning map amendment will not adversely affect adjacent property.
   4. There are adequate facilities and services intended to serve the subject property,
       including, but not limited to, roadways, parks and recreation facilities, police and fire
       protection, schools, stormwater drainage systems, water supplies, and wastewater
       and refuse collection.

Sample Motion for Modified Positive Recommendation – I move that we forward a positive
recommendation to the City Council for the Zoning Map Amendment, as requested by Troy
Dana 2025-0102-MA, based on the findings for approval listed in the Staff Report dated
June 25, 2025 and as modified by the following additional findings:

    1. (List additional findings for approval…)

Sample Motion for Negative Recommendation – I move that we forward a negative
recommendation to the City Council for denial of the Zoning Map Amendment, as
requested by Troy Dana, application 2025-0102-MA, based on the following findings for
denial listed in the Staff Report dated June 25, 2025.

Findings for Denial:
   1. The proposed zoning map amendment is not consistent with goals, objectives, and
       policies of the city's general plan.
   2. The proposed zoning map amendment is not compatible with the subject properties
       existing Land Use Designation and is not harmonious with the overall character of
       existing development in the vicinity of the subject property.
   3. The proposed zoning map amendment will adversely affect adjacent property.
   4. There are not adequate facilities and services intended to serve the subject
       property, including, but not limited to, roadways, parks and recreation facilities,
       police and fire protection, schools, stormwater drainage systems, water supplies,
       and wastewater and refuse collection.




Fratto Farms Commercial                                                App. # 2025-0101-MA
Land Use & Zoning Map Amendment                                               2025-0102-MA
                                               8
                    DEVELOPMENT REVIEW COMMITTEE ACKNOWLEDGEMENT


We, the undersigned, as duly appointed members of the Draper City Development Review
Committee, do acknowledge that the application which provides the subject for this staff
report has been reviewed by the Committee and has been found to be appropriate for
review by the Draper City Planning Commission and/or City Council.

                                                                                                           Digitally signea by Toaa A
                        OiQiWIy s.gned by Brian Mailiold                                                   Draper
                        DN:C-LlS.                                                                          ON:C^.
                        E*arlen.m£U<ia id@draperulah.gov,
  Brien Maxfield 0>Diaper. OU<PuBbc Works -                                           Todd A. Draper
                                                                                                 '
                                                                                                     S*toaadraper®draper.ui.
                                                                                                     O^OraiMT City Pianntfvg.
                        Enginecnng, CN=Bncn Maxtred                                                        CN.ToddA. Draper
                        Date- 2025.07.03 09«328-0600'                                                      OMo: 2025 07.02 U15 5t-06W



Draper City Public Works Department                                             Draper City Planning Divisio

                            Di9it42iy &3n69 &y Don BuCMiey
                            ON' C*US,          biKkioy^crapor ut us. 0-Drapcr

Don Buckley
                            Oty Fire Ocpartrrteni, OU-Firp
                            C.tcUey
                            Dais ?02S 07 0^ 06 4S;33 OCW

Draper City Fire Department                                                     Draper City Legartou^e!
                             Oignally signed by Matthew Symes
                             ON. C.US.
                             E>maS.syires@draperutar gov,
  Matthew Symes              O-DraperCity Coro., CN.Matthew
                             Symes
                             Date-202S 06 30 15:55-45 06'QD'


Draper City Building Division
                                       EXHIBIT A
                                  DEPARTMENT REVIEWS

REVIEWS ARE NOT MEANT TO BE AN ALL INCLUSIVE LIST OF POSSIBLE COMMENTS OR
CONDITIONS.

Planning Division Review.
   1. No additional comments.



Engineering and Public Works Divisions Review.
   1. The change in zone from residential / agricultural half acre (RA2) to neighborhood
      commercial (CN) which is proposing to change from the gross permitted residential
      density of four residences to the proposed commercial uses where traffic loading
      and peak traffic contributions would be increased, but not quantifiable without
      knowing the proposed use. The commercial uses typically represent a significant
      increase in potential demand on the local streets and utilities. The fronting streets
      to the subject site are 12200 South and 800 East, both local streets in this area. The
      nearest classified street, typically the direction of travel, is 700 East, owned by Utah
      Department of Transportation (UDOT) and is classified as an arterial with the
      highest vehicle capacity. Based on the capacity of the fronting public streets, 12200
      South and 800 East, the increase in density represents additional traffic. Mitigation
      measures would be analyzed with a proposed use. Typically, a use where 100 peak
      hour trips are generated triggers the need to have a traffic impact study (TIS)
      completed to analyze mitigation requirements. The size of the subject parcel and
      the potential number of trips generated from a parcel of this size does not
      automatically trigger a TIS. There are no public frontage improvements on either
      fronting public streets and will be a requirement of any site development.

   2. Connectivity with the subject parcel to public rights-of-way could be to both 12200
      South and 800 East, local streets. Access onto either fronting street would be
      permitted potentially by a driveway or private street. Accesses are be required to
      meet Draper City standards as outlined in our Master Transportation Plan and city
      code. Any development will need to be evaluated for access location due to the
      required spacing from the intersection of 800 East and 12200 South. Access is
      evaluated at the time of a site plan or subdivision application.

   3. There are no existing storm drainage facilities fronting the subject parcel. However,
      there are storm drainage facilities in the area, but there is no guarantee that those
      facilities are feasible to connect to from the existing site. Any future site drainage
      will be required to be addressed with any subdivision or site plan application and
      shall comply with the provisions of the development requirements within the DCMC.
   4. Sanitary sewer facilities will be provided by Jordan Basin Improvement District. Any
      subdivision or site plan application will require a commitment to serve from the
      sewer district that facilities are adequate to provide service for the proposed uses.

   5. Drinking water is provided by WaterPro to the subject parcel. Any subdivision or
      site plan application will require a commitment to serve from WaterPro that facilities
      are adequate to provide service for the proposed uses.

Building Division Review.
   1. No additional comments.



Fire Division Review.
   1. No additional comments.



Legal Division Review.
   1. No additional comments.



GIS Division Review.
   1. No additional comments.
                                    EXHIBIT B
                                LEGAL DESCRIPTION


LOTS 1 & 8 BLK 23 DRAPERVILLE
  EXHIBIT C
VICINITY MAP
 EXHIBIT D
AERIAL MAP
  EXHIBIT E
LAND USE MAP
 EXHIBIT F
ZONING MAP
                    EXHIBIT G
APPLICANT’S RESPONSES – LAND USE MAP AMENDMENT
                            Fratto Farms Land Use Map Amendment



                                                                                 January 16, 2025

To whom it may concern;

We own the approximately 2 acres located on 791 E and 12200 S. We are requesting a Land Use
Map Amendment from Low Medium Density to Neighborhood Commercial. This would be in
harmony with the adjacent property as well as one across the street. We feel the use would be
harmonious with the surrounding areas as our border to the west is adjacent to C3 commercial
zone, our border to the south is across the street from C3 commercial zone, our border to the
east is alongside 800 E, our border to the north is adjacent to residential home with a business
on the property. This corner property has roadways for access along 12200 S and 800 E and will
be more than sufficient to enter and exit the property. All utilities are in both 12200 S and 800 E
and will be able to serve the new zoning and future development.



In speaking with several neighbors and members of the City Council, this use is likely the best
use for the property.



We ask that you kindly consider this request and understand that the request is in line with the
General Plan and future growth development.
                                      Land Use Map




                                                                    High Density




                                                              Medium Density



                                                    Subject
                                                                                   High Density




               High Density

                                Neighborhood Commercial




The subject property is surrounded by Neighborhood Commercial and Medium Density Land
Uses. We are requesting a Land Use Map Amendment from Residential Medium Density to
Neighborhood Commercial. We feel the use would be harmonious with the surrounding areas
as our border to the west is adjacent to CN commercial zone, our border to the south is across
the street from CN commercial zone.
                   EXHIBIT H
APPLICANT’S RESPONSES – ZONING MAP AMENDMENT
                                    Fratto Farms Zone Change



                                                                                    June 20, 2025

To whom it may concern;

We own the 2 acres located on 791 E and 12200 S. We are requesting a Zone Change from RA2
to CN, Neighborhood Commercial. This use be in harmony with adjacent properties and
surrounding properties. It would allow for construction of office condos that are similar in the
area. We feel the use would be harmonious with the surrounding areas as our border to the
west is adjacent to CN commercial zone, our border to the south is across the street from CN
commercial zone, our border to the east is alongside 800 E, our border to the north is adjacent
to residential. This corner property has roadways for access along 12200 S and 800 E and will
be more than sufficient to enter and exit the property. All utilities are in both 12200 S and 800 E
and will be able to serve the new zoning and future development.



In speaking with other property owners, they felt like they would support this zone change
more than a zone change to higher density residential. We believe this land use request and
future development is consistent with the General Plan in the surrounding area along 700 E
being highly commercial.

We ask that you kindly consider this request and understand that the request is in line with the
General Plan and future growth development.
                                     Zoning Map




                                                     RM2



                                          RA2
                                          222
                         CN
                                          Subject




                                    CN                        TC

         Commercial




CN 1




The subject property is proposing CN Zone, changing from RA2. The subject property is
adjacent to Neighborhood Commercial and Residential Zones. The subject property is located
on the corner of a Commercial Zones and Residential Zones. The residential RA2 Zone is a
minimum of 20,000 sf lots and the CN zone allows for neighborhood commercial. CN zone is
surrounding the subject property and would keep it in harmony with neighboring properties
and future growth in the area.
