                       CITY COUNCIL AGENDA

                       Tuesday, March 18, 2025, 5:30 PM
                       1020 E. Pioneer Road
                       Draper, Utah 84020
                       Council Chambers
5:30 PM STUDY SESSION

       Closed Session - by Motion
       The Draper City Council may temporarily recess the regular meeting and
       convene in a closed session to discuss pending or reasonably imminent
       litigation, the purchase, exchange, or lease of real property, and/or to discuss a
       proposed development agreement, project proposal, or financing proposal
       related to the development of land owned by the state.

       Discussion: Short-term rentals - Jen Jastremsky, Todd Draper, and Todd
       Taylor

       Report: Major Road Capital Improvement Projects - Scott Cooley

       Report: Parks Capital Improvement Projects - Rhett Ogden

       Discussion: Verizon Wireless Cell Tower at Southfork Park - Kellie Challburg

       Council/Manager Reports

7:00 PM BUSINESS SESSION

1.     Call to Order

2.     Pledge of Allegiance

3.     Presentation
       Overview of the 2025 Utah State Legislative Session - House Representative Cal
       Roberts.

4.     Public Comments
       To be considerate of everyone attending the meeting, public comments will be
       restricted to items that are not listed on this or a future agenda and limited to
       three minutes per person. Comments which cannot be made within these limits
       should be submitted in writing to the City Recorder prior to noon the day before
       the meeting. Comments pertaining to an item on the agenda should not be
       given at this time but should be held until that item is called.
5.   Consent Items

     5.a Approval of the March 4, 2025 City Council Meeting Minutes.

     5.b Approval of Resolution #25-11
         A Resolution amending the Consolidated Fee Schedule of Draper City. Staff
         report by John Vuyk.

     5.c Approval of Resolution #25-12
         A Resolution of the Draper City Council approving the bylaws of the Metro
         Fire Agency. Staff report by Chief Smith.

     5.d Approval of Resolution #25-13
         A Resolution of the Draper City Council disposing of property seized as
         evidence in accordance with Utah Code Section 77-11a-402. Staff report by
         John Vuyk.

6.   Items for Council Consideration

     6.a Public Hearing: Ordinance #1639
         An Ordinance of Draper City amending the text of the land use and
         development code of the Draper City Municipal Code relating to deviations
         for government buildings. Staff report by Jennifer Jastremsky.

7.   Action Items

     7.a Interview applicants for the Traverse Ridge Special Service District
         Administrative Control Board

8.   Adjournment
I, the City Recorder of Draper City, certify that copies of this agenda for the Draper City
Council meeting to be held March 18, 2025, were posted at Draper City Hall, Draper City
website www.draperutah.gov, and the Utah Public Notice website at www.utah.gov/pmn.




                                              Nicole Smedley, CMC, City Recorder
                                              Draper City, State of Utah



In compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act, any individuals needing special
accommodations or services during this meeting shall notify Nicole Smedley, City
Recorder at (801) 576-6502 or nicole.smedley@draperutah.gov, at least 24 hours prior to
the meeting.
