                                 Development Review Committee
                                     1020 East Pioneer Road
                                        Draper, UT 84020
                                       December 1, 2025

To:               Draper City Planning Commission
                  Business Date: December 11, 2025

From:             Development Review Committee

Prepared By: Nick Whittaker, MCMP, Planner II
             Planning Division
             Community Development Department
             801-576-6522, Nick.Whittaker@draperutah.gov



Re:      Jim Duncan Fence - Conditional Use Permit Request
         Application No.: 2025-0233-USE
         Applicant:        Jim Duncan
         Project Location: 12136 S. 800 E
         Current Zoning: RA2 (Residential Agricultural, 20,000 ft² lot minimum) Zone
         Acreage:          Approximately 0.50 Acres (21,780ft2)
         Request:          Request for approval of a Conditional Use Permit to allow for a
                           fence taller than six feet (6’) in height.



BACKGROUND AND SUMMARY

This application is a request for approval of a Conditional Use Permit for approximately 0.50
acres located on the west side of 800 East at approximately 12136 S. 800 E. (Exhibit B & C).
The property is currently zoned RA2. The applicant is requesting that a Conditional Use
Permit be approved to allow an eight-foot (8’) tall fence to be installed. The purpose of the
fence is to provide a barrier around a sports court.

The Subject property includes two separate parcels, which pre-date the incorporation of the
City in 1978. There is a single-family home on the front parcel built in 1978, and two detached
accessory structures on the rear parcel built in 1982 and 1987. Both properties have been
historically considered one property and used in conjunction with each other. Additionally,
both parcels together constitute all of Lot 7, Block 23 of the Draperville Plat.




Jim Duncan Fence                                                    App. No. 2025-0233-USE
Conditional Use Permit Request                1
ANALYSIS

General Plan and Zoning.

 Table 1                    General Plan and Zoning Designations                  Exhibit
 Existing Land Use          Residential Medium Density                            Exhibit D
 Current Zoning             RA2                                                   Exhibit E
 Existing Use               Single Family Residential
 Adjacent Zoning
    East                    RA2
    West                    RA2
    North                   RA2
    South                   RA2

The Residential Medium Density land use designation is characterized as follows:




Jim Duncan Fence                                                   App. No. 2025-0233-USE
Conditional Use Permit Request                   2
According to Draper City Municipal Code (DCMC) Section 9-8-020: “The purpose of the RA1
and RA2 zones is to foster low density development with little impact on its surroundings
and municipal services; to generally preserve the character of the city's semirural areas; and
to promote and preserve conditions favorable to large lot family life, including the keeping
of limited numbers of animals and fowl. The predominant use in these zones is intended to
be detached single-family dwellings, protected from encroachment by commercial and
industrial uses.

Fencing. The site plan (Exhibit F) shows that the proposed fencing is located on a residential
lot that does not have a primary residential structure. The proposed fence is eight feet (8’)
in height and the purpose of the fence is to enclose a sports court. The north side of the
proposed fencing is set back approximately sixty-one feet (61’) from the north property
line. The east side of the proposed fencing is set back approximately nine feet (9’) from the
east property line. The south side of the proposed fencing is set back approximately
twenty-five feet (25’) from the south property line. The west side of the proposed fencing is
set back approximately one-hundred and eight feet (108’) from the west property line. At
no point will the proposed fence be used as a perimeter fence for the property. The
proposed fencing material is chain link with black vinyl coating.

Subsection 9-27-080(A) in the DCMC states:

         A. Height: A fence, wall, or other visual obstruction, excluding trees, shall comply with
            the following:

                  1. When located within the required front yard a fence, wall, or other visual
                     obstruction, not including trees shall not exceed four feet (4') in height
                     unless a greater height is allowed by a conditional use permit or as
                     otherwise permitted in this title.

                  2. When located behind the front wall plane a fence, wall, or other visual
                     obstruction, not including trees, shall not exceed six fee (6') in height
                     unless a greater height is allowed by a conditional use permit or as
                     otherwise permitted in this title.

Subsection 9-27-080(E) in the DCMC states:

         E.    Other Visual Obstructions: Fences, walls, and other visual obstructions, not
              including trees, between six feet (6') and ten feet (10') in height shall be allowed
              only behind the front wall plane, and shall require a conditional use permit. Any
              such visual obstruction over six feet (6') in height must meet the setback
              requirements for accessory buildings unless otherwise permitted by a conditional
              use permit, except that no wall shall be constructed within a utility easement
              without the prior written permission of all affected utility companies. No fences,



Jim Duncan Fence                                                       App. No. 2025-0233-USE
Conditional Use Permit Request                    3
             walls, or other visual obstructions over ten feet (10') in height are allowed,
             excluding trees.

The applicant is requesting an eight-foot (8’) fence to enclose a sports court. The requested
height of the fence requires the applicant to obtain a conditional use permit. Staff has
reviewed the applicants request and finds that the potential for detrimental effects would
be related to the use, construction, and location of the fence.

Potential impacts related to the use of an eight-foot (8’) fence to enclose a sports court is
minimal. In addition, the proposed use is not uncommon in residential areas of Draper City
and poses little if any impact to the residential character of the surrounding neighborhood
or be considered incompatible within the RA2 zone.

There are potential impacts related to safety regarding the construction of the proposed
fence. However, these potential impacts are mitigated by the City requiring that a fence
which is greater than seven-feet in height (7’) requires the submission of a building permit
application which is reviewed by Draper City Staff before a building permit is issued and the
fence is installed.

Staff does recognize that the proposed location of the fence would typically be considered
as having detrimental impact to the character of the residential area as is it appears to be
located in the front yard area (Exhibits C & G), however, there is not a front yard plane at the
subject property which makes the proposed location compliant with the standards found in
DCMC Subsection 9-27-080(E). Staff notes that the reason for this is that the subject property
is one of two separate properties located on a single Lot, both of which pre-date the
incorporation of the City in 1978. Both properties are also under the same ownership and
have been historically considered to be one property and used in conjunction with each
other. These details affect the determination of the front yard area as the subject property
does not front a street or contain a residential structure wherein a front yard plane could be
established, while the other property does contain a residential structure which fronts 800
East (Exhibit C). In addition, Staff believes that the location of the proposed fence actually
helps to mitigate visual impacts to the subject property, neighboring properties and to the
residential character of the surrounding neighborhood as the location is almost completely
screened from 800 East by the residential structure on the applicant’s other property and is
significantly set back from neighboring property lines.

Criteria For Approval.
The criteria for review and potential approval of a conditional use permit request are found
in Section 9-5-080(E) of the DCMC. This section depicts the standard of review for such
requests as:

    E. Approval Standards: The standards of this subsection shall apply to the issuance of a
       conditional use permit:



Jim Duncan Fence                                                     App. No. 2025-0233-USE
Conditional Use Permit Request                 4
         1. A conditional use permit may be issued for a use to be located within a zone where
            the particular conditional use is allowed by the use regulations of the zone.
         2. Reasonable conditions may be imposed as necessary to substantially mitigate
            reasonably anticipated detrimental effects of the proposed use. These conditions
            may include conditions concerning use, construction, character, location,
            landscaping, screening, parking, hours of operation, and other matters relating to
            the purposes and objectives of this section. Such conditions shall be expressly set
            forth in the motion authorizing the conditional use permit.
         3. If the reasonably anticipated detrimental effects of a proposed conditional use
            cannot be substantially mitigated by the imposition of reasonable conditions to
            achieve compliance with applicable standards, the conditional use may be denied.
         4. The following factors shall be reviewed and considered in determining whether a
            conditional use permit application should be approved, approved with conditions,
            or denied because reasonable conditions cannot be imposed to achieve
            compliance with applicable standards:
            a. The harmony and compliance of the proposed use with the objectives and
                requirements of the city's general plan and this title;
            b. The suitability of the specific property for the proposed use;
            c. Whether the proposed use or facility may be injurious to potential or existing
                development in the vicinity;
            d. The economic impact of the proposed facility or use on the surrounding area;
            e. The aesthetic impact of the proposed facility or use on the surrounding area;
            f. The safeguards proposed or provided to ensure adequate utilities,
                transportation access, drainage, parking, loading space, lighting, screening,
                landscaping, open space, fire protection, and pedestrian and vehicular
                circulation;
            g. The safeguards provided or proposed to prevent noxious or offensive
                emissions such as noise, glare, dust, pollutants and odor from the proposed
                facility or use; and
            h. The impact of the proposed facility or use on the health, safety, and welfare of
                the city, the area, and persons owning or leasing property in the area.
         5. The planning commission may request additional information as may be
            reasonably needed to determine whether the requirements of this subsection E
            can be met.


REVIEWS

Planning Division Review. The Draper City Planning Division has completed their review of
the Conditional Use Permit submission. Comments from this division, if any, can be found in
Exhibit A.

Engineering and Public Works Divisions Review. The Draper City Engineering and Public



Jim Duncan Fence                                                    App. No. 2025-0233-USE
Conditional Use Permit Request                 5
Works Divisions have completed their reviews of the Conditional Use Permit submission.
Comments from these divisions, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Building Division Review. The Draper City Building Division has completed their review of the
Conditional Use Permit submission. Comments from this division, if any, can be found in
Exhibit A.

Fire Division Review. The Draper City Fire Marshal has completed his review of the
Conditional Use Permit submission. Comments from this division, if any, can be found in
Exhibit A.

Noticing. Notice has been properly issued in the manner outlined in the City and State Codes.


STAFF RECOMMENDATION

Staff recommends that the Planning Commission review the request, receive public
comment, and approve the Conditional Use Permit based on the findings for approval and
the criteria for approval as listed within this staff report.

If the Planning Commission decides to approve the request, staff recommends they include
the following conditions of approval:

    1. That all requirements of the Draper City Engineering, Building and Planning Divisions
       are satisfied throughout the construction of the fence, including permitting.
    2. That the fencing shall not exceed eight-feet (8’) in height and shall be constructed in
       the location indicated on the approved site plan.
    3. That the applicant or their contractor shall obtain a building permit for the installation
       of the fencing.



MODEL MOTIONS AND FINDINGS

Sample Motion for Approval – I move that we approve the Conditional Use Permit, as
requested by Jim Duncan, Application 2025-0233-USE, based on the following findings for
approval and subject to the conditions listed in the staff report dated December 1, 2025.

Findings for approval:

    1. Reasonable mitigation measures are placed on the conditional use to alleviate
       anticipated detrimental effects.




Jim Duncan Fence                                                     App. No. 2025-0233-USE
Conditional Use Permit Request                  6
Sample Motion for Modified Approval – I move that we approve the Conditional Use Permit,
as requested by Jim Duncan, Application 2025-0233-USE, based on the findings for approval
and conditions listed in the staff report dated December 1, 2025, including the following
additional findings or conditions:

    1. List any additional findings…
    2. List any additional conditions…

Sample Motion for Denial – I move that we deny the Conditional Use Permit, as requested
by Jim Duncan, Application 2025-0233-USE, based on the following findings for denial:

Findings for denial:

    1. Reasonable mitigation measures are not able to be placed on the conditional use to
       sufficiently alleviate anticipated detrimental effects.




Jim Duncan Fence                                                App. No. 2025-0233-USE
Conditional Use Permit Request              7
                    DEVELOPMENT REVIEW COMMITTEE ACKNOWLEDGEMENT


We, the undersigned, as duly appointed members of the Draper City Development Review
Committee, do acknowledge that the application which provides the subject for this staff
report has been reviewed by the Committee and has been found to be appropriate for
review by the Draper City Planning Commission and/or City Council.

                                                                                                       DfgtefV       by Todd Draper
                                                                                                       DN.CoLJS,
                         DIgtiaJly signed by Brion Ma^ftoid                                            E^^odd                     qcv.
                         DN C-US,                                                                                Oiy Commijniry
                         Esbfien. m axf ieid(§^draperu:ah. gov,
   Brien Maxfield OoOraper, OU-Public Works ●                                      Todd Draper OU^Ptonfiing and Zoning,
                                                                                                       DeveiopiMflt Odpanmeni,

                                                                                                       CN>ToddDrap$f
                         Engineering, CN»Brien Mailield                                                oat- 202512 03 16'aS 34 07W
                         Date: 2026.12.04 09:0252-07*00‘


Draper City Public Works Department                                         Draper City Planning Division


                            OiglieT       by Oon BwCKJn


Don Buckley
                            OH C*US, C«don buoday^ae*' Jt us.         Cay
                            Ar»0«p3n‘n*n(, OU^«         CN»Oon OgCUty
                             Oaie;2Q2S '203 1$»47-orw




Draper City Fire Department                                                  raper O

                           Digitally signed by Matthew Symes
                           DN;C-US,

 Matthew Symes 0>Draper City Corp., CN>Matlhow Syines
                           E>mail.symos@d'aperuiah.gov.

                           Dale   202S.12.03 16:53;03-0700'



Draper City Building Division
                                     EXHIBIT A
                                DEPARTMENT REVIEWS

REVIEWS ARE NOT MEANT TO BE AN ALL-INCLUSIVE LIST OF POSSIBLE COMMENTS OR
CONDITIONS.



Planning Division Review.

       1.     No additional comments provided.

Engineering and Public Works Divisions Review.

       1.     No additional comments provided.

Building Division Review.

       1.     No additional comments provided.

Fire Division Review.

       1.     No additional comments provided.
  EXHIBIT B
VICINITY MAP
 EXHIBIT C
AERIAL MAP
  EXHIBIT D
LAND USE MAP
 EXHIBIT E
ZONING MAP
EXHIBIT F
SITE PLAN
      EXHIBIT G
APPLICANT STATEMENTS
                                                                            September 24, 2025



The site plan for the installation of 8’ Tall Black Chain-link Fencing and Gate to enclose the
Sports Court at the address below is accurate, complete and meets the conditional use permit
approval standards.


                                      Parcel: 2829156010
                                          Jim Duncan
                                       12136 So. 800 E.
                                       Draper, UT 84020




Sincerely,




NATALIE DAVIS | Office Manager
natalie.davis@superiorfenceandrail.com
Superior Fence & Rail of Utah
2921 West Parkway Blvd.
West Valley City, UT 84119

O: 801-441-0635
W: superiorfenceandrail.com
