MEMO
To: Planning Commission
From: Todd Draper, AICP
Date: 2025-12-11
Re: Public Hearing: Pinnacle Towers Conditional Use Permit Amendment (Administrative
Item).


Comments:

This application is a request for approval of a Conditional Use Permit amendment for
approximately 0.90 acres located on the east side of Minuteman Dr., at approximately
16211 S Minuteman Dr. The property is currently zoned M2 (Major Manufacturing). The
applicant is requesting that an amendment be approved to remove a condition of
approval related to review of the permit at 25-year intervals.

Findings for Approval:
  1. The proposed use is allowed in the M2 zone and the specific property is suitable for
     the proposed use.
  2. Reasonable conditions have been imposed that substantially mitigate the
     reasonably anticipated detrimental effects of the proposed use.
  3. The proposed use is in harmony with the objectives and requirements of the city's
     general plan and the zoning ordinance.
  4. The proposed use will not be injurious to potential or existing development in the
     vicinity.
  5. The proposed changes do not create additional aesthetic impacts to the
     surrounding area.
  6. The request will not be detrimental to the health, safety or general welfare of the
     city, the area, or persons owning or leasing property in the area.
  7. The lattice tower design is suitable in light of the particular circumstances
     associated with this location.

Findings for Denial:
  1. The specific property is not suitable for the proposed use.
  2. Reasonable conditions are not able to be imposed that substantially mitigate the
     reasonably anticipated detrimental effects of the proposed use.
  3. The proposed use is not in harmony with the objectives and requirements of the
     city's general plan or the zoning ordinance.
  4. The proposed use is injurious to potential or existing development in the vicinity.
  5. The proposed changes aesthetically impact the surrounding area.
  6. The request will be detrimental to the health, safety or general welfare of the city,
     the area, or persons owning or leasing property in the area.
  7. The lattice tower design is not suitable in light of the particular circumstances
     associated with this location.


ATTACHMENTS:

Staff Report -PC 2025-0238-USE - Final.pdf
