MINUTES OF THE DRAPER CITY COUNCIL RETREAT HELD ON TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 10,
2026, AT DRAPER CITY HALL, 1020 EAST PIONEER ROAD, DRAPER, UTAH

PRESENT:    Mayor Troy K. Walker, and Councilmembers Kathryn Dahlin, Bryn
            Heather Johnson, Tasha Lowery, and Fred Lowry
EXCUSED:    Councilmember Mike Green
STAFF:      Mike Barker, City Manager; Kellie Challburg, Assistant City Manager;
            Scott Cooley, Public Works Director/Engineer; Traci Gundersen, City
            Attorney; Rhett Ogden, Parks and Recreation Director; Linda Peterson,
            Communication Director; Nicole Smedley, City Recorder; Clint Smith,
            Fire Chief; Jake Sorensen, Network Manager; John Vuyk, Finance
            Director



  1. Closed Meeting
     Councilmember F. Lowry motioned to go into a closed meeting to discuss the
     purchase, exchange or lease of real property and security systems.
     Councilmember Johnson seconded the motion.

     A roll call vote was taken. The motion passed unanimously.
                                         Yes No      Absent
     Councilmember Green                            Excused
     Councilmember Johnson                X
     Councilmember T. Lowery              X
     Councilmember F. Lowry               X
     Councilmember Dahlin                 X

  2. Priorities Discussion
     Budget
     Finance Director John Vuyk showed property tax rates and trends for cities in
     the area. He stated the current Draper tax rate was 0.0009360. The Council,
     Mayor, and staff discussed special service taxing districts for police and fire
     services versus City property tax increases, and the importance of messaging.
     The group discussed a $1.4 million budget deficit for the next fiscal year, a gap
     that would be filled by drawing from the City’s reserve funds. Councilmember
     T. Lowery said she preferred small annual property tax increases as opposed
     to special service district taxing districts. Staff commented that the costs of the
     basics to do the job (police and fire services) were rising much faster than the

                                                                              1|Page
       Draper City Council DRAFT Meeting Minutes – February 10, 2026
City’s ability to generate revenue. Councilmember Dahlin said she believed
many residents did not understand that the Draper City rate only represented
a portion of the property tax statement, and that Draper City had not
increased its tax rate as much as some of the other entities on the statement.

The Council discussed budget-related bills under consideration in the current
Legislative Session. The Council and staff discussed property tax revenue lost
for the current fiscal year and discussed taxes from The Point and the need to
obtain funding for services at The Point. Staff asked if the Council was
interested in implementing a Transportation Utility Fee to help fund road
maintenance and construction. Mayor Walker expressed support for
beginning the process with a study.

The Council took a short break for dinner.

Public Works Department
Public Works Director Scott Cooley suggested using a sprung building on the
north side of Galena Park in addition to the existing Public Works facility to add
needed space and save on the cost of one big new building. He suggested
scheduling a tour of an existing sprung building for the Council. Mayor Walker
expressed support for using a sprung building. Councilmember T. Lowery said
she would want to use as little of the park space as possible. Responding to a
question from Councilmember F. Lowry, staff said a sprung building could be
used as a fire station.

Fire Department Needs
City Manager Mike Barker said the Fire Department had a need for training
facilities, meeting rooms, and administrative space. Mr. Barker said staff had
explored different ideas, including adding on to existing office space currently
rented by the City, purchasing and converting a home for Fire Department use,
and utilizing a sprung structure. Fire Chief Clint Smith emphasized the
Department’s need for more space, and proposed purchasing the building
currently rented by the City to centralize administration. He said the building
was not currently for sale, but he had discussed the possibility with the
property owner. The Council discussed the possibility of putting a sprung
structure for the Fire Department near City Hall. A majority of the Council
indicated support for scheduling further discussion of the topic.




                                                                        2|Page
Town Center Community Buildings
Mayor Walker said the City owned 10 acres near City Hall, and listed groups
that had shown interest in using a portion of the land over the years. He
mentioned the possibility of using some of the land for a sprung building for
the Fire Department, and asked for Council feedback on use of the space. The
Council discussed ongoing maintenance costs for any new City facility.

Mayor Walker asked if the Council would want to master plan the 10 acres. Mr.
Barker commented that the Station Area Plan (SAP) provided a plan for the
area. Councilmember F. Lowry said he was not sure the location would be best
used for a permanent fire station, but said he would be comfortable with
temporary space for the Fire Department. The Council discussed a proposal to
use some of the land for a museum. Councilmember Johnson commented that
a place needed to be found to store Historical Society artifacts.

Mayor Walker suggested sharing the message that the City did not intend to
participate in land deals for the 10 acres at that time. Councilmember T.
Lowery said the City had invested a lot in preserving the public land, and
suggested the acres may need to remain open space over time to offset the
density included in the SAP. A majority of the Council expressed agreement
with preserving the 10 acres of City-owned land at that time.

Enterprise Fund Rates
Mayor Walker commented that the Council privatized solid waste collection on
private streets in 2025, which resulted in a rate increase for those residents.
Mr. Vuyk showed revenue and expense data for enterprise funds, and said
staff would bring back proposals for the funds to break even. Mayor Walker
pointed out solid waste collection rates had not been raised since the City
began providing the service, and said the cost of the trucks had increased
significantly. The Council discussed enterprise fund-related legislation.
Councilmember F. Lowry suggested comparing the cost of the City continuing
to provide solid waste disposal service and the cost of contracting the service.
A majority of the Council indicated agreement.

Staff Interaction Policy
Mayor Walker explained that some of the City committees wanted staff to
attend their meetings and be part of committee operations. He said the
citizen-appointed committees (created by the Mayor and approved by the

                                                                      3|Page
Council) did not spend money or appropriate money, and expressed the
opinion that staff-time should not be used on committee operations. Mr.
Barker said staff members had been summoned to committee meetings for
discussion of topics beyond committee scope, and suggested either
committee scope should be changed or activities needed to be reined in.
Councilmember Johnson said there had been some confusion about staff
involvement with the Tree Committee, and said she had explained to the
committee there should really only be one staff member involved to record
and take minutes. Councilmember Johnson suggested it would be helpful to
explain the policy to each committee.

Councilmember T. Lowery suggested the Council review the goals and scope
of the different committees. The Council discussed the possibility of changing
the name and scope of some of the committees, with addition of the goal of
beautification. Mr. Barker suggested starting with discussion of the Tree
Committee at a future study session.

Historical Society
Councilmember Johnson pointed out that the role and specific responsibility
of the Historical Society was not written in Code, and said it was unclear if the
Historical Society was part of the City or an independent entity. She stated that
the Historical Society currently utilized a City facility and a member of staff.
Councilmember Johnson suggested giving the Historical Society a choice
between being independent or under the umbrella of the City. The Council
discussed similarities between the Historical Society and the Arts Council. A
majority of the Council indicated support for scheduling further discussion in
study session.

Short-Term Rentals
Councilmember F. Lowry said he had been asked by multiple residents about
short-term rentals, and commented that the City did not currently have a way
to enforce short-term rentals. Mr. Barker said staff were working on a draft
ordinance to present to the Council for consideration.

Farmers Market
The Council and staff discussed the possibility of changing the location of the
summer farmers market events. Councilmembers T. Lowery and F. Lowry
suggested Saturday mornings would be better than Tuesday evenings. Staff
responded that Saturday mornings would put the market in competition with

                                                                       4|Page
  many other farmers markets in the area. Councilmember F. Lowry suggested
  Monday evenings. Councilmember T. Lowery suggested shopping around for
  a different group that would be willing to hold the market on Saturday
  mornings. A majority of the Council expressed agreement with asking the
  market to try Smith Fields Park again in 2026.

  Rodeo Ticket Prices
  The Council and staff discussed a proposal to charge $15 for tickets to the
  rodeo, without a child discount. Assistant City Manager Kellie Challburg said
  $15 was comparatively low for a rodeo ticket price. She shared the idea of
  charging a premium price for tickets in the first three rows. A majority of the
  Council appeared to be in support.

3. Adjournment
   Councilmember T. Lower moved to adjourn the meeting. Councilmember
   Dahlin seconded the motion, which passed by unanimous vote.

  The meeting adjourned at 6:57 p.m.




                                                                       5|Page
