MEMO
To: Planning Commission
From: Nick Whittaker, MCMP
Date: 2026-02-26
Re: Public Hearing: The Break Site Plan & Cross Access Deviation Request (Administrative
Item)


Comments:


This application is a request for approval of a Site Plan for approximately 1.02 acres
located on the west side of 700 E. at approximately 12240 S. 700 E. The property is
currently zoned CC. The applicant is requesting that a Site Plan and a Cross Access
Deviation be approved to allow for the development of a bar establishment.


Cross Access Deviation


Findings for approval:

  1. The request meets the criteria for a deviation from the requirement to provide cross
     access as described in Section 9-5-080(G) of the DCMC.


Findings for denial:

  1. The request does not meet the criteria for a deviation from the requirement to
     provide cross access as described in Section 9-5-080(G) of the DCMC.

Site Plan

Findings for approval:
  1. The site plan reflects the full development of the property.
  2. The site plan conforms to applicable standards set forth in ordinance, including but
     not limited to, building heights, setbacks, access points, parking, landscaping, and
     building materials.
  3. The proposed development plans meet the intent, goals, and objectives of the
     general plan and the purpose of the CC zoning district in which the site is located.
  4. The public facilities and services in the area are adequate to support the subject
     development, as required by engineering standards and specifications.
  5. The proposed development plans will comply with the engineering standards found
     in Titles 7, 8, 11, 12, 16, and 18 of the DCMC, including traffic, storm water drainage,
     and utilities concerns.


Findings for denial:

  1. The site plan does not reflect the full development of the property.
  2. The site plan does not conform to applicable standards set forth in ordinance,
     including but not limited to, building heights, setbacks, access points, parking,
     landscaping, and building materials
  3. The proposed development plans do not meet the intent, goals, and objectives of
     the general plan and the purpose of the CC zoning district in which the site is
     located.
  4. The public facilities and services in the area are not adequate to support the subject
     development, as required by engineering standards and specifications.
  5. The proposed development plans will not comply with the engineering standards
     found in Titles 7, 8, 11, 12, 16, and 18 of the DCMC, including traffic, storm water
     drainage, and utilities concerns.




ATTACHMENTS:

the break site plan report.pdf
