MEMO
To: Planning Commission
From: Maryann D. Pickering, AICP
Date: 2026-04-23
Re: Public Hearing: Bassett Furniture Site Plan and Deviations Request (Administrative
Item)


Comments:


This application is a request for approval of a Site Plan for approximately 1.24 acres
located on the east side of Lone Peak Parkway and South of Ikea Way, at approximately
51 W. Ikea Way. The property is currently zoned CSD-DRC. The applicant is requesting
that a Site Plan and Parking Deviation be approved to allow for the development of the
currently vacant site as a retail building with a furniture showroom and small storage
space.



As part of the CSD-DRC, the proposed building is subject to the specific requirements of
that zone, including but not limited to, parking, required landscaping, and landscape
buffers. The applicant is requesting a reduction to parking requirements as well as review
and approval from the Planning Commission that the proposed site plan is substantially
in accordance with the schematic development plan provided in ordinance.

Parking Deviation:
Findings for approval:
  1. Adequate parking will be provided;
  2. The total number of spaces that would otherwise be required for each individual
     establishment in the development is overly burdensome for the site specific factors
     of the application;
  3. Estimated trade offs between businesses which are open when others are closed
     will not overburden the parking provided;
  4. There is an adequate availability of approved on street or shared parking for all
     associated uses;
  5. Site or use specific conditions or factors do not provide for compliance with the
     parking calculation used or parking requirements outlined in Section 9-25-100, Table
     9-25-1 of this chapter;
  6. Transportation alternatives, including proximity to transit stations, provide adequate
     transportation to offset any reduction in parking;
  7. Any potential for future expansion or addition to the development will have or will
     provide adequate parking for that expansion or addition; and
  8. ADA compliant parking requirements are not proposed for adjustment.

Findings for denial:
  1. Adequate parking will not be provided;
  2. The total number of spaces that would otherwise be required for each individual
     establishment in the development is not burdensome for the site specific factors of
     the application;
  3. Estimated trade offs between businesses which are open when others are closed
     will overburden the parking provided;
  4. There is not an adequate availability of approved on street or shared parking for all
     associated uses;
  5. Site or use specific conditions or factors do provide for compliance with the parking
     calculation used or parking requirements outlined in Section 9-25-100, Table 9-25-1
     of this chapter;
  6. Transportation alternatives, including proximity to transit stations, do not provide
     adequate transportation to offset any reduction in parking;
  7. Any potential for future expansion or addition to the development will not have or
     will not provide adequate parking for that expansion or addition; or
  8. ADA compliant parking requirements are proposed for adjustment.

Site Plan:
Findings for approval:
  1. The proposal represents development of the entire site at one time.
  2. With the imposed conditions, and approval of a parking deviation, the site plan
      conforms to applicable standards set forth in Title 9 of the DCMC, including but not
      limited to, building heights, setbacks, access points, parking, landscaping, and
      building materials.
  3. The proposed development plans meet the intent, goals, and objectives of the
      general plan and the purpose of the zone district in which the site is located.
  4. The public facilities and services in the area are adequate to support the subject
      development, as required by engineering standards and specifications.
  5. The proposed development plans comply with the engineering standards found in
      Titles 7, 8, 11, 12, 16, and 18 of the DCMC, including traffic, storm water drainage,
      and utilities concerns.

Findings for denial:
  1. The site plan does not conform to one or more applicable standards set forth in
     Title 9 of the DCMC, including but not limited to, building heights, setbacks, access
     points, parking, landscaping, or building materials.
  2. The proposed development plans do not meet the intent, goals, and objectives of
     the general plan or the purpose of the zone district in which the site is located.
  3. The public facilities and services in the area are not adequate to support the subject
     development, as required by engineering standards and specifications.
  4. The proposed development plans do not comply with all engineering standards
     found in Titles 7, 8, 11, 12, 16, and 18 of the DCMC, including traffic, storm water
     drainage, or utility concerns.


ATTACHMENTS:

04-23-2026 PC Report (Bassett).pdf
