MINUTES OF THE DRAPER CITY PLANNING COMMISSION MEETING HELD ON THURSDAY,
NOVEMBER 20, 2025, IN THE DRAPER CITY COUNCIL CHAMBERS

PARTICIPATING:        Andrew Adams, Chair
                      Lisa Fowler, Vice-Chair
                      Commission Member Kendra Shirey
                      Commission Member Mary Squire
                      Alternate Commission Member Christine Green

EXCUSED:              Alternate Commission Member Laura Fidler
                      Commission Member Susan Nixon
                      Commission Member Gary Ogden
                      Alternate Commission Member Shivam Shah
                      Traci Gundersen, City Attorney
                      Spencer DuShane, Assistant City Attorney

STAFF:                Jennifer Jastremsky, Community Development Director
                      Todd Draper, Planning Manager
                      Nick Whitaker, City Planner
                      Paul Geilman, Planning Coordinator
                      Lori Stout, Executive Assistant
                      Brien Maxfield, City Engineer
                      Mike Barker, City Manager
                      Kennady Smith, Administrative Assistant

6:30 PM Business Meeting

Chair Andrew Adams called the meeting to order at 6:32 PM and reported that Item 1C had
been continued to a date uncertain.

1.       Items for Commission Consideration.

         A.    Public Hearing: Elite Esthetics Conditional Use Permit Request.
               (Administrative Action)
               On the request of Dustin Haas Representing Elite Esthetics and Draper Land
               Company No. 2, a Conditional Use Permit to approve the Trade/Vocational School
               Use in the CO2 zone for this location at approximately 66 East Wadsworth Park
               Drive (approximately 3.15 acres), Kkown as Application 2025-0253-USE, Staff
               Contact: Paul Geilman, (801) 576-6551, paul.geilman@draperutah.gov.

Planning Coordinator, Paul Geilman, presented the staff report and displayed the vicinity, aerial,
land use, and zoning maps. The subject property is designated Community and Neighborhood
Commercial and zoned CO2 Professional Office. The adjacent parcel to the south was recently
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
November 20, 2025
Page 2

connected through a cross-access parking easement, which increased the available parking for
the site.

The applicant requested a Conditional Use Permit (“CUP”) to allow the Trade/Vocational School
Use to operate a master esthetics program. Business hours would be Monday through
Saturday, from 8:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. Peak onsite personnel were expected to be 26 individuals,
including students, staff, and clients. Clients would be appointment-based, and class schedules
would be rotated to limit the number of personnel on-site. Including the cross-access
easement, there were 5.44 parking stalls available per 1,000 square feet.

In response to Commissioner Fowler's question about parking, Mr. Geilman reviewed the aerial
map. He indicated that the location of the cross-parking easement was previously owned by
the Utah Department of Transportation ("UDOT"). The owner of the subject property recently
acquired the parcel and recorded the cross-parking easement to ensure adequate parking. Per
Draper City Municipal Code (“DCMC”) §9-25, the required parking for the Trade/Vocational
School is one space per 1.25 students. The space is 5,810 square feet and was allotted
approximately 31 spaces, so adequate parking was available.

Chair Adams invited the applicant Dustin Haas to speak. The Commission did not have any
questions for the applicant.

Chair Adams opened the public hearing. There were no comments. The public hearing was
closed.

Motion: Commissioner Fowler moved to APPROVE the Conditional Use Permit, as requested by
Dustin Haas representing Elite Esthetics, application 2025-0253-USE, based on the following
Findings for Approval and subject to the conditions listed in the Staff Report dated November
6, 2025.

Findings for Approval:

       1.     The proposed use will not be detrimental to the health, safety or general warfare
              of persons residing or working in the vicinity or will be injurious to property or
              improvements in the vicinity.

       2.     The proposed use is necessary or desirable to provide a service or facility which
              will contribute to the general well-being of the neighborhood and the community.

       3.     The proposed use complies with the regulations and conditions specified in
              Section 9-5-080(E) of the Draper City Municipal Code.

Second: Commissioner Shirey seconded the motion.
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
November 20, 2025
Page 3


Vote on Motion: 4-to-0 in favor.

         Commissioner      Yes     No   Abstained     Not Participating    Absent
         Chair Adams                                          X
         Fowler             X
         Squire             X
         Nixon                                                                  X
         Shirey             X
         Ogden                                                                  X
         Fidler,                                                                X
         Alternate
         Shah, Alternate                                                        X
         Green,             X
         Alternate

       B.     Public Hearing: Sunshine Preschool Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit
              Amendment Request.
              (Administrative Item)
              On the request of Jennifer O’Neal, representing Sunshine Preschool, an
              Amendment to a Conditional Use Permit for operation of a Limited Preschool on
              approximately 1.61 acres located at 11501 South 700 West, known as Application
              2025-0239-USE,      Staff  Contact:    Nick   Whittaker,    (801)   576-6522,
              Nick.Whittaker@draperutah.gov.

City Planner Nick Whittaker presented the staff report and displayed the vicinity, aerial, land
use, and zoning maps. The subject property was designated Residential Low-Medium Density
and zoned RA1. A Home Occupation CUP to operate a limited preschool at this location was
approved by the Planning Commission in 2017, and the applicant requested an increase in the
number of students per session to 16 and add one employee.

In September 2025, DCMC § 9-3-040 was amended to increase the maximum number of pre-
elementary students per session from 10 to 16. The new definition was as follows:

       Limited Preschool: A home occupation facility where, as a principal function, educational
       instruction is provided during not more than two (2) sessions per day for up to sixteen
       (16) pre-elementary school aged children age three (3) to six (6) per session during
       customary schooling hours.

Mr. Whittaker reviewed the site plan and photographs. He noted that the home is set back on
the property and is accessed via a circular driveway that allows parents to queue for drop-offs
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
November 20, 2025
Page 4

and pick-ups without stopping on the roadway. Preschool is taught in one room of the home,
with two sessions each day. An employee parking stall was also provided.

Potential impacts included:
   • Additional students are being dropped off and picked up.
   • Employee vehicles, parking, and related traffic.

Proposed mitigation:
   • No more than 16 students per class.
   • All student drop-off and pickup will take place on the property.
   • An off-street parking stall is provided for the additional employee.

In response to a question from Commissioner Fowler, the applicant, Jennifer O’Neal, stated that
classes would be conducted in the walk-in basement, which is accessed through a separate
entrance on the south side of the home. She spoke with all nearby property owners, and all 14
had signed a letter of support for the change. The letter was entered into the record.

Commissioner Fowler asked if the employee was being added due to licensing requirements.
Ms. O’Neal reported that State guidelines regarding student-to-teacher ratios were confusing
as State Code provided both a single required number and tables that vary requirements based
on student age, but the preschool would meet all State requirements.

Chair Adams opened the public hearing.

Lane Hughes reported that he lives directly across the street from the subject property. The
preschool has no negative impact on the neighborhood. Ms. O’Neal’s driveway is very long, and
there has never been an issue with cars stopping on the road. He believes the preschool is an
asset to the community.

There were no further comments. The public hearing was closed.

Motion: Commissioner Squire moved to APPROVE the Amendment to the Home Occupation
Conditional Use Permit, as requested by Jennifer O’Neal representing Sunshine Preschool,
Application 2025-0239-USE, based on the following Findings for Approval and subject to the
conditions listed in the Staff Report dated November 7, 2025.

Finding for Approval:

       1.     The proposal complies with the standards for approval found in DCMC Section 9-
              5-080(E), and potential negative impacts are mitigated through the imposition of
              reasonable conditions.
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
November 20, 2025
Page 5

Second: Commissioner Shirey seconded the motion.

Vote on Motion: 4-to-0 in favor.

         Commissioner      Yes     No   Abstained    Not Participating   Absent
         Chair Adams                                         X
         Fowler             X
         Squire             X
         Nixon                                                                X
         Shirey             X
         Ogden                                                                X
         Fidler,                                                              X
         Alternate
         Shah, Alternate                                                      X
         Green,             X
         Alternate



       C.     Public Hearing: Highpointe Office Building II Site Plan and Deviation Requests.
              (Administrative Item)
              On the request of Riley Young of Mint Architecture, representing Highpointe
              Partners, LLC, Site Plan and Deviation Requests for the construction of a new
              office building on approximately 1.02 acres located at approximately 193 East
              Highland Drive. Known as Applications 2024-0350-SP and 2024-0217-VAR. Staff
              Contact:           Maryann          Pickering,           (801)         576-6391,
              maryann.pickering@draperutah.gov.

The above item was continued to a date uncertain.

       D.     Public Hearing: Bangerter Crossroads Land Use Map and Zoning Map
              Amendment Requests. (Legislative Items)
              On the request of Duaine Rasmussen representing Tom Lloyd and Lloyd's TLC
              Limited, an amendment to the Land Use Map to the Regional Commercial
              Designation and a Zoning Map Amendment to the CR (Regional Commercial)
              Zone for approximately 17.88 acres located at approximately 13782 South 300
              East, known as Applications 2025-0064-MA and 2025-0065-MA, Staff Contact:
              Todd Draper, (801) 576-6335, todd.draper@draperutah.gov.

Planning Manager, Todd Draper, presented the staff report and displayed the vicinity, aerial,
land use, and zoning maps. The subject property was located between Bangerter Highway, 150
East, 300 East, and 13800 South, and was currently vacant. Portions of the property were
designated Residential Medium Density, Residential Low-Medium Density, and Community
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
November 20, 2025
Page 6

Commercial. Current zoning was RA1, Residential Agricultural. The applicant proposed
amending the land use to Regional Commercial and zoning to CR, Regional Commercial. Mr.
Draper noted that the concept site plan included parcels that would be considered in Item 1E.

Characteristics of the Regional Commercial land use designation included a wide range of
regional retail and entertainment uses, master-planned commercial centers, big box centers,
and upscale office buildings in locations with exceptional transportation access to major
highways.

The CR zone is appropriate for areas where a combination of destination-oriented business,
retail, commercial, entertainment, and related uses may be established to serve both residents
and nonresidents of the City. Typical uses include large-scale master-planned commercial
centers with outlying commercial pads, big box stores, and offices. Permitted uses include
banks, bars, convenience stores, gas storage and sales, grooming and veterinary services,
general retail, restaurants, personal care, offices, medical, and hotels. Conditional uses include
higher education facilities, trade or vocational schools, auto and truck equipment storage, car
washes, and limited vehicle repair.

Mr. Draper reported that public comments received in response to the application had been
forwarded to the Planning Commission.

Commissioner Fowler stated that when the Planning Commission last discussed the property,
the developer suggested that a hotel might be constructed on the property. She expressed
concern about allowing multistory buildings so close to residential areas. Community
Development Director Jennifer Jastremsky reported that the maximum building height in the
CR zone is 45 feet or three stories. Residential buildings in the RA1 zone can be a maximum of
35 feet tall. Chair Adams clarified that the Planning Commission was considering land use and
zoning amendments, not approving a site plan. As such, they needed to consider all permitted
uses in the zone to ensure none conflicted with surrounding zoning.

In response to a question raised by Chair Adams, Ms. Jastremsky stated that the last application
for the property was received in 2020. That applicant requested the creation of a Commercial
Special District for primarily office uses.

Commissioner Squire asked if a Development Agreement was anticipated. Mr. Draper reported
that a Development Agreement was not part of the application.

The applicant, Duaine Rasmussen of Castlewood Development and property owner
representative, stated that Tom Lloyd had owned the property for approximately 15 years.
Several proposals were brought forth during that time, including the 2020 proposal referenced
by Chair Adams, which included three- and four-story office buildings. They had since engaged
in conversations with several potential retail tenants, but no leases had been signed. The
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
November 20, 2025
Page 7

rezoning application was submitted because they could not lease the property until it was
properly zoned. They anticipated negotiating and entering into a Development Agreement with
the City. No three-story buildings were planned, and that stipulation could be included in the
agreement.

Mr. Rasmussen indicated that the concept site plan that was included in the meeting packet
was no longer valid. They intended to create a retail district anchored by a major tenant that
would provide jobs and generate considerable property and sales tax revenue. Although he
understood that there had been speculation regarding that anchor tenant, it could not be
announced until a deal was finalized. The anchor tenant would drive the final site plan.

Mr. Rasmussen stated that no major retail tenant would approve the development without
significant modifications to the current traffic conditions. A traffic impact study commissioned
in 2022 and recently updated considered both current conditions and those created by the
site's future development. The improvements identified in the study had been designed and
approved by relevant City and State departments, and Mr. Lloyd had secured $3.45 million to
fund their construction. The improvements would move forward regardless of the outcome of
the rezoning request.

The following improvements were planned:

   •   A third northbound lane will be installed on Bangerter Parkway from 13800 South to 150
       East.
   •   150 East and Bangerter Parkway:
           o Permissive, protected left turn phasing will be added at the northeast and
               southwest approaches.
           o Southeast-bound dual left turn lanes will be constructed with accompanying
               receiving lanes.
           o A northwest-bound right-turn pocket will be added.
   •   13800 South and Bangerter Parkway:
           o Striping will be added for a dual westbound left-turn lane heading south.
           o A dedicated, protected right-turn lane will be added from 13800 South onto
               Bangerter Highway.
   •   A dedicated right-turn lane may be added from 300 East onto 13800 South.

UDOT authorized a new signal on Bangerter Parkway midway between 150 East and 13800
South to allow traffic to turn left into the site as part of an agreement with the land owner when
the Bangerter Highway / I-15 interchange was upgraded years ago. Vehicles could not turn left
out of the site at this signal.
Commissioner Squire stated that the Planning Commission prefers a Development Agreement
for this type of application because, when a property is rezoned, all compliant uses must be
approved without modification. The subject property was in a unique area due to the number
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
November 20, 2025
Page 8

of adjacent housing units, and she did not believe that City Code alone could adequately
mitigate potential impacts on those residents. As a result, she was hesitant to recommend
approval of the rezone without a Development Agreement in place. The proposal would have
a significant impact. She was pleased with the amount of work already completed to mitigate
traffic concerns, but there were other issues that needed to be addressed.

Chair Adams noted that Development Agreements take a lot of time and effort and are typically
very specific. He asked whether the applicant could negotiate with the potential tenant before
rezoning the property. Mr. Rasmussen stated that he believed they were far enough into the
process to complete negotiations before rezoning, if necessary. He suggested that rezoning
could be approved subject to completion of a Development Agreement.

In response to a question raised by Commissioner Fowler, Mr. Draper clarified that the process
typically begins with a Land Use Map Amendment, followed by a Zoning Map Amendment. The
Site Plan and/or Development Agreement is typically approved next. Development Agreements
sometimes accompany Land Use and Zoning Map Amendments, but those agreements are
usually fundamental and require multiple amendments.

Commissioner Squire stated that she believed it was essential to have a Development
Agreement in place for this property first because some adjacent homes have minimum
setbacks and could be negatively impacted by potential uses. In response to a question from
Chair Adams, she agreed that a simultaneous Development Agreement would assuage her
concerns.

In response to a question raised by Chair Adams, Ms. Jastremsky stated that amendments were
more typical when they come in with a rezone than with site plan submission. The Planning
Commission must first review a Development Agreement that amends the City Code before the
City Council considers it.

Commissioner Fowler agreed with Commissioner Squire that a Development Agreement was
necessary. However, she was uncertain if it should be required at this stage. Commissioner
Squire stated that the Commission would be obligated to approve a site plan that complies with
the zone without requiring a Development Agreement.

Commissioner Shirey asked why the developer chose to submit the application at that time
rather than waiting until the Development Agreement had been drafted. Mr. Rasmussen stated
that he believed the Land Use Map Amendment and Zoning Map Amendment were different
issues, and approving the land use change would assure the tenant that their use would be
allowed. He understood the Commission’s concerns and believed a basic Development
Agreement outlining setbacks, height, landscaping, fencing, lighting, etc., could be drafted
quickly. However, his preference was to present the item to the City Council. They were moving
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
November 20, 2025
Page 9

forward with the road improvements to show their commitment to cooperating with the city
and its residents.

Chair Adams stated that the subject property was currently zoned RA1, but he questioned
whether anyone would build homes compliant with that zoning. He believed it was more likely
that any residential development would be on small lots, so the property would need to be
rezoned regardless. He asked if the proposed commercial zoning was best for the area.
Commissioner Shirey stated that the landowner had no interest in residential development on
the property, so it would be some commercial development. She believed the area of concern
was along 300 East, where the property abuts residential areas, not Bangerter Highway.
Channing Hall is on 150 East, and there are crosswalks down the street from the subject
property; she did not believe a grocery store and the associated traffic were appropriate for the
area.

In response to a question from Chair Adams, Mr. Draper restated that the 2020 rezoning
request was for a Commercial Special District.

City Manager Mike Barker reminded the Planning Commission that they could make as many
recommendations as necessary to the City Council, and they had raised valid concerns.
However, the City Council was the final approval authority and would bear the burden of that
decision.

Chair Adams opened the public hearing.

Matt Smith gave his address as 329 East Brown Farm Lane and expressed concern about the
impact of traffic on area neighborhoods. The project would add significant traffic to an already
strained corridor. One study estimated over 10,000 new daily trips funneled through very few
access points, guaranteeing spillover into residential areas. The two traffic studies rated key
intersections as “F”. When intersections fail, drivers find different routes. Residential areas
become bypass routes for shoppers, delivery trucks, and gas-station traffic, and residents face
more noise, speeding, blocked driveways, and reduced safety for children. Queue lengths were
already extreme; up to 700 feet on 300 East and over 1,000 feet on 13800 South. The proposed
improvements were designed to help the store, not the residents, which would put more
pressure on neighborhoods without preventing cut-through traffic or preserving the residential
character. He believed it was about the integrity of Draper’s Master Plan. Changing 17 acres of
RA1 zoning and residential land use designations to Regional Commercial, the City’s most
intense commercial zoning, directly contradicted that promise. RA1 exists to preserve Draper’s
semi-rural character. Families to the north and east live on large lots where children play
outside, and the streets stay quiet at night. Introducing a regional shopping center would
fundamentally change the neighborhoods forever. He supports economic growth, but the
Master Plan did not say growth at any cost or that residential areas should be sacrificed because
a parcel is one of the last available. Draper succeeded because it had respected zoning
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
November 20, 2025
Page 10

transitions and protected established neighborhoods. The Planning Commission was not only
voting on a zoning change but also on whether the Master Plan mattered and whether Draper
would continue to honor its commitments to residents or allow incompatible commercial creep
into established neighborhoods. He urged the Commission to protect the Master Plan and
neighborhoods by denying the request.

Carolyn Phippen gave her address as 363 East Brown Farm Lane. A point made by City Council
members was that the project was about maximizing sales tax revenue, but government was
not created for that purpose. The United States is not an economy but a nation, and Draper is
a community where people purchased properties based on the promise of the Master Plan.
Properties are not purchased with zero encumbrances, and the subject property was purchased
with one-acre residential zoning. That did not mean it could never change, but it did mean that
the community had the right and responsibility to make decisions about how it changes. If
polled, she did not believe Draper residents would list tax revenue as a priority. She thought it
was important to remember what a community is. While a community has the ability and right
through elected officials to make zoning changes, it always comes at a cost. One of the biggest
costs was the traffic issue. Other property owners’ right to utilize their properties efficiently
would be impacted by rezoning the property from one-acre residential to commercial. There
are a lot of brand-new million-dollar homes on small lots on 300 East, and this development
would hurt all residential property owners’ property values.

Rosemary Thomas stated that her family had lived on Brown Farm Lane for 23 years. They had
watched the area grow and understood that change is part of a healthy city, but growth must
be done thoughtfully, especially when new commercial projects are proposed next to long-
established neighborhoods. The proposal did not align with what Councilman Mike Green said
in his most recent Facebook post: “Land should be zoned with a use matching the development
pattern around the existing property.” Her primary concern was the protection of 300 East and
the transition from the new development to an already established neighborhood and brand-
new homes. It was increasingly becoming a busy residential street, and allowing any access
into the proposed development from 300 East would create more traffic problems. Once
commercial or high-density traffic was introduced onto 300 East, it would no longer function as
a neighborhood street. It would become a cut-through from the proposed development,
directly affecting safety, livability, and property values. She urged the Commission to require
no access point onto 300 East at any time. Additionally, if a commercial was approved next to
existing residential areas, the buffer and berm must be meaningful, not symbolic. They needed
a substantial landscape berm and an actual buffer to allow commercial development while
protecting the neighborhood’s quality and integrity. Zoning should reflect the character and
history of the surrounding area, and residential neighborhoods have defined that part of the
city. A zoning change should enhance that fabric, not disrupt it. Compatible land use, adequate
buffering, and protected access are the foundation of responsible planning. She asked the
Commission to prioritize long-term neighborhood stability by requiring no entrance or
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
November 20, 2025
Page 11

connection to 300 East, a substantial berm and buffer to shield existing homes, and zoning that
aligns with the area's established residential character.

Christina Kesler-Day gave her address as 448 East Brown Farm Lane and indicated that she has
owned the property for 22 years. The subject property was purchased with the understanding
that it was zoned residential. Still, the owner had repeatedly brought forward proposals to
change its zoning, which indicated that he bought the property with the understanding that he
would eventually be able to get what he wanted. They had gone to the State Legislature and
UDOT and tried to appease residents by saying they would address the traffic issues, but they
were not listening. It was not just the traffic issues. It was that people live there, there are small
children on the streets, and they did not want significant commercial development in the area
or their property values to decrease because lights are shining into their backyards. Draper
City made Master Plans to address this, and should listen to its citizens who pay property taxes.
They do not want this development, and she hoped the City Council would listen because the
property owner did not care.

Stephanie James stated that her family is new to the neighborhood and lives in Rockwell Square
across the street from the subject property. There are times when cars are at a standstill on
13800 South. Ambulances come down the road at least once each day, and she was concerned
about how the additional traffic would affect their ability to get into the neighborhoods. She
agreed with her neighbors that the property should be residential, not commercial.

Lee Holliday stated that he lives in one of the new homes on Concord Farm Lane. He was not
opposed to the development but agreed that there should be a Development Agreement.
Traffic had an “F” rating, and something needed to be done, but he did not believe residential
zoning worked for the property. Berming or masking could be used to blend the development
into the community, but he lived very close to the property and would likely shop there.

Bob Clark stated that he had lived on 300 East for eight years and previously lived on 500 East.
The subject property was zoned residential, and he purchased his home due to that zoning.
The difference between the last proposal for the property and the current one was that traffic
had gotten worse. Traffic coming out of Draper was a bigger problem, as it backed up past
13800 South during rush hour, and he did not believe rezoning the property to allow
commercial development would help that problem. He thought it should retain residential
zoning because residential developments create less traffic.

Nick Smith stated that he lives on Fort Street. The City would be trusting UDOT to fix the traffic
problems, but they had failed many surrounding communities, and he did not believe they
would solve the issues. A massive development was planned that would bring in a lot of tax
dollars, and he did not think the proposed development was best for the community.
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
November 20, 2025
Page 12

Oliver Herrera stated that he lives near 12300 South. Draper residents face annual increases
in taxes and fees, and many of them wanted to know whether the project would be meaningful
in offsetting those costs. He asked which economic studies, revenue forecasts, or comparative
land-use evaluations were used to determine that a second store would be a good anchor on
the same block as an existing one, and whether the public had access to those studies.

Darci Anderson stated that she lives in a four-story condominium building at 248 East 13800
South that faces the subject property. It is already very challenging to turn left on 13800 South
from the parking lot. The only other way out of the building is to go through the business
parking lot to the west and exit onto Bangerter Parkway. Her parking lot is used as a cut-
through, and she anticipated that the problem would be worse with commercial development.
She asked how people would get to Chick-fil-A and the names of the two additional businesses
in that development. A City Council member posted on Facebook that Smith’s Grocery may
open in the proposed development and would be leaving the location on 12300 South,
regardless, so residents should consider the tax impact if they leave the city. She requested
that the city not allow commercial development on the subject property. She agreed with Chair
Adams that RA1 zoning may not be appropriate, but believed it should remain residential.
People want to live in Draper but cannot find housing.

Larry Dixon agreed with other residents that the property should not be rezoned. He believes
the city needs more housing, not more IKEAs and Walmarts. He did not know whether the City
Planning Department recommended approval. Schools were losing students because they
needed more housing. He did not trust big money and venture capitalists, as they would not
look out for Draper’s best interests. The city had a Master Plan, and he believed it should be
followed. The property had been zoned residential for at least 20 years. It could be rezoned
RA2 or RA3, but adding more IKEAs would cause more traffic issues.

Gus Bernardo gave his address as 13608 South Sher Lane and stated that he moved to Draper
from Farmington four years previously because of Draper’s beautiful parks and trails. His
backyard abuts the property. He asked the Planning Commission to consider residents who
live in the area. Commercial development would bring lights, traffic, and noise, and a grocery
store would have trucks delivering merchandise. It would have a tremendous negative impact
on residents. He has to wait up to 10 minutes to turn north on 300 East in the morning, and
bringing more commercial to the area would devalue his property and decrease the area
residents’ quality of life. A grocery store would have extended business hours and get a lot
more traffic in the area. He requested that the property remain zoned for residential use. He
also did not know how to add a dedicated right-turn lane on 300 East because there is a house
at that corner.

James Cotter stated that he lives near the intersection of 300 East and 13800 South. He had
been angry since he found out about the proposal, as it contradicts the General Plan’s goal of
controlling density near established residential areas. He purchased his home knowing the
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
November 20, 2025
Page 13

zoning. If the rumors were true, it felt like a slap in his face that his master bedroom may have
a view of a loading dock with commercial trucks delivering products all day. He did not believe
that would be a harmonious integration but rather a revolting mismatch. He was concerned
that residents would be taken advantage of and asked for assurance that their quality of life
would be maintained. He did not want lights shining into his living room. If Smith’s were
relocating, it would bring its problems to the area. He was not opposed to growth, but it needed
to be the proper growth in the right places.

Mike Stout stated that he lives near the dog park. His family moved to Draper in 2010. His wife
works at Channing Hall, and his children attended school there. They used to be able to get in
and out without a problem, but now traffic is one of the biggest complaints in the area.
Channing Hall had fewer students than in the past, perhaps in part because of how hard it is to
get in and out of the school. Residents moved in thinking the subject property was zoned
residential, and he thought someone would want to build homes on 0.50-acre lots there. The
City Council treated rezoning as a foregone conclusion, but it was not, and the Planning
Commission’s recommendation meant something. He agreed with Commissioner Squire’s
point that rezoning the property would create a new legal standard and noted that Summit
County requires a Development Agreement prior to rezoning.

Adele Lamb stated that her son lives near the proposed development. She had lived in Draper
for over 30 years and had seen many changes, including those under the Master Plan. She
asked the Planning Commission to remember that Draper consists of more than just the people
who live next to the subject property, and many of them want more commercial amenities and
restaurants in the City. There would be many more steps in the process, so she disagreed that
it was a foregone conclusion and that the city would have no control after the decision. There
would be many opportunities to impact design, traffic, etc. Draper is more than people who
chose to build on roads that had been main arteries since they were paved. She felt bad for
those residents and hoped that appropriate mitigation could be implemented, but she did not
believe that only their happiness should be considered.

Robbie Stagg gave his address as 13598 Sher Lane. His two small children attend Willow Springs
Elementary School. There was no crosswalk at the school, and people sped through the one at
Stokes Avenue without stopping. He was concerned about traffic and how children can safely
cross 300 East. He had spoken with the city about installing a High-Intensity Activated Crosswalk
(“HAWK”) signal, but was told it would be too expensive. Many parents drop their children off
at Channing Hall because they do not trust that their children can safely cross 300 East. It was
not a major thoroughfare until a few years ago.

Steve Bowler gave his address as 941 Tripp Lane and voiced support for the proposed
development. He is a commercial real estate agent who specializes in shopping centers and
was involved with bringing Harmon’s, RC Willey, and Floor and Décor to Draper. He was
sympathetic to the neighbors but believed noise, light, and traffic issues could be mitigated. It
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
November 20, 2025
Page 14

was a prime property for retail development, which would bring tax benefits, services, and jobs
to the City.

Teryl Clark gave her address as 13590 South 300 East and stated that she was also speaking for
her 90-year-old neighbor, who cannot cross the street with her walker. Her neighbors cannot
back out onto 300 East. It was explained to her that “D” and “F” grades are of great concern and
indicate a significant problem. She read from DCMC §9-5-060(E)(2)(e) and stated that the
development would be detrimental to public safety. She has to be very careful when her
grandchildren visit because of the dangers of 300 East. She was also told that a light cannot be
added between 13800 South and Bangerter Parkway because there must be one-half mile
between signals.

McKay Nielsen gave his address as 13796 South Farm Vista Lane at the intersection of 13800
South and 300 East. He has to wear earplugs at night because of the traffic noise, and he did
not believe the proposed solutions would resolve the issue. The applicant discussed adding a
right-turn lane from 300 East onto 13800 South, but there are homes in the path of that lane.
He did not want to be forced to sell his house so the project could move forward. If Smith’s
Grocery opened in the development, large semitrucks turning left onto 300 East would be
problematic. He hoped that the Planning Commission would recommend denial of the
application.

Kristen Thomas stated that she lives on Brown Farm Lane, and commercial traffic is heavier and
more constant than residential traffic. To approve the amendment, the Planning Commission
must find consistency with the General Plan, harmony with surrounding development, no
adverse impacts on neighborhoods, and adequate facilities and services. The evidence in the
Staff Report contradicted those findings. The plan called for residential and office services, and
the neighborhoods around the site were residential. Traffic and adjacency impacts were clear,
and infrastructure concerns remained unresolved. Those were not optional considerations but
legal criteria that must be satisfied. No one present was against business or progress; it was
simply the wrong project in the wrong place. Draper has appropriate commercial nodes, and
this was not one of them. The Planning Commission had every factual and legal justification to
recommend denial, and she respectfully asked that they reject the application. Her children
used to attend Channing Hall, and their crossing guard was hit by a car on 300 East. The traffic
is horrendous there. They frequently have to exit the neighborhood via the rear exit rather
than turning left onto 300 East.

Fernando Luege stated he owns the property at 13720 South 300 East. He suggested that a
significant buffer, such as a green belt or another street, be constructed between the subject
property and the residential area. Even if the property were rezoned to higher-density
residential, he believed a buffer would be beneficial.

There were no further comments. The public hearing was closed.
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
November 20, 2025
Page 15


Mr. Rasmussen understood the citizens’ position, but he believed issues such as buffering could
be addressed through a Development Agreement. He recognized that they did not think it was
an appropriate use of the property, but that it was needed, and that the majority of concerns
could be addressed. The traffic study was accepted as accurate by both the City and State, and
those mitigations would significantly improve conditions.

Chair Adams asked if data was available about potential tax revenue. Mr. Rasmussen stated
that he would provide revenue projections to the staff. If a retailer on 12300 South were to
relocate, he believed another tenant would fill that space and generate additional sales tax
revenue.

Commissioner Squire referred to comments about the traffic study and asked about the
projected grading after improvements are installed and the project is completed. Mr.
Rasmussen stated that the mitigated circumstances would increase the rating for the north
access at 150 East to an “A”, 150 East and Bangerter Parkway to “C”, west access at Bangerter
Parkway to “A”, and 13800 and Bangerter Parkway to “C”. The exit from Rockwell Square onto
13800 South was a problem that the mitigations would not resolve. Still, they would increase
the level of service to “D”. 300 East and 13800 South would increase to “B”, and a traffic signal
was planned for that intersection as a separate project.

In response to a question, Mr. Rasmussen reported that the traffic study was conducted initially
in 2022. City Engineer Brien Maxfield stated that the improvements had been designed based
on the 2022 study, and work would begin soon. The study could not be fine-tuned without
knowing who the anchor tenant will be. Staff were confident that the increased level of service
would make a noticeable difference. However, Draper cannot control interstate backups, and
overflow traffic would remain an issue. Levels of service “E” and “F” indicate failure, and “D” is
an acceptable level for an intersection. Mr. Rasmussen stated that the original study assumed
a large grocery store that generates a large number of trips per day, as well as pass-by trips,
based on existing traffic. He believed the subject property was a good site for retail
development because it is on two major arterial collector routes.

In response to a question raised by Commissioner Fowler, Mr. Maxfield reported that citizens
could make a Government Records Access and Management Act (“GRAMA”) request to obtain
the traffic study.

Commissioner Green stated that there was speculation regarding whether the store would be
Smith’s Grocery, and perhaps a different retailer would be seen in a more favorable light. Mr.
Rasmussen stated that he was not authorized to discuss the names of the major tenants they
were working with.
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
November 20, 2025
Page 16

Commissioner Fowler stated that the Commissioners were not politicians. Their focus is on
planning, and they can only make recommendations to the City Council.

Mr. Barker stated that the traffic studies he had seen were three years old and asked for the
date of the study Mr. Rasmussen was referring to. Mr. Rasmussen clarified that he was referring
to the 2022 study. Updates were in process on behalf of the potential tenants, but had not
been completed.

Chair Adams referred to comments made about property values and taxes. The city needed
more retail, and he did not know where else it could go. Things like property taxes affect
affordability because, if the City is short on revenue, it has to come from either sales taxes or
property taxes. Commissioner Squire noted that the Planning Commission’s role was not to
map out sales tax revenue; it was to plan and to plan smartly.

Commissioner Green reported that she lived in Sandy when the Walmart was built. There was
a citizen campaign against it. However, it was well-planned, no property values were damaged,
and the people behind the campaign now shop there regularly.

Chair Adams stated that Draper Crossing was similar to this property, as it is on a major
roadway and has a residential neighborhood behind it. He lives near 300 East and understands
residents’ concerns. In response to his question about previous proposals, Mr. Maxfield
reported that UDOT committed to mid-block access to the property when Bangerter Highway
was extended, and that access was assumed in the previous application. Some proposals
showed access from 300 East, and some did not. A Site Plan had not been submitted, so he did
not know if that access would be proposed for this development. It was noted that access and
many other aspects of the development could be specified in a Development Agreement.

Chair Adams reminded the public that the item would be heard by the City Council at its
December 2, 2025, meeting, regardless of the Planning Commission’s recommendation.

Motion: Commissioner Squire moved to forward a NEGATIVE recommendation to the City
Council for the Land Use Map Amendment, as requested by Duaine Rasmussen, representing
Tom Lloyd and Lloyd’s TLC Limited, application 2025-0064-MA, based on the following Findings
and Criteria for Denial listed in the Staff Report dated October 28, 2025.

Findings for Denial:

       1.     The proposed map amendment is not harmonious with the overall character of
              existing development in the vicinity of the subject property.

       2.     The proposed map amendment will adversely affect adjacent property.
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
November 20, 2025
Page 17

       3.       There are not adequate facilities and services intended to serve the subject
                property, including, but not limited to, roadways, parks and recreation facilities,
                police and fire protection, schools, stormwater drainage systems, water supplies,
                and wastewater and refuse collection.

Second: Commissioner Shirey seconded the motion.

Vote on Motion: 4-to-0 in favor.

            Commissioner      Yes   No    Abstained     Not Participating    Absent
            Chair Adams                                         X
            Fowler             X
            Squire             X
            Nixon                                                                  X
            Shirey             X
            Ogden                                                                  X
            Fidler,                                                                X
            Alternate
            Shah, Alternate                                                        X
            Green,             X
            Alternate

Motion: Commissioner Squire moved to forward a NEGATIVE recommendation to the City
Council for the Zoning Map Amendment, as requested by Duaine Rasmussen, representing
Tom Lloyd and Lloyd’s TLC Limited, application 20250065-MA, based on the following Findings
and Criteria for Denial listed in the Staff Report dated October 28, 2025.

Findings for Denial:

       1.       The proposed map amendment is not harmonious with the overall character of
                existing development in the vicinity of the subject property.

       2.       The proposed map amendment will adversely affect adjacent property.

       3.       There are not adequate facilities and services intended to serve the subject
                property, including, but not limited to, roadways, parks and recreation facilities,
                police and fire protection, schools, stormwater drainage systems, water supplies,
                and wastewater and refuse collection.

Second: Commissioner Shirey seconded the motion.

Vote on Motion: 4-to-0 in favor.
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
November 20, 2025
Page 18


         Commissioner       Yes    No     Abstained     Not Participating     Absent
         Chair Adams                                            X
         Fowler               X
         Squire               X
         Nixon                                                                     X
         Shirey               X
         Ogden                                                                     X
         Fidler,                                                                   X
         Alternate
         Shah, Alternate                                                           X
         Green,               X
         Alternate



       E.     Public Hearing: Openshaw Draper 138 Land Use Map and Zoning Map
              Amendment Requests.
              (Legislative Items)
              On the request of Charlie Openshaw and Porter Openshaw an Amendment to
              the Land Use Map to the Regional Commercial Designation and a Zoning Map
              Amendment to the CR (Regional Commercial) zone for approximately 1.44 acres
              located at approximately 231 East 13800 South, Kkown as Applications 2025-
              0080-MA and 2025-0074-MA, Staff Contact: Todd Draper, (801) 576-6335,
              todd.draper@draperutah.gov.

Mr. Draper presented the staff report and displayed the vicinity, aerial, land use, and zoning
maps. The subject property at the intersection of Bangerter Highway and 13800 South was
currently undeveloped. The applicant proposed changing the land use designation from
Community Commercial to Regional Commercial and zoning of OR and RA1 to CR. The purpose
of the CR zone is to provide regional-scale retail, entertainment, and related uses.

No public comments had been received, but Mr. Draper indicated that the Planning
Commission may want to consider the comments made with the previous application.
Commissioner Squire noted that the property was included in the conceptual site plan reviewed
with the application earlier. Mr. Barker stated that comments made on the previous application
should not be considered because this was a separate application with separate considerations.

Steve Lovell spoke on behalf of the applicant and thanked Mr. Rasmussen for outlining the
project’s goal of creating a retail center. His client intended to be part of that retail center and
would support a Development Agreement to mitigate concerns raised over that application. In
response to a question from Commissioner Fowler, Mr. Lovell stated that the proposed access
to the subject property would be shared with the prior applicant’s site plan. Still, they preferred
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
November 20, 2025
Page 19

to move forward with the amendment applications. All development on his clients’ property
would be contained within that property.

Chair Adams opened the public hearing.

Ben Jones stated that if the area were rezoned to CR, the surrounding parcels would inevitably
follow because applicants would cite the decision as justification. That is how zone creep
begins; commercial expansion inches deeper into residential corridors year after year. The City
Zoning Map in Exhibit F shows how vulnerable the area would become if this single decision
were made. Planning Commissions do not just look at this project, but at the following five to
10 applications that will be invited. Approving the application would set a precedent that would
undermine neighborhood stability long beyond the applicant’s construction timeline.

Kristen Thomas asked about access to the subject property if it were not developed with the
previous application.

Mike Stout shared Ms. Thomas’ concerns. Mr. Lovell indicated that they expected the other
development to provide access, and as such, he believed it was an incomplete application. The
subject property used to be one of the last places in Draper where herds of deer could live. If
the application were approved, he believed it would give Mr. Rasmussen more power with the
City Council to create a large retail center. He asked the Planning Commission to recommend
denial.

Robbie Stagg agreed with his neighbors that approving the application would help Mr.
Rasmussen’s application be approved. Mr. Lovell did not give a definitive answer when asked
if the applications should be joined, but they were working together to make the properties one
large retail development.

Larry Dixon stated that the project did not seem to be part of the grand plan for how residents
want Draper to grow. They were picking apart what was a good City plan, and it was a slippery
slope to start piecemealing exceptions without a complete study. Months and months were
spent creating the Master Plan, and he believed the city should stick with what it had.

Bob Clark stated that the city always says that its most important asset is its residents. The
Planning Commission was talking about revenue, which he understood, but the residents were
most important. The last time an application was submitted for the subject property, they
wanted to build a car wash, but it was not allowed because there was already a car wash across
the street. Now there was another carwash on the corner. The property had been zoned
residential for years, and he believed that zoning should be retained. Bangerter Highway
should be the cutoff for commercial development, and this property should not be an exception
to the rule.
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
November 20, 2025
Page 20

Lee Holliday stated that the Planning Commission should consider how any future residential
development on this property would be accessed from 13800 South if rezoning was not
approved.

There were no further comments. The public hearing was closed.

Chair Adams noted that the applications involved different property owners with the same goal
and that he believed they would be approved or denied together. Commissioner Squire stated
that the Planning Commission was unanimous in its decision regarding the last application and
asked if the same issues applied to this application.

Mr. Lovell stated that they were working with the other applicant, and shared access would
mitigate some traffic concerns. However, the property was different. It was primarily zoned
OR. They could submit a site plan application for an office building at any time, but they
believed retail was a better fit for the property.

Commissioner Squire asked about access requirements at the intersection. Mr. Maxfield stated
that the Transportation Master Plan considers access management. The busier the street, the
farther apart the accesses must be, and the greater the required distance from intersections.
Frontage improvements for the subject property contemplated shared access onto 13800
South, but access is not officially entitled until a site plan is reviewed and approved.

Commissioner Fowler stated that a prior application for a carwash placed the access at the
eastern edge of the property. Chair Adams added that the access location would be similar if
the property were not developed with the previous application. Mr. Maxfield clarified that
zoning does not determine access points, but the information provided by the applicant
contemplated a shared access at the eastern boundary of the property. Both properties had
an entitled land use, and shared access would be required regardless of the disposition of the
current applications.

Commissioner Shirey stated that the projects were connected, but the subject property was
significantly different and would likely be zoned commercial at some point. Her primary
concern was the impacts and transitions between residential and commercial properties, and
that issue was less prominent with this property. However, based on the facts and their
connection to the other application, she was in favor of a negative recommendation. After
discussion, the Commissioners agreed to consider the applications together.

Motion: Commissioner Shirey moved that the Planning Commission forward a NEGATIVE
recommendation to the City Council for the Land Use Map Amendment, as requested by Charlie
Openshaw and Porter Openshaw, representing CJO Holdings, LLC and P&J Ventures, LLC,
Application 2025-0080-MA, based on the following Findings and criteria for denial listed in the
Staff Report dated October 28, 2025.
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
November 20, 2025
Page 21


Findings for Denial:

       1.       The proposed map amendment is not harmonious with the overall character of
                existing development in the vicinity of the subject property.

       2.       The proposed map amendment will adversely affect adjacent property.

       3.       There are no adequate facilities and services intended to serve the subject
                property, including, but not limited to, roadways, parks and recreation facilities,
                police and fire protection, schools, stormwater drainage systems, water supplies,
                and wastewater and refuse collection.

Second: Commissioner Green seconded the motion.

Vote on Motion: 4-to-0 in favor.

            Commissioner      Yes   No    Abstained     Not Participating    Absent
            Chair Adams                                         X
            Fowler             X
            Squire             X
            Nixon                                                                  X
            Shirey             X
            Ogden                                                                  X
            Fidler,                                                                X
            Alternate
            Shah, Alternate                                                        X
            Green,             X
            Alternate

Motion: Commissioner Shirey moved that the Planning Commission forward a NEGATIVE
recommendation to the City Council for the Zoning Map Amendment, as requested by Charlie
Openshaw and Porter Openshaw, representing CJO Holdings, LLC and P&J Ventures, LLC.,
Application 2025-0074-MA, based on the following Findings and the criteria for denial listed in
the Staff Report dated October 28, 2025.

Findings for Denial:

       1.       The proposed map amendment is not harmonious with the overall character of
                existing development in the vicinity of the subject property.
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
November 20, 2025
Page 22

        2.       The proposed map amendment is not consistent with the standards of any
                 applicable overlay zone.

        3.       The proposed map amendment will adversely affect adjacent property.

Second: Commissioner Fowler seconded the motion.

Vote on Motion: 4-to-0 in favor.

             Commissioner      Yes   No    Abstained    Not Participating   Absent
             Chair Adams                                        X
             Fowler             X
             Squire             X
             Nixon                                                               X
             Shirey             X
             Ogden                                                               X
             Fidler,                                                             X
             Alternate
             Shah, Alternate                                                     X
             Green,             X
             Alternate

        F.        Public Hearing: Pinnacle Towers Conditional Use Permit Amendment Request.
                  (Administrative Action)
                  On the request of Todd Daoust representing Commscapes, Crown Castle
                  International, and Pinnacle Towers, INC, a Conditional Use Permit Amendment
                  for an existing wireless telecommunication facility on approximately 0.90 acres
                  located at approximately 16211 South Minuteman Drive, known as Application
                  2025-0238-USE.      Staff     Contact:  Todd      Draper,    (801)   576-6335,
                  todd.draper@draperutah.gov.

The above item was continued to the December 11, 2025, Planning Commission meeting.

2.      Other Business.

        A.       Coordination between City Staff and Planning Commission (as needed).

None.

3.      Adjournment.

Motion: Commissioner Squire moved to ADJOURN.
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
November 20, 2025
Page 23


The meeting adjourned at 8:58 PM.
