                                   ORDINANCE NO. 1703

        AN ORDINANCE OF DRAPER CITY AMENDING THE TEXT OF TITLE 9 OF THE
        DRAPER CITY MUNICIPAL CODE RELATED TO PUBLIC ACCESS AMENITIES.

      WHEREAS, Utah State law grants to Draper City the authority to regulate uses of
property by enacting land use regulations, among other methods; and

      WHEREAS, it is necessary from time to time to amend certain terms of the Draper City
Municipal Code to comply with statutes enacted by the Utah State Legislature; and

       WHEREAS, the Land Use and Development Code (Title 9) of the Draper City Municipal
Code has been established to provide regulations concerning development activity within
the City Boundaries; and

       WHEREAS, the City Council of Draper City finds good cause to revise the terms and
provisions of the Land Use and Development Code in response to changes in Utah Code; and

       WHEREAS, notice has been issued according to the requirements of the Utah Code
and Draper City Municipal Code for public hearings before the Planning Commission and City
Council to receive public input regarding the revision of the revision of portions of the Draper
City Municipal Code; and

       WHEREAS, the Planning Commission and City Council have each held a public hearing
to receive public input regarding the revision of portions of the Draper City Municipal Code.

      NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF DRAPER CITY, STATE
OF UTAH, AS FOLLOWS:

       Section 1.     Findings. The City Council of Draper City has made the following
findings that the proposed text amendments to Title 9 of the Draper City Municipal Code: 1.
The proposed amendment is consistent with goals, objectives and policies of the City's
General Plan; 2. The proposed amendment is appropriate given the context of the request
and there is sufficient justification for a modification to the development codes; 3. The
proposed amendment will not create a conflict with any other section or part of the
development codes or the General Plan; 4. The potential effects of the proposed amendment
have been evaluated and are determined not to be detrimental to public health, safety, or
welfare and represents an overall community benefit; 5. The proposed text amendment
implements best current, professional practices of urban planning, design, and engineering
practices; and 6. The proposed text amendment brings the text of the DCMC into compliance
with State Code.




Ordinance No. 1703                             1                     City Initiated Public Access Amenity
                                                                                 Zoning Text Amendment
       Section 2.    Amendment. Sections 9-10-080, 9-14-010, 9-14-020, 9-14-040, 9-14-
060, 9-14-080, 9-14-090, and 9-14-100 of the Land Use and Development Code of the Draper
City Municipal Code are hereby revised to read as set forth in Exhibit A.

      Section 3.    Correction of Editing Errors. The city attorney is authorized to correct
any punctuation, spelling, formatting, clerical, or de minimis errors in Exhibit A prior to
submitting the ordinance for publishing.

        Section 4.   Severability. If any section, part or provision of this Ordinance is held
invalid or unenforceable, such invalidity or unenforceability shall not affect any other portion
of this Ordinance, and all sections, parts and provisions of this Ordinance shall be severable.

        Section 5.   Effective Date. This Ordinance shall become effective immediately
upon publication or posting, or 30 days after final passage, whichever is closer to the date of
final passage.

PASSED AND ADOPTED BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF DRAPER CITY, STATE OF UTAH, ON THE
17th DAY OF FEBRUARY, 2026.

                                                   DRAPER CITY



                                                   _____________________________
                                                   Mayor Troy K. Walker

ATTEST:



_________________________________
Nicole Smedley, City Recorder




 VOTE TAKEN:                                           YES      NO          ABSENT
 Councilmember Green                                   ____     ____        ____
 Councilmember Johnson                                 ____     ____        ____
 Councilmember T. Lowery                               ____     ____        ____
 Councilmember F. Lowry                                ____     ____        ____
 Councilmember Dahlin                                  ____     ____        ____
 Mayor Walker                                          ____     ____        ____




Ordinance No. 1703                             2                       City Initiated Public Access Amenity
                                                                                   Zoning Text Amendment
                                        EXHIBIT A


9-10-080: PLANNED RESIDENTIAL DEVELOPMENT OVERLAY ZONE:

…

I. Requirements Ffor All PRDs:

…

      2. Required Components Ffor All PRDs:

             a. Provision Oof Public Open Space: This shall mean the provision of
             common open space which is distinguishable by its quantity or quality and
             which is readily accessible to the residents of the development and the
             public. Opportunities to connect to adjacent open space or park areas are
             preferred methods to achieve this requirement as encouraged as per the
             Draper City open space conservation plan and the Draper City parks, trails,
             and recreation plan. Examples of such areas are the Jordan River Parkway,
             Willow Creek, and Corner Creek, but may include other locally important
             spaces, trails, and parks. The minimum overall open space to qualify for this
             factor is twenty five percent (25%) of the entire project area within the
             project area (road rights of way, park strips, private trails, and private yards
             cannot be utilized in calculating this percentage). One-half (1/2) of the overall
             provided open space shall be considered "developable land", as defined
             within this chapter (minimum 20 percent of overall project acreage). Public
             trails which conform to the locations shown on the Draper City master parks
             and trails plan, and related public spur trails, can be counted for this
             requirement. Small gathering places are also encouraged to be utilized and
             integrated throughout the project and shall be open to the public whether
             maintained privately or publicly. All public open space that meets this
             requirement does not necessarily constitute acceptance of the open space
             for perpetual maintenance by Draper City.

             No more than twenty five percent (25%) of the required overall PRD open
             space shall be in the form of linear parks or trails.

             …

L. Findings Required: Before approval or modified approval of an application for a
proposed PRD overlay zone, the planning commission and city council must find:

…

      5. That all required elements of providing public open space, preserving natural
      features, and providing interior amenities and an innovative site plan, have been
       met, in accordance with this chapter.

       …

9-14-010: PURPOSE AND OBJECTIVES OF THE TSD ZONE:

…

B. Objectives: The TSD is intended to promote and provide incentives to create a
clustered, high density residential mixed use and pedestrian friendly development with an
effort to provide ready accessibility to freeway service as well as a unique public transit
service environment. This type of development is generally referred to as TOD, or transit
oriented development, and by focusing development in proximity to transit stations, transit
oriented development can create interesting and successful urban centers, diminish urban
sprawl, and play a major role in realizing regional development strategies. The objectives of
the TSD are to:

…

       10. Integrate public use open spaces, plazas, courtyards and pocket parks and
       encourage, where reasonably possible, the connection of these areas to other uses
       in the TSD and existing public use open space and recreational system in the
       community of Draper City;

       …

       15. Pursuant to the authority of Utah Code Annotated section 10-9a-102(2)
       Subsection 10-20-101(2), as amended, specifically authorize the execution of one or
       more project specific development agreements and other ancillary agreements in
       connection with TSD developments, which development and ancillary agreements
       may, among other things, specify the obligations of the respective parties with
       respect to the installation of required infrastructure improvements, reimbursement
       for system improvements and oversizing, alternative approval and regulatory
       methods for specific projects or such other matters as the City and the applicable
       project applicant may agree; and

       …

9-14-020: DEFINITIONS:

As used in this chapter:

…

PUBLIC USE SPACE: An area of land set aside, dedicated, designated or reserved for public
or private use for recreational or amenity activities, including, but not limited to, parks,
plazas and patios.
…

9-14-040: INTENSITY AREAS AND STATION HUB:

A. Intensity Areas: The TSD is composed of three (3) specific intensity areas: TSD-1; TSD-2;
and TSD-3. Density is expected to be highest in the TSD-1 and TSD-2 intensity areas, which
shall be pedestrian oriented and well connected to public use open spaces, parks, plazas
and social gathering areas. Similar connectivity and pedestrian orientation is encouraged
for the TSD-3 intensity area, but application of the foregoing requirements may not be as
strictly applied given the orientation, grade, or other site specific constraints affecting the
development of a particular parcel within the TSD-3 intensity area. Multiple uses consisting
primarily of multi-family, commercial, retail, office, and a mix of the foregoing and other
uses are particularly encouraged in the TSD-1 and TSD-2 intensity areas. The boundaries of
the TSD-1, TSD-2, and TSD-3 intensity areas shall be as shown in section 9-14-110, exhibit 9-
14-1 of this chapter, and may be adjusted from time to time as a text amendment to this
chapter, pursuant to section 9-5-060 of this title. The official copies of all approved MAPs
and intensity area boundaries shall be maintained in and by the Draper City Community
Development Department.

       …

9-14-060: MASTER AREA PLAN:

A. Intent: The intent of the master area plan (MAP) and the process for submitting and
obtaining approval of such MAP is to provide an applicant of large or phased projects (MAP
area) with a mechanism to obtain the City's approval of a conceptual framework for such
projects within the TSD. Public use Open spaces, proposed land uses, and specific design
and development standards within the MAP area shall be identified and a conceptual plan
describing those elements of the MAP area shall be part of the MAP. An approved MAP
constitutes approval of a master plan that will guide future development within the MAP
area.

…

C. MAP Requirements:

       1. Narrative: Each MAP shall include a narrative providing the following:

       …

              c. A general description of proposed land uses, parking plan and public use
              open space elements to be included in the MAP area;

              d. A general description of the transportation systems within the MAP area,
              whether existing or proposed, including collector and arterial streets, public
              trails and trailheads, public transit, and a general description of the proposed
              plan for accommodating auto, bicycle and pedestrian circulation and
              connectivity, and parking, along with the utilization and accommodation of
              any existing or proposed public transit connections within the MAP area or
              located on to adjoining properties;

              …

              g. A general description of the estimated sequence and timing of
              development of the MAP area, including the proposed phasing of public use
              open space and any major on site or off site infrastructure improvements or
              facilities required or anticipated to be required in connection with the
              development of the MAP area;

              …

       2. Graphics: Each MAP shall include the following graphic submittals:

       …

              b. A conceptual drawing identifying the general location of any arterial and
              collector roadways, bicycle networks, and central or loop trail systems and
              trailheads planned for the MAP area, including connections to existing or
              planned trails;

              c. A conceptual drawing identifying the general location of any open space,
              neighborhood parks, plazas, or other major public use space social gathering
              areas proposed for the MAP area; and

              …

D. Review Process: Submittals for MAP approval shall follow the following process:

…

       2. City Council Review: After receiving the recommendation from the planning
       commission with respect to a MAP, the city council shall hold a public hearing within
       thirty (30) days of receipt of the recommendation. The city council shall approve,
       approve with conditions or deny the MAP within twenty one (21) days of the public
       hearing. The decision of the city council to approve or deny a MAP shall be deemed
       a final decision entitling the applicant to appeal the decision to a district court as set
       forth in Utah Code Annotated section 10-9a-801 Section 10-20-1109, as amended, or
       its successor section.

       …

G. Major And Minor Amendments: Provided the written review of the ACC has been
previously obtained and submitted to the city, including ACC review of a site plan or site
plan amendment, an approved MAP may be amended at any time and such amendment
may occur simultaneously with the processing of a site plan application or a site plan
amendment. The Zoning Administrator shall decide whether a proposed amendment is a
"major" or "minor" amendment. A major amendment shall be reviewed and approved or
denied using the process established for the initial MAP approval. A minor amendment
shall be reviewed and approved or denied by the Zoning Administrator. In order to initiate
an amendment, the applicant shall submit to the Zoning Administrator those MAP
submission items that would change if the proposed amendment were approved. Appeal
of the Zoning Administrator's decision regarding a MAP amendment shall be to the City
Council.

       1. Major Amendments: Changes of the following types shall define an amendment
       as major:

       …

               b. Those which materially alter the location or amount of land dedicated
               allocated to parks, trails, public use open space, natural areas or public
               facilities; or

               …

9-14-080: DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS AND URBAN DESIGN REGULATIONS:

…

B. Required Buffer: An average two hundred foot (200') wide, with a minimum one
hundred foot (100') wide, recreational or public use open space buffer is required
immediately south of and adjacent to the existing Galena Hills Subdivision. There shall be
no buffer required east of the west right-of-way boundary of Galena Park Boulevard, as
shown in section 9-14-110, exhibit 9-14-1 of this chapter. This buffer shall be extensively
landscaped and extend the length of the existing single-family residential development,
and is meant to assist in transitioning from the smaller scale of the existing residential
development to the taller, denser development of the TSD. Public infrastructure, including
roadways and related improvements may be located within the required buffer area only
for the purpose of providing connectivity to existing or proposed street rights-of-way. The
provision of this connectivity may be for permanent or temporary connections to the
existing or realigned Galena Hills Boulevard right-of-way and shall be provided in a manner
that the street connection within the buffer area is minimized to the greatest extent
possible for the most reasonable alignment. With the exception of the connection to the
existing or realigned Galena Hills Boulevard, there shall be no streets or roadways allowed
within the buffer area. Those portions of residential or commercial buildings that are
located within the area that is within fifty feet (50') of the required buffer shall be limited to
a maximum of thirty six feet (36') in height.

…
J. Public Use Open Space Requirements:

       1. The TSD shall include at least fifteen percent (15%) of the total development area
       for public use open space purposes, calculated on a per acre basis. For purposes of
       this requirement, public use open space shall include parks, trails, plazas,
       courtyards, or other outdoor amenities and public spaces, including hard surfaced
       areas conducive to enjoyment of the outdoors in an urban setting. Street pavement,
       curb and gutter, park strip, and standard sidewalk, i.e., five feet (5') or less in width,
       shall not be considered public use open space. For purposes of the determining
       public use open spaces, sidewalks or walkways of at least ten feet (10') in width
       which are designed and constructed as a part of the city's a trail system may be
       counted and included as public use open space.

       2. Provided the mechanism for allocating or distributing the public use open space
       is set forth in an approved MAP, the fifteen percent (15%) public use open space
       may be calculated on an aggregated basis across multiple phases and/or across
       multiple parcels within the TSD. In such circumstances, individual site plans or
       project specific MAPs may be approved without including on site public use open
       space, pursuant to an approved MAP public use open space strategy.

       3. Applicants of individual sites or phases may choose to make a onetime cash in
       lieu payment to the master developer to be used for the creation of public use open
       space within the TSD.

       4. Except as may be otherwise specified in an approved MAP, for large and phased
       developments, fifty percent (50%) of the required public use open space area shall
       be complete when fifty percent (50%) of the total MAP land area has been
       developed. One hundred percent (100%) of public use open space shall be complete
       when one hundred percent (100%) of the total MAP land area has been developed.
       These public use open space completion requirements may be waived by the city
       depending on the distribution and location of individual components within the
       overall public use open space system, as detailed in an approved MAP.

       …

9-14-090: SITE PLAN REVIEW:

D. ACC Review Criteria: The ACC review shall address the following criteria:

…

       2. Site Design:

       …

              g. Creation of outdoor public common spaces and contribution to the
              overall TSD public use open space strategy;
              …

9-14-100: PROJECT SPECIFIC DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENTS:

A. Project Specific Development Agreements Permitted: Pursuant to the authority of Utah
Code Annotated section 10-9a-102(2) Subsection 10-20-101(2), as amended, projects within
the TSD may be developed pursuant to a project specific development agreement (PSDA)
generally executed in connection with the completion of a MAP. Additional terms and
conditions not addressed in the MAP may be agreed to by the parties to a PSDA. The
provisions of an approved PSDA shall govern over any conflicting provisions of this Code,
except when such provisions compromise the health, safety and welfare of individuals.

…

C. City Council Review: The City Council shall hold a public hearing within forty five (45)
days of receipt of the PSDA application, unless additional time is requested by the
applicant. The City Council shall approve or deny the PSDA within twenty one (21) days of
the public hearing. The decision of the City Council to approve or deny a PSDA shall be
deemed a final decision entitling the applicant to appeal the decision to a District Court as
set forth in Utah Code Annotated section 10-9a-801 Section 10-20-1109, as amended, or its
successor section.

…
