Exhibit A


3-5-070: DRAPER CITY SPECIAL EVENT ARENA COMMITTEE:

A. Creation: There is hereby created a Draper City Special Event Arena Committee to
advise the city regarding projects, programs, activities and administration of the Draper
City arena.

B. Duties: It shall be the duty of the committee to act in an advisory and voluntary capacity
to the city regarding programs, activities, and administration of the Draper City arena
including but not limited to the following:

1. Propose and recommend policies, standards and rules pertinent to the arena
programs;

2. Assist the city in creating and implementing activities and programs for the arena
consistent with the needs of the business operators and residents of Draper;

3. Seek and solicit resources for supporting the needs of the arena; and

4. Keep the general public informed of the activities and concerns of the arena. (Ord.
1493, 6-15-2021)

3-5-120: DRAPER CITY COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT AND EVENTS COMMITTEE:

A. Creation: There is hereby created the Draper City Community Engagement and
Events Committee to act as a welcoming voluntary and advisory committee focused
on creating opportunities for a unified community connection, engagement, and
participation within the through cCity-supported events and programs.

B. Duties: It shall be the duty of the committee to act in a voluntary and advisory
capacity to the city regarding community engagement and events activities that
foster unity and belonging within the city, including, but not limited to:

1. Act Serve as a liaison to inform the cCity to build community, identify the needs
of residents, and provide feedback related to community engagement and events.
of issues faced by our varied communities and groups.

2. Advocate and voice support for initiatives that cultivate and foster unity while
stimulating socioeconomic equality for the greater community. Assist the City in
planning, promoting, and implementing community events, programs, and
activities.

3. Host events for the greater community to celebrate and inform the public about
various cultures and traditions. Support efforts to bring residents together and
create meaningful opportunities for connection throughout the community.
Exhibit A


4. Host community events focusing on neighbors getting to know each other and
creating a supportive and welcoming community. Seek and encourage resources,
partnerships, and support for community events and engagement initiatives, as
appropriate.

5. Attend ribbon cuttings for new businesses in the community and help new
business owners and new residents to Draper feel invited and welcomed. (Ord.
1493, 6-15-2021; amd. Ord. 1620, 9-3-2024) Help keep the public informed,
engaged, and connected regarding community events, programs, and
opportunities.
