MEMO
To: City Council
From: Todd Taylor
Date: 2026-06-09
Re: Public Hearing: Ordinances #1719 and #1720


Comments:

This application is a request for approval of a Master Area Plan (MAP) Amendment and a
Zoning Text Amendment for approximately 31.27 acres located on the north side of
Bangerter Highway, at approximately 13708 South 600 West. The applicant is requesting
the MAP and Zoning Text Amendments to remove the office use and add an outdoor
recreational surf facility (surf park) use to the MAP.

The Planning Commission reviewed this item at their May 14, 2026 meeting and
forwarded a positive recommendation with a vote of 4-1.

Master Area Plan Amendment

Findings for approval:
  1. The proposal complies with all of the required elements under DCMC Section 9-14-
     060.
  2. The master circulation plan adequately serves the MAP area and areas surrounding
     the project.
  3. The proposal provides for a community character substantially consistent with the
     purposes of the TSD, including the provision for at least twenty-five percent (25%)
     commercial, retail, or office uses.
  4. The proposed development standards and design guidelines are high quality transit
     oriented design standards, including the use of high quality building materials.

Findings for denial:
  1. The proposal does not comply with all of the required elements under DCMC
     Section 9-14-060.
  2. The master circulation plan is not adequate to serve the MAP area and areas
     surrounding the project.
  3. The proposal does not provide for a community character substantially consistent
     with the purposes of the TSD, including the provision for at least twenty five percent
     (25%) commercial, retail, or office uses.
  4. The proposed development standards and design guidelines are not high quality
     transit oriented design standards, including the use of high quality building
     materials.

Zoning Text Amendment

Findings for approval:
  1. The proposed amendment is consistent with goals, objectives and policies of the
     city's general plan.
  2. The proposed amendment furthers the specific purpose statements of the zoning
     ordinance.
  3. The proposed amendment is appropriate given the context of the request and there
     is sufficient justification for a modification to the zoning ordinance.
  4. The proposed amendment will not create a conflict with any other section or part of
     this title or the general plan.
  5. The potential effects of the proposed amendment have been evaluated and
     determined not to be detrimental to public health, safety, or welfare and represents
     an overall community benefit.
  6. The proposed text amendment implements best current, professional practices of
     urban planning, design, and engineering practices.

Findings for denial:
  1. The proposed amendment is not consistent with goals, objectives and policies of
     the city's general plan.
  2. The proposed amendment does not further the specific purpose statements of the
     zoning ordinance.
  3. The proposed amendment is not appropriate given the context of the request and
     there is not sufficient justification for a modification to the zoning ordinance.
  4. The proposed amendment will create a conflict with another section or part of this
     title or the general plan.
  5. The potential effects of the proposed amendment have been evaluated and
     determined to be detrimental to public health, safety, or welfare and does not
     represent an overall community benefit.
  6. The proposed text amendment does not implement best current, professional
     practices of urban planning, design, and engineering practices.


ATTACHMENTS:

Ordinance No. 1719 - MAP.pdf
ATTACHMENTS:

Ordinance No. 1720 - TA.pdf
ATTACHMENTS:
Veranda West TA MAP CUP Staff Report_Finalized.pdf
ATTACHMENTS:

6b - Applicant Presentation.pdf
