MEMO
To: Planning Commission
From: Nick Whittaker, MCMP
Date: 2026-02-12
Re: Public Hearing: Velocity Corner Sales Site Plan Request (Administrative Item)


Comments:


This application is a request for approval of a Site Plan for approximately 1.28 acres
located on the west side of Galena Park Blvd, at approximately 12276 S. Galena Park Blvd.
The property is currently zoned CC. The applicant is requesting that a Site Plan be
approved to allow for the expansion of an auto sales business.



Findings for approval:

  1. The site plan reflects the full development of the property.
  2. The site plan conforms to applicable standards set forth in ordinance, including but
     not limited to, building heights, setbacks, access points, parking, landscaping, and
     building materials.
  3. The proposed development plans meet the intent, goals, and objectives of the
     general plan and the purpose of the CC zoning district in which the site is located.
  4. The public facilities and services in the area are adequate to support the subject
     development, as required by engineering standards and specifications.
  5. The proposed development plans will comply with the engineering standards found
     in Titles 7, 8, 11, 12, 16, and 18 of the DCMC, including traffic, storm water drainage,
     and utilities concerns.


Findings for denial:

  1. The site plan does not reflect the full development of the property.
  2. The site plan does not conform to applicable standards set forth in ordinance,
     including but not limited to, building heights, setbacks, access points, parking,
     landscaping, and building materials.
  3. The proposed development plans do not meet the intent, goals, and objectives of
     the general plan and the purpose of the CC zoning district in which the site is
     located.
  4. The public facilities and services in the area are not adequate to support the subject
     development, as required by engineering standards and specifications.
  5. The proposed development plans will not comply with the engineering standards
     found in Titles 7, 8, 11, 12, 16, and 18 of the DCMC, including traffic, storm water
     drainage, and utilities concerns.




ATTACHMENTS:

Velocity corner sales site plan report.pdf
