MEMO
To: Planning Commission
From: Nick Whittaker, MCMP
Date: 2026-03-12
Re: Public Hearing: Fratto Farms Development Agreement, Zoning Map Amendment and
Land Use Map Amendment Requests (Legislative Items)


Comments:

These applications are requests for approval of a Development Agreement, a Land Use
Map Amendment and a Zoning Map Amendment. The purpose of the Development
agreement is to allow the applicant to develop 15 lots for detached single-family dwelling-
units. The purpose of the Land Use Map Amendment is to change the current land use
designation from Residential Medium Density to Residential High Density. The purpose of
the Zoning Map Amendment is to change the current zoning designation from RA2 to
RM2. The subject property is approximately 2.03 acres and located on the north side of
12200 S. at approximately 791 E. 12200 S.




Land Use Map Amendment



Findings for Approval:

  1. The proposed land use map amendment is consistent with goals, objectives, and
     policies of the city's general plan.
  2. The proposed land use map amendment is harmonious with the overall character
     of existing development in the vicinity of the subject property.
  3. The proposed land use map amendment will not adversely affect adjacent property.
  4. There are adequate facilities and services intended to serve the subject property,
     including, but not limited to, roadways, parks and recreation facilities, police and fire
     protection, schools, stormwater drainage systems, water supplies, and wastewater
     and refuse collection.
  5. The proposed land use map amendment complies with DCMC Section 9-2-020(F).
  6. The legislative body may adopt any amendment to the general plan land use map
     that the legislative body considers appropriate.


Findings for Denial:
  1. The proposed land use map amendment is not consistent with goals, objectives,
     and policies of the city's general plan.
  2. The proposed land use map amendment is not harmonious with the overall
     character of existing development in the vicinity of the subject property.
  3. The proposed land use map amendment will adversely affect adjacent property.
  4. There are not adequate facilities and services intended to serve the subject
     property, including, but not limited to, roadways, parks and recreation facilities,
     police and fire protection, schools, stormwater drainage systems, water supplies,
     and wastewater and refuse collection.
  5. The proposed land use map amendment does not comply with DCMC Section 9-2-
     020(F).
  6. The legislative body may reject any amendment to the general plan land use map
     that the legislative body considers appropriate.



Zoning Map Amendment


Findings for Approval:

  1. The proposed zoning map amendment is consistent with goals, objectives, and
     policies of the city's general plan.
  2. The proposed zoning map amendment is compatible with the subject properties
     existing Land Use Designation and harmonious with the overall character of existing
     development in the vicinity of the subject property.
  3. The proposed zoning map amendment will not adversely affect adjacent property.
  4. There are adequate facilities and services intended to serve the subject property,
     including, but not limited to, roadways, parks and recreation facilities, police and fire
     protection, schools, stormwater drainage systems, water supplies, and wastewater
     and refuse collection.

Findings for Denial:
  1. The proposed zoning map amendment is not consistent with goals, objectives, and
     policies of the city's general plan.
  2. The proposed zoning map amendment is not compatible with the subject properties
     existing Land Use Designation and is not harmonious with the overall character of
     existing development in the vicinity of the subject property.
  3. The proposed zoning map amendment will adversely affect adjacent property.
  4. There are not adequate facilities and services intended to serve the subject
     property, including, but not limited to, roadways, parks and recreation facilities,
     police and fire protection, schools, stormwater drainage systems, water supplies,
     and wastewater and refuse collection.
Development Agreement


Findings for Approval:

  1. The development agreement complies with DCMC Section 9-5-200(C) and (D) and
     provides for a lower density range on the property that best meets the interests of
     the community and applicant.


Findings for Denial:

  1. The development agreement does not provide for a density range on the property
     that best meets the interests of the community and applicant.


ATTACHMENTS:

Fratto farms DA zma Luma report.pdf
