                                 Development Review Committee
                                     1020 East Pioneer Road
                                       Draper, UT 84020
                                       December 23, 2025

To:               Draper City Planning Commission
                  Business Date: January 8, 2026

From:             Development Review Committee

Prepared By: Nick Whittaker, MCMP, Planner II
             Planning Division
             Community Development Department
             801-576-6522, nick.whittaker@draperutah.gov

Re:      Western States Flooring– Conditional Use Permit Request
         Application No.: 2025-0184-USE
         Applicant:        Marshall Peterson, representing Western States Flooring
         Project Location: 12453 S. 265 W. Suite A
         Current Zoning: CBP (Business/Manufacturing Park) Zone
         Acreage:          6.80 Acres (Approximately 296,208 ft2)
         Request:          Request for approval of a Conditional Use Permit in the CBP zone
                           to operate a a business that provides limited wholesale and
                           warehousing.



BACKGROUND AND SUMMARY

This application is a request for approval of a Conditional Use Permit for approximately
6.80 acres located on the east side of 265 W. at approximately 12453 S. 265 W. Suite A
(Exhibits B & C). The property is currently zoned CBP. The applicant is requesting that a
Conditional Use Permit be approved to allow for limited wholesale and warehousing of
carpet.

The property was developed with two primary buildings in 1997 and is part of a platted
development known as the Draper Industrial Park. The buildings are divided into multiple
business suites and Western States Flooring is located in the southern building on the site
in suite A.




Western States Flooring                                            App. # 2025-0184-USE
Conditional Use Permit Request                 1
ANALYSIS

General Plan and Zoning.

 Table 1                    General Plan and Zoning Designations                       Exhibit
 Existing Land Use          Industrial and Manufacturing                               Exhibit D
 Current Zoning             CBP                                                        Exhibit E
 Proposed Use               Limited wholesale and warehousing
 Adjacent Zoning
    East                    CR (Regional Commercial), CI (Interchange
                            Commercial)
     West                   CBP, M1 (Light Manufacturing)
     North                  CBP
     South                  CBP

The Industrial and Manufacturing land use designation is characterized as follows:




According to Draper City Municipal Code (DCMC) Section 9-8-020 the purpose of the CBP
zone is to “provide aesthetically attractive planned developments having a mix of office,
research and development, light manufacturing, and limited retail uses. Typical uses in this
zone include offices, clean indoor manufacturing facilities, service retail, restaurants,
athletic clubs, personal service shops, medical offices, office/warehouse buildings, and
research facilities.”

Site Plan Layout. The property is developed with two large commercial buildings (Exhibits F



Western States Flooring                                                 App. # 2025-0184-USE
Conditional Use Permit Request                    2
& G). The north building is approximately 54,359 ft2 and the south building is approximately
54,131 ft2. Each Building has multiple units which are leased out to tenants. Western States
Flooring is located in Unit A of the south building which is approximately 8,224 ft2. Parking
is located between and behind the two buildings and an additional parking lot is located at
the south east corner of the property. Parking is shared by all tenants from both buildings.
Each unit located in the south building has one (1) shipping and receiving dock bay located
at the south side of the unit. Each dock bay is partially recessed into the south side of the
building at an angle and each stall in front of each dock measures approximately forty (40)
feet in depth and thirteen (13) feet in width and is designed to allow a delivery truck to back
up against the loading bay door. The drive isle between the loading bay stalls and the
adjacent parking stalls to the south is approximately twenty-four (24) feet in width. Delivery
truck access to and from the dock bays follows counter-clockwise around the building.

 Table 2                  Site Plan Design Requirements
 Standard                 DCMC            Proposal        Notes
                          Requirements
 Setbacks-                                                All measurements are
                                                          approximate

     Front                No             40 feet
                          requirement
     Rear                 No             26 feet
                          Requirement

     Side                 No             66 feet
                          Requirement

     Side                 No             74 feet
                          Requirement


Parking. There are adequate parking stalls to meet the parking requirement for the use.
Parking is located between and behind both buildings on the property and an additional
parking lot is located at the south east corner of the property (Exhibit G). Parking is shared
by all tenants in the commercial development. Per DCMC 9-25-100 between 205-249
parking stalls are required based on the known existing uses for the property. The property
has approximately 280 off street parking stalls. The property has some areas striped with
parking stalls that do not comply with minimum ordinance requirements, these stalls are
not included in this approximate total. The proposed limited wholesale and warehousing
use requires 4 to 5 stalls based upon the gross square footage of the suite of
approximately 8,224 ft2. As the site is existing, a deviation regarding the surplus on-site
parking is not required.




Western States Flooring                                             App. # 2025-0184-USE
Conditional Use Permit Request                     3
 Table 3                     Parking Lot Design Requirements
 Standard                    DCMC             Proposal            Notes
                             Requirements
 Parking Required            Between 205 – 280 parking            Existing Site (Total)
 (Min/Max)                   249 parking      stalls
                             stalls           (Approximate)
 Warehousing                 0.5 space per    4 to 5 stalls for   Proposed project plus other
                                     2
                             1,000 ft gross   the proposed        existing tenants
                             floor area       Conditional
                                              Use. 35+ overall
                             28-35 parking
                             stalls
 Limited                     1 space per      32+                 Other existing tenants
                                     2
 Manufacturing               1,000 ft gross
                             floor area

                             27 to 32
                             parking stalls
 Instruction,                5 spaces per      48+                Other existing tenants
 General                     1,000 ft2 gross
                             floor area

                             40 to 48
                             parking stalls
 Retail                      2.5 spaces per    26+                Other existing tenants
                             1,000 ft2 gross
                             floor area

                             22 to 26
                             parking stalls
 General Office              4 spaces per      46+                Other existing tenants
                             1,000 ft2 gross
                             floor area

                             38 to 46
                             parking stalls
 Medical Service             3 spaces per      31+                Other existing tenants
                             1,000 ft2 gross
                             floor area

                             25 to 31
                             parking stalls
 Indoor Recreation           3 spaces per      31+                Other existing tenants



Western States Flooring                                                   App. # 2025-0184-USE
Conditional Use Permit Request                       4
                             1,000 ft2 gross
                             floor area

                             25 to 31
                             parking stalls

Criteria for Approval. The criteria for review and potential approval of a conditional use
permit request is found in Section 9-5-080(E) of the DCMC. This section depicts the
standard of review for such requests as:

         E. Approval Standards: The standards of this subsection shall apply to the issuance
             of a conditional use permit:
          1. A conditional use permit may be issued for a use to be located within a zone
             where the particular conditional use is allowed by the use regulations of the
             zone.
          2. Reasonable conditions may be imposed as necessary to substantially mitigate
             reasonably anticipated detrimental effects of the proposed use. These
             conditions may include conditions concerning use, construction, character,
             location, landscaping, screening, parking, hours of operation, and other matters
             relating to the purposes and objectives of this section. Such conditions shall be
             expressly set forth in the motion authorizing the conditional use permit.
          3. If the reasonably anticipated detrimental effects of a proposed conditional use
             cannot be substantially mitigated by the imposition of reasonable conditions to
             achieve compliance with applicable standards, the conditional use may be
             denied.
          4. The following factors shall be reviewed and considered in determining whether a
             conditional use permit application should be approved, approved with
             conditions, or denied because reasonable conditions cannot be imposed to
             achieve compliance with applicable standards:
               a. The harmony and compliance of the proposed use with the objectives and
                  requirements of the city's general plan and this title;
               b. The suitability of the specific property for the proposed use;
               c. Whether the proposed use or facility may be injurious to potential or existing
                  development in the vicinity;
               d. The economic impact of the proposed facility or use on the surrounding
                  area;
               e. The aesthetic impact of the proposed facility or use on the surrounding area;
               f. The safeguards proposed or provided to ensure adequate utilities,
                  transportation access, drainage, parking, loading space, lighting, screening,
                  landscaping, open space, fire protection, and pedestrian and vehicular
                  circulation;




Western States Flooring                                              App. # 2025-0184-USE
Conditional Use Permit Request                  5
              g. The safeguards provided or proposed to prevent noxious or offensive
                 emissions such as noise, glare, dust, pollutants and odor from the proposed
                 facility or use; and
              h. The impact of the proposed facility or use on the health, safety, and welfare
                 of the city, the area, and persons owning or leasing property in the area.
          5. The planning commission may request additional information as may be
             reasonably needed to determine whether the requirements of this subsection E
             can be met.

Per DCMC 9-3-040, Limited wholesale and warehousing is defined as:

         An establishment that is engaged in the small-scale storage and sale of goods to
         other businesses for resale, excluding self-storage warehouses, major distribution
         centers, motor freight terminals, moving and storage firms and similar high volume,
         high turnover facilities. No outside storage is permitted.

The applicant’s submitted description of business operations can be found in Exhibit H
attached to this report. The applicant’s primary business focus is the warehousing and
distribution of carpet rolls and carpet padding products and they do not have any onsite
manufacturing, sales, or showrooms. There will be office space for administrative staff.
Every day approximately 5 to 8 Carpet installers typically arrive between 7 a.m. and 8:30
a.m. to load their trucks with carpet to install at offsite locations. Installers load the carpet
at the loading bay located on the south side of the building. Carpet rolls are delivered to
the warehouse two to three times per week. These deliveries also occur at the loading bay.
The applicant has made the following assertions regarding compliance with the standards
of Section 9-5-080(E) of the DCMC (Exhibit H):

    •    That the applicant’s location is situated in a zone, which allows for light
         manufacturing, office, and warehouse.

    •    That the proposed use will not create noise, traffic, odor, or hazards to the
         surrounding area

    •    That the proposed use will not create detrimental impacts to the surrounding area.

    •    That they (the applicant) are willing to meet any reasonable conditions proposed by
         the city to mitigate any potential impacts

Staff has reviewed the applicant’s submitted statements and documentation and generally
concurs that the proposed operations comply with the criteria found in Section 9-5-080(E)
of the DCMC.

Staff believes that the most likely potential negative impacts of a limited wholesale and



Western States Flooring                                                App. # 2025-0184-USE
Conditional Use Permit Request                   6
warehousing use at the subject property would be the potential for noise, vibration, or
odor being discernable outside of the building and the impacts that shipping and delivery
operations could pose to neighboring tenants. There are no known noise, vibration, or
odor impacts from the proposed use that have been discernable outside of the building. In
addition, the building is designed to accommodate installers picking up carpet daily and
carpet deliveries made by large trucks as it includes a dedicated loading bay for the trucks
and existing protocols to route trucks to their proper bay which helps mitigate potential
traffic impacts created by carpet installers loading supplies and delivery trucks dropping
them off.

Staff has included recommended conditions of approval within the staff recommendations
section of this report, including conditions that can be imposed to address potential
impacts that might be created by shipping and receiving operations.



REVIEWS

Planning Division Review. The Draper City Planning Division has completed their review of
the Conditional Use Permit submission. Comments from this division, if any, can be found
in Exhibit A.

Engineering and Public Works Divisions Review. The Draper City Engineering and Public
Works Divisions have completed their reviews of the Conditional Use Permit submission.
Comments from these divisions, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Building Division Review. The Draper City Building Division has completed their review of
the Conditional Use Permit submission. Comments from this division, if any, can be found
in Exhibit A.

Fire Division Review. The Draper City Fire Marshal has completed his review of the
Conditional Use Permit submission. Comments from this division, if any, can be found in
Exhibit A.

Noticing. Notice has been properly issued in the manner outlined in the City and State
Codes.



STAFF RECOMMENDATION

Staff recommends that the Planning Commission review the request based on the findings
listed below and the criteria for approval, or denial, as listed within the staff report. The
Planning Commission should also hear from the applicant and receive public comment
prior to making a decision.



Western States Flooring                                            App. # 2025-0184-USE
Conditional Use Permit Request                7
If the Planning Commission decides to approve the request, staff recommends they include
the following conditions of approval:

         1.       That all requirements of the Draper City Engineering, Public Works, Building,
                  Planning, and Fire Divisions are satisfied throughout the development of the
                  site and the construction of all buildings on the site, including permitting.
         2.       That a Draper City business license shall be obtained prior to operating and
                  shall be maintained by the business owner for as long as the business
                  remains in operation.
         3.       That no manufacturing shall take place at the property.
         4.       That shipping and receiving shall only be conducted at Unit A’s designated
                  shipping bay.
         5.       That loading and unloading of deliveries and other use of the shipping and
                  receiving dock bay may not block, interfere with, or otherwise prohibit access
                  to vehicular parking stalls, drive aisles, or the dock bays of other businesses
                  on the property.
         6.       That all storage related to the wholesale and warehousing business
                  operation be located inside the subject suite.
         7.       No additional storage shall be permitted outside of the building or elsewhere
                  on the subject property, including but not limited to shipping containers,
                  trucks, or trailers parked on the property for longer than 12 hours.



MODEL MOTIONS AND FINDINGS

Sample Motion for Approval – I move that we approve the Conditional Use Permit, as
requested by Marshall Peterson, representing Western States Flooring 2025-0184-USE,
based on the following findings for approval and subject to the conditions listed in the Staff
Report dated December 23, 2025.

Findings for approval:

    1. The proposal complies with the standards for approval found in DCMC Section 9-5-
       080(E) and potential negative impacts are mitigated through the imposition of
       reasonable conditions.

I move that we approve the Conditional Use Permit, as requested by Marshall Peterson,
representing Western States Flooring 2025-0184-USE, based on the findings for approval
and subject to the conditions listed in the Staff Report dated December 23, 2025 and as
modified by the following additional findings or conditions:

    1. (List any additional findings…)



Western States Flooring                                               App. # 2025-0184-USE
Conditional Use Permit Request                   8
    2. (List any additional or modified conditions…)

Sample Motion for Denial – I move that we deny the Conditional Use Permit, as requested
by Marshall Peterson, representing Western States Flooring 2025-0184-USE, based on the
following findings and the criteria for denial as listed in the Staff Report dated December
23, 2025.

Findings for denial:

    1. The proposal does not comply with all standards for approval found in DCMC
       Section 9-5-080(E) and potential negative impacts are not able to be sufficiently
       mitigated through the imposition of reasonable conditions.




Western States Flooring                                            App. # 2025-0184-USE
Conditional Use Permit Request                9
                  DEVELOPMENT REVIEW COMMITTEE ACKNOWLEDGEMENT


We, the undersigned, as duly appointed members of the Draper City Development Review
Committee, do acknowledge that the application which provides the subject for this staff
report has been reviewed by the Committee and has been found to be appropriate for
review by the Draper City Planning Commission and/or City Council.

                                                                          Di9llaI|'Slgna<3e)’''’odd Draper
                                                                          ON:C>US,
                                                                                 Mper^drapervtax
                                                                          O>0rsp«r C'ly Community
                                                       Todd Draper OsvelopCMni Depanmenl,
                                                                          OD-Pi.vinlng and Zoning,
                                                                          CN-Todd Draper
                                                                          Date: 2025.49.91-10         070C


Draper City Public Works Department             Draper City Planning Division
                              /
                          V




vDraper/City-'Fire Department
                      /
                                                Draper City Legal Counsel
          /       /

              /




Draper City Building Division
                                      EXHIBIT A
                                 DEPARTMENT REVIEWS

REVIEWS ARE NOT MEANT TO BE AN ALL INCLUSIVE LIST OF POSSIBLE COMMENTS OR
CONDITIONS.



Planning Division Review.
       1.     No additional comments.



Engineering and Public Works Divisions Review.

       1.     Requested CUP does not impact public streets, traffic, or utilities based on
              location beyond normal and expected uses.

Building Division Review.

       1.     No additional comments.

Fire Division Review.

       1.     No additional comments.
  EXHIBIT B
VICINITY MAP
 EXHIBIT C
AERIAL MAP
  EXHIBIT D
LAND USE MAP
 EXHIBIT E
ZONING MAP
EXHIBIT F
SITE PLAN
   Project name: South Valley Warehouse — Nutrastrips
   Applicant: Lionheart Enterprises, LLC, a Utah limited liability company
   Site Address: 12411 South 265 West, Suite C
                  Draper, Utah 84020




                  2
                                                                             Vacant Lot
                  6
                  5                                                                       N
                                                  ~335 ft.
                  W
                  e
                  s
                  t




Western States Flooring
12453 South 265 West, Suite A
Draper, Utah 84020
 EXHIBIT G
FLOOR PLAN
                                                         Floor Plan
                                                             &
                                                          Racking
                                                           Layout

          cubicles


          racking



                                  Racking to support carpet rolls
                                  (3) 4 ft deep x 10 ft wide

                                  (3) 4 ft deep x 12 ft wide


Racking to support carpet rolls
(7) 4 ft deep x 12 ft wide




                                  Racking to support carpet rolls
                                  (1) 5 ft deep x 12 ft wide
    createdby:
  5794W.4600
   shopdrawings

                So.
  Hooper, UT 84315
  Office: 801.985.0410




                                                                                           REVISION   DESCRIPTION   DATE
                         BEESLEY | ORMAND PROPERTY MANAGEMENT
                               12375 SOUT 265 WEST STREET
                                   DRAPER, UTAH 84020            14553 S 790 West Unit B
FP-1




                                                                   Bluffdale, UT 84065
                           BUILDING A & BUILDING B FLOOR PLANS       801-662-0909
      EXHIBIT H
APPLICANT STATEMENTS
Planning – V1 Planning review:                                                                  12/16/25



Our building is not open to the public, there is no retail space. We are in the end suite of the building.

We occupy no more than 3-4 parking spaces in the main parking lot for employees. Most of our
employees leave the office at approx. 9:00 am and we have only one employee onsite the rest of the day.

We house carpet and pad and operate installation services for those materials.

We have 5-8 installers pick up materials every morning between 7:00 – 8:30am. They drive pickup trucks
with small trailers no more than 12 feet long. They pull onto the property from 265 West and follow the
signs for “truck traffic”. They pull up to the back of the building and are loaded with a roll of carpet and
pad. Each installer is there for approx. 10 minutes in the morning.

Carpet delivery trucks come to our facility 2-3 times per week and turn off of 265 West into the back of
the property and follow the signs for “truck traffic.” They pull up at the back of the building and back into
the un-loading dock. These trucks could be box trucks, or could be semi trucks, it varies. While the
trucks are unloaded they are not obstructing other trucks coming through the back of the property. They
are completely out of the way. It takes approx. 20-40 minutes to unload the truck. All delivery trucks for
other business in the complex follow this same process.

We have 2 forklifts in the warehouse. Only one is used daily, the other is a backup. They are both smaller
forklifts with a 4000 lb capacity rating and run on propane. We do NOT store propane tanks on the
property.
Statement of Compliance with Standards

Date: 10/21/25

To: Draper City Zoning Administrator / Planning Department

Re: Statement of Compliance with Standards — Western States Flooring Inc, 12453 S 265
W Unit A, Draper, Utah 84020

I, the undersigned, am the owner/authorized agent of Western States Flooring Inc located
at 12453 S 265 W Draper Utah 84020. Our business operates as a carpet installation
contractor. We store carpet rolls and carpet padding at this facility for use in off-site
installation projects. There is no on-site retail sales to the public, no carpet manufacturing
or cutting operations producing significant dust or emissions, and no storage or use of
hazardous materials.

This statement is provided to demonstrate how the proposed/ongoing use meets the
approval standards of Draper City Municipal Code §9-5-080(E). Specifically:

   •   The proposed use is permitted within the zone as a warehousing/storage and
       contractor office/support use and is consistent with the objectives of the City’s
       land-use regulations.

   •   The use will not create unreasonable detrimental effects (noise, traffic, odor, or
       hazardous risk) to adjacent properties; anticipated traffic is limited to contractor
       vehicles and occasional delivery trucks.

   •   Reasonable conditions (if any) proposed by staff can be met to mitigate potential
       impacts (for example, designated loading areas, trash control, and normal business
       hours).

I certify that the information contained herein is true and accurate to the best of my
knowledge.

Signed:   Jamie Kempton
Name: Jamie Kempton
Title: Chief Operating Officer
Business: Western States Flooring Inc
Phone/email: 602-859-6724 jamie@westernstatesflooring.com
Statement of Variance Applicability

Date: 10/21/25

To: Draper City Zoning Administrator / Planning Department

Re: Statement of Variance Applicability — Western States Flooring Inc., 12453 S 265 W Unit
A, Draper, Utah 8402

Western States Flooring Inc. hereby states that no variance is required for the
current/proposed use at the above-referenced property. The business activity is limited to
storage of carpet and carpet padding and associated contractor office operations, which
conform to the applicable zoning and development standards for the property.

If the city determines that specific features of the property or proposed operations require
a variance, we will submit a formal variance application that addresses the particular
provision(s) of the code from which relief is being sought and demonstrates the standards
for granting a variance as required by Draper City Municipal Code §9-5-110. American Legal
Publishing

Signed: Jamie Kempton
Name: Jamie Kempton
Title: Chief Operating Officer
Business: Western States Flooring Inc.
Phone/email: 602-859-6724 jamie@westernstatesflooring.com
