MEMO
To: City Council
From: Jennifer Jastremsky, AICP
Date: 2026-03-24
Re: Public Hearing: Ordinance #1708


Comments:

This application is a request of Mike Winters, representing Edge Homes, for approval of a
Development Agreement Amendment for approximately 21 acres located on the south side of
Kimballs Ln, at approximately 632 E Kimballs Ln. The property is currently zoned RM2. The
applicant is requesting the City review and adopt design standards and a concept site plan for the
property.




The City Council approved a Development Agreement, Zoning Map Amendment, and Land Use Map
Amendment on June 17, 2025 for five of the six properties. These applications allow for the
property to be built with multi-family residential at a density of 25-27 dwelling units per acre. The
Development Agreement also called for 30 work force housing units to be built on the property and
that the applicant would work with the City on a concept plan to bring back in an amendment. On
October 21, 2025 the City Council approved a Zoning Map Amendment and Land Use Map
Amendment to the property located at 625 E 11900 S to the RM2 zone and Residential High-Density
land use designation. The current application will formally add the property into the boundaries of
the Development Agreement.




The City Council approved the Kimballs Station Area Plan on September 2, 2025. This master plan
looks at overall development within a ½ mile radius of the Kimballs Lane TRAX Station. The plan
called for multi-family housing on the subject property. The recommendations for the Kimballs
Lane Station have been included as Exhibit H of the Planning Commission Staff report.



The Planning Commission reviewed this item at their March 12, 2026 meeting and forwarded a
positive recommendation with a 5-0 vote. The recommendation included the provision that the
Council consider adding the below items to the agreement.

  1. Add clarifying language in the body of the Development Agreement document that the canal
     trail will be installed and dedicated to the City.
  2. Include the recommended changes from the staff in the agreement document.
        a. That right-of-way dedication is required for all public streets and shall comply with the
           city standard street sections, except for the modifications to the sidewalk/parkstrip
           configuration on Kimballs Ln as outlined in the Development Agreement Amendment.
        b. The public improvements are required on all public street frontages, including street
            widening to the current city standard street width, curb, gutter, park strip, and sidewalk,
            with the exception of the sidewalk/parkstrip configuration on Kimballs Ln as outlined in
            the Development Agreement Amendment.
        c. That at the west end of 11900 South where the public street ends, the north half of a
            public cul-de-sac that meets the city standard of 100-foot diameter right-of-way, be
            constructed and dedicated to the city.

The applicant has submitted draft language to address item 1 of the Planning Commission
recommendation. Their proposal is to amend section 3.2.2 of the Development Agreement
Amendment to the following:
      Amenities and Open Space Plan. The amenities and open space areas of the Project shall
      comply with the amenities and open space plan attached hereto as Exhibit E, including,
      without limitation, the construction and dedication to the City of a public trail along the
      westerly bank of the East Jordan Canal.

As for item 2 of the Planning Commission recommendation, the applicant has stated they are fine
with the inclusion of items 2a and 2b as is. Item 2c is currently being discussed with staff. A
potential solution and recommended language will be provided at the Council meeting.

The agreement included in the attached Ordinance 1708 is the version that was reviewed by the
Planning Commission. Staff will have an updated draft available for the meeting that includes the
Planning Commission recommendation once a solution and recommended language for item 2c is
determined.


Findings for Approval:




  1. The Development Agreement Amendment complies with DCMC Section 9-5-200(C) and (D).
  2. The Development Agreement Amendment substantially complies with the intent of the
      Kimballs Lane Station Area Plan.


Findings for Denial:




  1. The Development Agreement Amendment does not substantially comply with the intent of
      the Kimballs Lane Station Area Plan.
ATTACHMENTS:

Ordinance 1708.pdf
ATTACHMENTS:

Kimballs Junction DA Amend PC Staff Report -3-12-26 Combined.pdf
ATTACHMENTS:

5b- Kimballs Junction DA Amend CC PPT.pdf
