MEMO
To: City Council
From: Todd Draper, AICP
Date: 2026-07-07
Re: Public Hearing: Ordinance #1727


Comments:

This application is a request by Ellen and Bob Rohr for approval of a Text Amendment to
Chapter 9-31 of the Draper City Municipal Code (DCMC) pertaining to Accessory Dwelling
Units. The applicant is requesting a Text Amendment be approved to allow for existing
detached accessory structures to be converted into Detached Accessory Dwelling Units
(D-ADU’s). The proposed changes would be applicable citywide.

The Planning Commission at their meeting on June 11, 2026 forwarded a positive
recommendation to the City Council regarding the proposed Text Amendment on a
unanimous 5-0 vote.



Findings for Approval:
  1. The proposed amendment is consistent with goals, objectives and policies of the
     City's General Plan;
  2. The proposed amendment is appropriate given the context of the request and there
     is sufficient justification for a modification to the development codes;
  3. The proposed amendment will not create a conflict with any other section or part of
     the development codes or the General Plan;
  4. The potential effects of the proposed amendment have been evaluated and are
     determined not to be detrimental to public health, safety, or welfare and represents
     an overall community benefit; and
  5. The proposed text amendment implements best current, professional practices of
     urban planning, design, and engineering practices.
  6. The proposed text amendment brings the text of the DCMC into compliance with
     State Code.

Findings for Denial:
  1. The proposed amendment is not consistent with goals, objectives and policies of
     the City's General Plan;
  2. The proposed amendment is not appropriate given the context of the request and
     there is not sufficient justification for a modification to the development codes;
  3. The proposed amendment could create a conflict with another section or part of the
     development codes or the General Plan;
  4. The potential effects of the proposed amendment have been determined to be
     detrimental to public health, safety, or welfare or do not represent an overall
     community benefit; and
  5. The proposed text amendment is not consistent with best current, professional
     practices of urban planning, design, and engineering practices.




ATTACHMENTS:

Ordinance #1727.pdf
ATTACHMENTS:

Rohr ADU Text Amendment Staff Report -Final.pdf
