MEMO
To: Planning Commission
From: Maryann D. Pickering, AICP
Date: 2026-04-23
Re: Public Hearing: Jenson Farms Phase 4 Preliminary Subdivision Plat and Park Strip
Deviation Requests (Administrative Items)


Comments:


This application is a request for approval of a Preliminary Subdivision Plat and Park Strip
Deviation for approximately 11.74 acres located west of 700 West near the intersection of
Rolling Hills Way and Junegrass Drive at approximately 11867 S. 700 West. The 700 West
address is a holdover from the original property. The property is currently zoned R4. The
applicant is requesting that the application be approved for the purpose of developing a
28-lot single family subdivision and a deviation to reduce the park strip width in two cul-
de-sac areas that abut a city park.



The original Jenson Farms subdivision Rezoning application and Development Agreement
were approved by the City Council in October 2017. The Agreement outlined a process for
dedication of land to the city for a new park, road stubbing and street connections to the
planned subdivision to the north and a chart showing the minimum number of different
sized lots required in the subdivision. The preliminary plat approved in 2017 had six
phases with a total of 85 lots. After the approval of the preliminary plat, Phases 4 and 5
(for a total of 28 lots) was sold to the Canyons School District for a potential school site.
The school district has since sold the property to Ivory Homes who intends to develop the
last 28 lots of the subdivision.



There was no modification of the lot development standards in the original approved
Development Agreement. The proposed preliminary plat follows the original intent and
lots sizes of the original Phases 4 and 5.


Park Strip Deviation:
Finding for approval:
  1. The modification of the park strip is adequate and appropriate based on the
     proposed design.
Finding for denial:
  1. The modification of the park strip is not adequate and not appropriate based on the
     proposed design.

Preliminary Subdivision Plat:
Findings for approval:
  1. The proposed subdivision plat complies with DCMC Section 17-3-040(A).
  2. The proposed subdivision plat complies with the standards and criteria found in
     Draper City Municipal Code, including, but not limited to, the subdivision ordinance,
     the land use ordinance, general plan, master street plan, and City standard
     specifications and design criteria.

Findings for denial:
  1. The proposed subdivision plat does not comply with DCMC Section 17-3-040(A).
  2. The proposed subdivision plat does not comply with the standards and criteria
     found in Draper City Municipal Code, including, but not limited to, the subdivision
     ordinance, the land use ordinance, general plan, master street plan, and City
     standard specifications and design criteria.




ATTACHMENTS:

04-23-2026 PC Report (Jenson Farms Ph 4).pdf
