MEMO
To: City Council
From: Paul Geilman
Date: 2026-06-09
Re: Public Hearing: Ordinance #1718


Comments:

This application is a request for approval of a Zoning Map Amendment for approximately
0.33 acres located on the west side of 300 E, at approximately 12738 S. 300 E. The
property is currently zoned RA1 (Residential Agricultural, 40,000 sq. ft. min lot size). The
applicant is requesting that the application be approved so the property is compliant with
the existing Land Use Master Plan. Planning Commission forwarded a unanimous
positive recommendation to the City Council on May 14, 2026.

Findings for Approval:
  1. The proposed zoning map amendment is consistent with goals, objectives, and
     policies of the city's general plan.
  2. The proposed zoning map amendment is harmonious with the overall character of
     existing development in the vicinity of the subject property. The proposed zoning
     map amendment is consistent with the standards of any applicable overlay zone.
  3. The proposed zoning map amendment will not adversely affect adjacent property.
  4. There are adequate facilities and services intended to serve the subject property,
     including, but not limited to, roadways, parks and recreation facilities, police and fire
     protection, schools, stormwater drainage systems, water supplies, and wastewater
     and refuse collection.

Findings for Denial:
  1. The proposed zoning map amendment is not consistent with goals, objectives, and
     policies of the city's general plan.
  2. The proposed zoning map amendment is not harmonious with the overall character
     of existing development in the vicinity of the subject property.
  3. The proposed zoning map amendment will adversely affect adjacent property.
  4. There are not adequate facilities and services intended to serve the subject
     property, including, but not limited to, roadways, parks and recreation facilities,
     police and fire protection, schools, stormwater drainage systems, water supplies,
     and wastewater and refuse collection.


ATTACHMENTS:
Ordinance #1718.pdf
ATTACHMENTS:

Nielsen ZMA Staff Report -finalized.pdf
