MEMO
To: City Council
From: Paul Geilman
Date: 2026-01-20
Re: Action Item: Ordinance #1697


Comments:

This application is a request for approval of a Zoning Map Amendment for approximately
1.04 acres located on the west side of 300 E, at approximately 283 E Tanager Ln. The
property is currently zoned RA1 (Residential Agricultural, 40,000 sq. ft. min lot size). The
applicant is requesting that the application be approved to allow for the property to be
subdivided.

Planning Commission forwarded a unanimous positive recommendation to the City
Council on December 11, 2025.

On January 6, 2026 the City Council continued a decision on this item to the January 20,
2026 meeting in order to allow for additional analysis and information from planning staff
regarding the potential for creating lots in compliance with City Code, specifically
regarding access to Tanager Lane.

Planning staff has analyzed the property as requested, and has determined that there are
multiple potential configurations where up to 3 lots could be able to be created in
compliance with ordinance if the zone change were to be approved, each with sufficient
square footage and access to Tanager Lane, including some where the existing home
would be able to remain. The southern property line is wide enough to allow for 3
driveways for 3 separate lots to come directly off of Tanager Lane. If the zone change is
approved the applicant will then work with an engineer and surveyor to develop the
specific lot configuration they wish to pursue and submit a subdivision application to the
city for review to ensure that and subdivision meets all code standards, including access.

Findings for Approval:
  1. The proposed zoning map amendment is consistent with goals, objectives, and
     policies of the city's general plan.
  2. The proposed zoning map amendment is harmonious with the overall character of
     existing development in the vicinity of the subject property.
  3. The proposed zoning map amendment is consistent with the standards of any
     applicable overlay zone.
  4. The proposed zoning map amendment will not adversely affect adjacent property.
  5. There are adequate facilities and services intended to serve the subject property,
     including, but not limited to, roadways, parks and recreation facilities, police and fire
     protection, schools, stormwater drainage systems, water supplies, and wastewater
     and refuse collection.

Findings for Denial:
  1. The proposed zoning map amendment is not consistent with goals, objectives, and
     policies of the city's general plan.
  2. The proposed zoning map amendment is not harmonious with the overall character
     of existing development in the vicinity of the subject property.
  3. The proposed zoning map amendment will adversely affect adjacent property.
  4. There are not adequate facilities and services intended to serve the subject
     property, including, but not limited to, roadways, parks and recreation facilities,
     police and fire protection, schools, stormwater drainage systems, water supplies,
     and wastewater and refuse collection.




ATTACHMENTS:

Butler_ZMA_Staff_Report_Final.pdf
ATTACHMENTS:

Ordinance #1697 Butler ZMA.pdf
