                                   ORDINANCE NO. 1702

        AN ORDINANCE OF DRAPER CITY AMENDING THE TEXT OF TITLES 2, 3, 6, 8,
        9, AND 17 OF THE DRAPER CITY MUNICIPAL CODE RELATED TO VARIANCES
        AND LAND USE APPEALS.

      WHEREAS, Utah State law grants to Draper City the authority to regulate uses of
property by enacting land use regulations, among other methods; and

      WHEREAS, it is necessary from time to time to amend certain terms of the Draper City
Municipal Code to comply with statutes enacted by the Utah State Legislature; and

       WHEREAS, the City Council of Draper City finds good cause to revise the terms and
provisions of the Draper City Municipal Code in response to changes in Utah Code; and

       WHEREAS, notice has been issued according to the requirements of the Utah Code
and Draper City Municipal Code for public hearings before the Planning Commission and City
Council to receive public input regarding the revision of the revision of portions of the Draper
City Municipal Code; and

       WHEREAS, the Planning Commission and City Council have each held a public hearing
to receive public input regarding the revision of portions of the Draper City Municipal Code.

      NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF DRAPER CITY, STATE
OF UTAH, AS FOLLOWS:

       Section 1.     Findings. The City Council of Draper City has made the following
findings that the proposed text amendments to Titles 2, 3, 6, 8, 9, and 17of the Draper City
Municipal Code: 1. The proposed amendment is consistent with goals, objectives and policies
of the City's General Plan; 2. The proposed amendment is appropriate given the context of
the request and there is sufficient justification for a modification to the development codes;
3. The proposed amendment will not create a conflict with any other section or part of the
development codes or the General Plan; 4. The potential effects of the proposed amendment
have been evaluated and are determined not to be detrimental to public health, safety, or
welfare and represents an overall community benefit; 5. The proposed text amendment
implements best current, professional practices of urban planning, design, and engineering
practices; and 6. The proposed text amendment brings the text of the DCMC into compliance
with State Code.

       Section 2.    Amendment. Section 2-4-060 of the Government Organization Code,
Section 3-5-030 of the Administrative Code, Sections 6-3-010 and 6-3-020 of the Business
Regulations Code, Section 8-5-140 of the Telecommunications Code, Sections 9-3-040, 9-4-
030, 9-4-050, 9-5-045, 9-5-110, 9-5-180, 9-6-050, 9-6-140, 9-7-050, 9-7-060, 9-7-100, 9-26-050,

Ordinance No. 1702                             1        City Initiated Variance and Land Use Appeal Update
                                                                                          Text Amendment
and 9-27-140 of the Land Use and Development Code, and Sections 17-1-120 and 17-8-050
of the Land Development Code of the Draper City Municipal Code are hereby revised to read
as set forth in Exhibit A.

      Section 3.    Correction of Editing Errors. The city attorney is authorized to correct
any punctuation, spelling, formatting, clerical, or de minimis errors in Exhibit A prior to
submitting the ordinance for publishing.

        Section 4.   Severability. If any section, part or provision of this Ordinance is held
invalid or unenforceable, such invalidity or unenforceability shall not affect any other portion
of this Ordinance, and all sections, parts and provisions of this Ordinance shall be severable.

        Section 5.   Effective Date. This Ordinance shall become effective immediately
upon publication or posting, or 30 days after final passage, whichever is closer to the date of
final passage.

PASSED AND ADOPTED BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF DRAPER CITY, STATE OF UTAH, ON THE
17th DAY OF FEBRUARY, 2026.

                                                   DRAPER CITY



                                                   _____________________________
                                                   Mayor Troy K. Walker

ATTEST:



_________________________________
Nicole Smedley, City Recorder




 VOTE TAKEN:                                           YES       NO         ABSENT
 Councilmember Green                                   ____      ____       ____
 Councilmember Johnson                                 ____      ____       ____
 Councilmember T. Lowery                               ____      ____       ____
 Councilmember F. Lowry                                ____      ____       ____
 Councilmember Dahlin                                  ____      ____       ____
 Mayor Walker                                          ____      ____       ____




Ordinance No. 1702                             2        City Initiated Variance and Land Use Appeal Update
                                                                                          Text Amendment
                                          EXHIBIT A

2-4-060: CONSTITUTIONAL TAKING ISSUES:

…

E. Appeals:

…

       3. Appeal Procedure and Timing. The Appeals and Variance Hearing Officer shall
       hear review all evidence regarding the appeal and render a decision and findings in
       writing within fourteen (14) days from the date the appeal was filed. If the Appeals
       and Variance Hearing Officer fails to hear review and decide the appeal within
       fourteen (14) days, the City’s decision or action is presumed to be approved.

       4. Standard of Review. The Appeals and Variance Hearing Officer shall review the
       facts and information presented by the applicant and the City to determine by a
       preponderance of the evidence whether or not the action by the City constitutes a
       constitutional taking. In doing so, he or she shall consider the criteria for an exaction
       under the Utah Code § 10-9a-508 Section 10-20-911, as amended, as well as
       applicable state and federal statutory and common law.

       …

3-5-030: PLANNING COMMISSION:

There is hereby created and established a Planning Commission of Draper City to
recommend and monitor the planning and development of the city.

J. Appeals:

…

       2. Any affected person may appeal a planning commission decision by filing a
       written appeal to the appeals and variance hearing officer stating the grounds for
       appeal within fourteen (14) days from the date of the decision or action.

       …

6-3-010: DENIAL OF A BUSINESS LICENSE:

After a person has made application to the city for a business license, the application may
be denied for any of the following reasons:

…

E. Noncompliance with any requirement or condition set by the city council, planning
commission or community development department, if applicable, under a conditional use
permit or by the appeals and variance hearing officer or community development
department, if applicable, granting a variance or special exception.

…

6-3-020: REASONS FOR SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION:

An existing business license may be suspended or revoked for any of the following reasons:

…

G. The licensee is not complying with a requirement or condition set by the city council,
planning commission or community development department, if applicable, under a
conditional use permit; by the appeals and variance hearing officer or community
development department, if applicable, granting a variance or special exception; by the city
council, or by agreement;

…

8-5-140: APPEAL OF ADMINISTRATIVE DECISIONS:

A. The Appeals and Variance Hearing Officer, appointed pursuant to section 9-4-050 of
this Code, shall hear review and decide appeals from administrative decisions applying the
provisions of this chapter, specifically including appeals from the denial of a site license
application by the Public Works Director or the Zoning Administrator.

B. An applicant for a site license may appeal the denial of the application to the Appeals
and Variance Hearing Officer or City Council, as applicable, as provided in subsection C1 of
this section. A complete notice of appeal shall be filed within fourteen (14) days of the
decision which is appealed.

C. An appeal of an administrative decision shall be considered and processed as provided
in this subsection:

…

       2. After the notice of appeal is determined to be complete and timely filed, the
       Zoning Administrator shall schedule a public meeting hearing before the Appeals
       and Variance Hearing Officer within thirty (30) days of the date the notice of appeal
       is filed, unless otherwise agreed to in writing by the City and the appellant. At least
       ten (10) days prior to the public meeting hearing, the Appeals and Variance Hearing
       Officer shall give public provide due notice of the hearing and shall notify to the
       parties in interest. Prior to the public meeting hearing the Zoning Administrator
       shall transmit to the appellate body all papers constituting the record of the action
       which is appealed.

       3. An appeal to the Appeals and Variance Hearing Officer shall not stay
       proceedings taken in furtherance of the action appealed from unless such
       proceedings are specifically stayed by order of the Zoning Administrator. An
       appellant may request a stay by submitting to the Zoning Administrator, in writing, a
       request for a stay setting forth the reasons why a stay is necessary to protect
       against imminent harm. In determining whether or not to grant a stay, the Zoning
       Administrator shall assure that all potentially affected parties are given the
       opportunity to comment on the request. A ruling on the request for a stay shall be
       given within five (5) days from the date the request is received by the Zoning
       Administrator. The Zoning Administrator, in granting a stay, may impose additional
       conditions to mitigate any potential harm that may be caused by the stay, including
       requiring the appellant to post a bond.

       4. The Appeals and Variance Hearing Officer shall review the appeal on the record
       conduct at an open public meeting hearing based upon the record only, taking no
       new testimony or new information but relying solely upon the information and final
       decision of the officer or body from whom the appeal was taken. The Appeals and
       Variance Hearing Officer shall determine the correctness of the lower decision and
       thereafter affirm or reverse, wholly or in part, the lower decision, modify that
       decision, or impose any conditions needed to conform the matter appealed to
       applicable approval standards. The Appeals and Variance Hearing Officer shall have
       all the powers of the officer or body from whom the appeal was taken and may
       issue or direct the issuance of a site license.

       5. After the Appeals and Variance Hearing Officer makes a decision, the Zoning
       Administrator shall give the applicant written notice of the decision. The decision
       takes effect on the date when the Appeal Authority issues a written decision.

       …

9-3-040: DEFINITIONS:

As used in this title, the words and phrases defined in this section shall have the following
meanings unless the context clearly indicates otherwise:

…

VARIANCE: A modification granted by the appeals and variance hearing officer to a zoning
requirement for height, bulk, area, width, setback, separation, or other numerical or
quantitative requirement for a building or structure or other site improvements as set forth
in this title.

…

9-4-030: CITY COUNCIL:

…
B. Powers And Duties Related To This Title: In administering this title, the City Council shall
have the powers and duties set forth below. Each of such powers and duties shall be
exercised pursuant to the procedural and other provisions of this title.

…

       3. Hear and decide appeals from decisions of the Historic Preservation
       Commission.

       4 3. Establish a fee schedule for applications required by provisions of this title.

       …

9-4-050: APPEALS AND VARIANCE HEARING OFFICER:

A. There is hereby created and established an appeals and variance hearing officer of
Draper City to provide for just and fair treatment in the administration of the city’s zoning
ordinances, in accordance with provisions of the Utah mMunicipal lLand uUse,
dDevelopment, and mManagement aAct, set forth at Utah Code Annotated 10-9a-101
Section 10-20-101 et seq., as amended. The appeals and variance hearing officer shall have
such powers and duties as set forth below.

B. Appointment: The Appeals and Variance Hearing Officer shall be appointed as follows:

       1. The Appeals and Variance Hearing Officer shall be appointed by the Mayor with
       the advice and consent of the City Council.

       2. The Appeals and Variance Hearing Officer shall be appointed for a term of one
       year and thereafter may be appointed for succeeding one -year terms.

       3. The Appeals and Variance Hearing Officer shall, as a minimum, have such
       training and experience as will qualify them to review and decide conduct
       administrative or quasi-judicial hearings regarding land use appeals and variances
       and conduct administrative proceedings related to, land use development, and
       regulatory codes dealing with issues related to land use.

       4. The Mayor may remove the Appeals and Variance Hearing Officer for cause
       upon receipt of written charges filed against the appeals and variance hearing
       officer with the city manager and upon the advice and consent of the city council.
       The mayor shall provide the appeals and variance hearing officer with a public
       hearing if one is requested.

       5. In the case of death, resignation, removal or disqualification, the position of
       appeals and variance hearing officer shall be promptly filled by a replacement
       appointed by the mayor with the advice and consent of the city council for the
       unexpired term of the previous appeals and variance hearing officer.

       6. The appeals and variance hearing officer shall be considered an independent
       contractor and,; and as such, will enter into a year- long contract for services at the
      beginning of each appointed term. Terms for compensation and reimbursement will
      be determined and agreed upon in the aforementioned contract. The terms and
      conditions of the contract shall ultimately be approved by the city council prior to
      any individual entering into an agreement with the city to serve as the appeals and
      variance hearing officer.

      7. The mayor may, from time to time, appoint an appeals and variance hearing
      officer pro tempore on a temporary basis when necessitated by the absence,
      unavailability, incapacity or disqualification of the regularly appointed appeals and
      variance hearing officer upon the advice and consent of the city council. Each
      appeals and variance hearing officer pro tempore shall, as a minimum, have
      qualifications which are similar to the regularly appointed appeals and variance
      hearing officer.

C. Organization And Procedure: The appeals and variance hearing officer shall organize
and exercise its powers and duties as follows:

      1. The appeals and variance hearing officer may adopt reasonable policies and
      procedures in accordance with city ordinances to govern the conduct of its meetings
      and reviews hearings and for any other purposes considered necessary for the
      functioning of the position of appeals and variance hearing officer. Such policies and
      procedures shall be approved by the city council before taking effect.

      2. The appeals and variance hearing officer shall hold public meetings as needed to
      consider matters within its purview under this title. The appeals and variance
      hearing officer public meetings shall be held on the first Wednesday after the first
      Tuesday of each month and such other times deemed necessary by the appeals and
      variance hearing officer. All public meetings and hearings shall be properly noticed
      and held in accordance with the Utah oOpen and Public mMeetings Act law set forth
      in Utah Code Annotated section Section 52-4-1 et seq., as amended. Written
      minutes of all public meetings and hearings of the appeals and variance hearing
      officer shall be prepared and filed in the office of the city recorder for review and
      access by the public in accordance with the Draper City gGovernment rRecords
      aAccess and mManagement oOrdinance.

      3. The appeals and variance officer shall write a formal legal decision Decisions
      made by the appeals and variance hearing officer shall become effective at following
      the public meeting at which the matter is considered or hearing in which the
      decision is made, unless a different time is designated in by the appeals and
      variance hearing officer's accepted rules or at the time the decision is made public
      meeting.

D. Powers And Duties: The powers and duties of the appeals and variance hearing officer
shall be limited to the matters set forth below. Each of such powers and duties shall be
exercised pursuant to the procedural and other provisions of this title:
       1. Subject to the provisions of this chapter, hear review and decide appeals from
       zoning decisions of the planning commission or zoning administrator applying the
       provisions of this title.

       2. Hear Review and decide variances from the terms of this title.

       3. Hear Review and decide appeals from decisions made by the zoning
       administrator regarding chapter 6 of this title.

E. Appeals: Appeals to the appeals and variance hearing officer shall be filed in writing
with the zoning administrator within fourteen (14) days from the date of the decision or
action appealed as provided in subsection 9-5-180D1 of this title. The officer or department
from whom the appeal is taken shall forthwith transmit to the appeals and variance
hearing officer all papers constituting the record upon which the action appealed from was
taken.

F. Scheduling and Notice Of Hearing: The appeals and variance hearing officer shall fix
schedule a reasonable time to review for the hearing of each appeal or variance request
and provide due, give public notice thereof as well as due notice to the parties in interest,
at least ten (10) days prior to the hearing and shall set certain other criteria as to the form
of notice whether by publication, certified mail or other criteria, reasonably designed to
give notice to those parties subject to be affected thereby.

G. Decisions Of The Appeals And Variance Hearing Officer: At the hearing of any matter,
tThe parties affected may appear in person, with or without an attorney, and submit
materials or arguments at the public meeting. The appeals and variance hearing officer
shall decide all appeals, variances, and other issues brought before it within a reasonable
time.

H. Stay Of Proceedings: An appeal to the appeals and variance hearing officer shall not
stay proceedings taken in furtherance of the action appealed from unless such proceedings
are specifically stayed by order of the zoning administrator. An appellant may request a
stay by submitting to the zoning administrator, in writing, an application for a stay setting
forth the reasons why a stay is necessary to protect against imminent harm. In determining
whether or not to grant a stay, the zoning administrator shall assure that all potentially
affected parties are given the opportunity to comment on the request. A ruling on the
request for a stay shall be given within five (5) days from the date the request is received by
the zoning administrator. The zoning administrator, in granting a stay, may impose
additional conditions to mitigate any potential harm that may be caused by the stay,
including requiring the appellant to post a bond. Within ten (10) days of the zoning
administrator's decision regarding the grant or denial of a stay, any adversely affected
party may appeal the decision to the appeals and variance hearing officer, whose decision
will be final.

I. Appeals From The Appeals And Variance Hearing Officer: A land use applicant or
adversely affected party may file a petition for review of a final decision of the appeals and
variance hearing officer and may have and maintain a plenary action for relief therefrom in
any court of competent jurisdiction; provided, that the petition for such relief is presented
to the court within thirty (30) days from the date of the decision of the appeals and
variance hearing officer.

…

9-5-045: NOTICING:

Required notice of public meetings and hearings for land use applications and ordinances
shall include and comply with the following provisions:

…

C. Notice To Third Parties:

       1. For site specific land use applications that require a public hearing, the city shall:

              a. Mmail notice to the record owner of each lot or parcel within a four three
              hundred foot (400' 300') radius of the subject property, and. Properties that
              are within the three hundred foot (300') radius, but outside of Draper City
              boundaries, shall be sent notice equivalent to that sent to properties within
              Draper City.

              b. the applicant shall pPost one city provided sign along each street on
              which the subject property has frontage. If the subject property does not
              abut a street, then the sign shall be posted on a nearby street as determined
              by the zoning administrator. The sign shall be of sufficient size, durability,
              print quality and location that it is reasonably calculated to give notice to
              those passing by. It shall be the responsibility of the applicant to remove and
              dispose of the sign within five (5) calendar days after the hearing. Failure to
              do so shall constitute a violation of this section. Third party property owners
              who live within the four hundred foot (400') radius but outside of Draper City
              boundaries shall be sent notice equivalent to that sent to property owners
              within Draper City.

              c. Periodically verify that the posted signs remain in place until the end of
              the notice period, and replace the signs within a reasonable time after
              discovering that they have been removed or damaged.

       2. The applicant shall submit a signed affidavit of public posting.

       3. The affidavit shall include a photograph verifying that the sign has been installed,
       at least ten (10) days prior to the public hearing.

       4. Failure to post the public notice sign and provide the required verification at
       least ten (10) days prior to the public hearing will cause a delay in the processing of
       the application.
       5. If the sign is destroyed or damaged, the applicant shall replace the sign within
       seventy two (72) hours of being notified.

       2. For site specific land use applications which require a public meeting, the city
       shall mail notice to the record owner of each lot or parcel abutting the subject
       property. Properties that abut the subject property, but are outside of Draper City
       boundaries, shall be sent notice equivalent to that sent to properties within Draper
       City.

       3. 6. If the City receives written request from the department of transportation for
       electronic notice of each land use application that may adversely impact the
       development of a high priority transportation corridor, the City shall provide such
       notice.

       …

I. Notice Of Land Use Applications: The following land use applications shall be noticed at
least ten (10) calendar days before the public hearing or meeting:

       1. Conditional use permits;

       2. Site plans or site plan amendments; and

       3. Variances.

…

9-5-110: VARIANCES:

…

B. Authority: The appeals and variance hearing officer is authorized to hear review and
decide variances to the provisions of this title as provided in this section.

…

D. Procedure: An application for a variance shall be considered and processed as provided
in this subsection:

…

       2. After the application is determined to be complete, the zoning administrator
       shall transmit the application and supporting materials to schedule a public hearing
       before the appeals and variance hearing officer for review. The appeals and
       variance officer shall schedule the matter for consideration at an open public
       meeting as provided in Ssection 9-5-040 of this chapter. Notice to the applicant and
       parties in interest shall be of the meeting should be given as provided in section 9-5-
       045 of this chapter.
       …

       4. The appeals and variance hearing officer shall consider the application hold at
       an open and public meeting and thereafter shall approve, approve with conditions
       or deny the application pursuant to the standards set forth in subsection E of this
       section. Any conditions of approval shall be limited to conditions needed to conform
       the variance to approval standards.

       5. After the appeals and variance hearing officer makes a decision, the zoning
       administrator shall give the applicant written notice of the decision.

       …

E. Approval Standards: The following standards shall apply to a variance:

       1. The appeals and variance hearing officer may grant a variance only if:

       …

       2. The appeals and variance hearing officer may find an unreasonable hardship
       exists only if the alleged hardship is located on or associated with the property for
       which the variance is sought and comes from circumstances peculiar to the
       property, not from conditions that are general to the neighborhood. The appeals
       and variance hearing officer may not find an unreasonable hardship exists if the
       hardship is self-imposed or economic.

       3. The appeals and variance hearing officer may find that special circumstances
       exist only if the special circumstances relate to the hardship complained of and
       deprive the property of privileges granted to other properties in the same zoning
       district.

       …

       6. In granting a variance, the appeals and variance hearing officer may impose
       additional requirements on an applicant that will mitigate any harmful affects of the
       variance, or serve the purpose of the standard or requirement that is waived or
       modified.

       …

F. Appeal Of Decision: Appeals of a decision of the appeals and variance hearing officer
regarding a variance are governed by subsection 9-4-050(I) of this title.

…
9-5-180: APPEAL OF ADMINISTRATIVE DECISIONS:

A. Purpose: This section sets forth procedures for appealing an administrative decision
applying provisions of this title.

B. Authority: The appeals and variance hearing officer shall hear review and decide
appeals from administrative decisions applying the provisions of this title.

C. Initiation: The land use applicant, an officer of the city, or an adversely affected party
may appeal a decision administering or interpreting a provision of this title to the appeals
and variance hearing officer as provided in subsection D(1) of this section. A complete
Notice of Appeal shall be filed within ten (10) calendar days of the decision being appealed.

D. Procedure: An appeal of an administrative decision shall be considered and processed
as provided in this subsection and shall respect the due process rights of the participants.

       1. A complete Notice of Appeal shall be submitted to the Office of the zoning
       administrator on a form established by the administrator along with the fee
       established by the City in its consolidated fee schedule. The Notice of Appeal shall
       include at least the following information:

              a. The name, address and telephone number of the appellantlicant and the
              appellant’slicant's agent, if any;

              b. The decision appealed;

              c. Grounds for the appeal; and

              d. A description of the action claimed by the appellantlicant to be incorrect.

       2. After the Notice of Appeal is determined to be complete and timely filed, the
       zoning administrator shall coordinate with transmit to the appeals and variance
       hearing officer all papers constituting the record of the action appealed. The
       appeals and variance officer shall to schedule the matter for consideration at an
       open public meeting as provided in Section 9-5-040 of this title. Notice of the
       meeting shall be provided given as provided in subsection 9-4-050(F) of this title.
       Prior to the meeting the zoning administrator shall transmit to the appeals and
       variance hearing officer all papers constituting the record of the action which is
       appealed.

       3. An appeal to the appeals and variance hearing officer shall not stay proceedings
       taken in furtherance of the action appealed from unless such proceedings are
       specifically stayed by order of the zoning administrator. An appellant may request a
       stay by submitting to the zoning administrator, in writing, a request for a stay
       setting forth the reasons why a stay is necessary to protect against imminent harm.
       In determining whether or not to grant a stay, the zoning administrator shall assure
       that all potentially affected parties are given the opportunity to comment on the
       request. A ruling on the request for a stay shall be given within five (5) days from the
       date the request is received by the zoning administrator. The zoning administrator,
       in granting a stay, may impose additional conditions to mitigate any potential harm
       that may be caused by the stay, including requiring the appellant to post a bond.
       Within ten (10) days of the zoning administrator's decision regarding the grant or
       denial of a stay, any adversely affected party may appeal the decision to the appeals
       and variance hearing officer with jurisdiction over the appeal, whose decision will be
       final.

       4. The appeals and variance hearing officer shall review the appeal on the record
       conduct at an open public meeting hearing based upon the record only, taking no
       new testimony or new information but relying solely upon the information and final
       decision of the officer or body from whom the appeal was taken. The appellant has
       the burden of proving that the officer or body erred. In reviewing conducting the
       appeal, hearing the appeals and variance hearing officer shall:

              a. Determine whether the record on appeal includes substantial evidence
              for each essential finding of fact;

              b. Determine the correctness of the officer or body's interpretation and
              application of the plain meaning of the land use regulations and thereafter
              affirm or reverse, wholly or in part, the lower decision, modify that decision,
              or impose any conditions needed to conform the matter appealed to
              applicable approval standards; and

              c. Interpret and apply a land use regulation to favor a land use application
              unless the land use regulation plainly restricts the land use application.

       5. The appeals and variance hearing officer shall have all the powers of the officer
       or body from whom the appeal was taken and may issue or direct the issuance of a
       permit.

       6. After the appeals and variance hearing officer makes a decision, the zoning
       administrator shall give the appellantlicant written notice of the decision. The
       decision takes effect on the date when the appeal authority issues a written
       decision.

       7. A record of all appeals shall be maintained in the Office of the zoning
       administrator.

       …

9-6-050: NONCONFORMING STRUCTURES:

…

C. Enlargement And Expansion: Any expansion of a nonconforming structure that
increases the degree of nonconformityance is prohibited, except as provided in this
subsection:
…

       1. The initial determination of whether a proposed expansion increases the degree
       of nonconformity shall be made by the zoning administrator.

       2. A structure which that is legal and nonconforming as to height, area, or yard
       regulations may be added to or enlarged upon authorization by the appeals and
       variance hearing officer zoning administrator; provided, that the addition or
       enlargement does not increase the degree of nonconformity and the appeals and
       variance hearing officer zoning administrator, after a hearing, finds the expansion is
       to be compatible with the character of the surrounding neighborhood, will not
       significantly adversely affect and not detrimental to the community, as determined
       by the effect of the expansion on traffic, value of adjacent or nearby property
       values, and nearby properties, and the availability of adequate or public facilities
       and services, and complies with all other applicable standards of this title.

       …

9-6-140: APPEALS:

Any adversely affected party by a decision of the zoning administrator or other official
enforcing the provisions of this chapter may appeal for relief therefrom to the appeals and
variance hearing officer as provided in this title.

…

9-7-050: TYPES OF VIOLATIONS:

It shall be unlawful for any person to violate any provision of this title, cause the violation of
any provision of this title, or fail or refuse to do some act required under this title, including
any of the acts set forth in this section:

…

C. Development Or Use Inconsistent With Conditions Of Approval: To violate, by act or
omission, any lawful term, condition, or qualification placed by the city council, planning
commission, appeals and variance hearing officer, or officer of the city, as applicable, upon
a required permit, certificate, or other form of authorization granted by the city council,
planning commission, appeals and variance hearing officer, or other city officer, allowing
the use, development, or other activity upon land or improvements thereon.

…

9-7-060: REMEDIES:

Any violation of the provisions of this title shall be subject to the enforcement remedies
and penalties provided by this chapter and by Utah law, including any of the following:
A. Withhold Permits: The city may deny or withhold all permits, certificates, or other forms
of authorization pertaining to any land or improvements when an uncorrected violation
exists pursuant to this title or to a condition or qualification of a permit, certificate,
approval or other authorization previously granted by the city council, planning
commission, appeals and variance hearing officer, or other city officer. The city may,
instead of withholding or denying an authorization, grant such authorization subject to the
condition that the violation be corrected. The provisions of this section shall apply
regardless of whether the original applicant or current owner is responsible for the
violation in question.

…

9-7-100: APPEALS:

Any adversely affected party by a decision of the zoning administrator or other official
enforcing the provisions of this chapter may appeal for relief therefrom to the appeals and
variance hearing officer as provided in this title.

…

9-26-050: APPROVALS, PERMITS, APPLICATIONS AND ENFORCEMENT:

…

I. Appeal: An applicant for a sign permit or a permit holder may appeal the decision of the
zoning administrator to revoke the permit to the appeals and variance hearing officer by
filing an appeal application within fifteen (15) days of the date when the notice was served
or the date of the certified mailing.

…

9-27-140: LOTS AND YARDS:

…

C. Substandard Lots: No lot or parcel having less than the minimum width and area
required by the zone where it is located may be divided from a larger parcel of land,
whether by subdivision or metes and bounds, for the purpose, whether immediate or
future, of building or development as a lot except as permitted by this section or by the
appeals and variance hearing officer pursuant to the requirements of this title.

…

17-1-120: APPEALS:

A. Subject to subsection D, an appeal may be made to the Appeals and Variance Hearing
Officer from any decision, determination or requirement of the Zoning Administrator or
Planning Commission hereunder by filing with the community development department an
application and notice thereof in writing within ten (10) calendar days after such decision,
determination or requirement is made. Such notice shall set forth in detail the action and
grounds upon which the subdivider or other adversely affected party deems themselves
adversely affected.

B. The Zoning Administrator shall set the appeal for a public meeting hearing before the
Appeals and Variance Hearing Officer within a reasonable time after receipt of the appeal.
Such public meeting hearing may be continued by order of the Appeals and Variance
Hearing Officer. The appellant shall be notified of the appeal hearing date at least seven (7)
calendar days prior to the public meeting hearing. After reviewing hearing the appeal, the
Appeals and Variance Hearing Officer may affirm, modify, or reverse the decision,
determination or requirement appealed and enter any such orders as are in harmony with
the spirit and purpose of this title. The Appeals and Variance Hearing Officer shall notify the
appellant in writing of its ruling. The filing of an appeal shall stay all proceedings and
actions in furtherance of the matter appealed, pending a decision of the Appeals and
Variance Hearing Officer.

C. An adversely affected party may appeal the Appeals and Variance Hearing Officer's
decision to District Court as provided in Utah Code Annotated tTitle 10, cChapter 9a 20.

D. An applicant may appeal the city's failure to respond within twenty (20) business days
on the fourth or final review described in Section 17-1-080(B)(6). If the City fails to respond
within 20 business days on the fourth and final review, the City shall, upon request of the
property owner, and within 10 business days after the day on which the request is
received:

…

2. For a dispute arising from the subdivision ordinance review, advise the applicant in
writing of the deficiency in the application and of the right to appeal the determination to
the Appeals and Variance Hearing Officer in accordance with this section.

…

17-8-050: REVIEW:

…

C. Appeal: The applicant may appeal any decision of the Zoning Administrator or Planning
Commission to the Appeals and Variance Hearing Officer as provided in Section 17-1-120.

…
