                                       Development Review Committee
                                            1020 East Pioneer Road
                                              Draper, UT 84020
                                               January 5, 2026

To:                Draper City Planning Commission
                   Business Date: January 22, 2026

From:              Development Review Committee

Prepared By: Todd Taylor, Planner III
             Planning Division
             Community Development Department
             801-576-6510, todd.taylor@draperutah.gov

Re:      City Initiated Public Access Amenity – Zoning Text Amendment Request
         Application No.: 2026-0004-TA
         Applicant:        Draper City
         Project Location: City Wide
         Current Zoning: City Wide
         Acreage:          City Wide
         Request:          Request for approval of a Zoning Text Amendment to portions of
                           Draper City Municipal Code (DCMC) Title 9 to address recent
                           changes to Utah State Code related to public access amenities.



BACKGROUND AND SUMMARY

This application is a request for approval of a Zoning Text Amendment for the purpose of
amending portions of Draper City Municipal Code (DCMC) Title 9 to address recent changes
to Utah State Code.

The 2025 Utah State Legislative Session included House Bill (HB) 368 that enacted regulations
that prohibit a municipality requiring private maintenance of public access amenities, except
for park strips and sidewalks, or amenities agreed upon through an agreement between the
municipality and the private individual or entity. Draper City needs to amend the DCMC in
order to conform with the new State regulations.




City Initiated Public Access Amenity                                  App. No.: 2026-0004-TA
Zoning Text Amendment Request                         1
ANALYSIS

Text Amendments.

This report will review the modifications being proposed. The legislative copy of the changes
can be found in Exhibit B of this report. Additions to the text are indicated in blue, deletions
in red, and unchanged text in black.

DCMC Section 9-10-080: Planned Residential Development Overlay Zone: The required
components for all PRDs have been updated to remove the word “public” from the
requirements for open space.

DCMC Section 9-14-010: Purpose And Objectives of the TSD Zone: The objectives for the TSD zone
have been updated to change “public use space” to “open space”. Additionally, the reference
to Utah State Code has been updated.

DCMC Section 9-14-020: Definitions: The definition for “public use space” has been removed.

DCMC Section 9-14-040: Intensity Areas and Station Hub: The description of the intensity areas
for the TSD zone has been updated to change “public use space” to “open space”.

DCMC Section 9-14-060: Master Area Plan: The intent and requirements for a Master Area Plan
(MAP) in the TSD zone has been updated to change “public use space” to “open space”.
Connections to existing trail systems is emphasized. Additionally, the reference to Utah State
Code has been updated.

DCMC Section 9-14-080: Development Standards and Urban Design Regulations: The required
buffer from the Galena Hills Subdivision has been updated to change “public use space” to
“open space”.

DCMC Section 9-14-090: Site Plan Review: The site design for site plans in the TSD zone has
been updated to change “public use space” to “open space”.

DCMC Section 9-14-100: Project Specific Development Agreements: The references to Utah State
Code have been updated.

Criteria For Approval.

A Zoning Text Amendment is a matter committed to the legislative discretion of the City
Council and is not controlled by any one standard. However, in making a recommendation
to the City Council, the Planning Commission should consider the following factors in DCMC
Section 9-5-060(E)(2):




City Initiated Public Access Amenity                                 App. No.: 2026-0004-TA
Zoning Text Amendment Request                  2
    2. Text Amendments:
       a. Whether the proposed amendment is consistent with goals, objectives and policies of
           the city's general plan;
       b. Whether a proposed amendment furthers the specific purpose statements of the
           zoning ordinance;
       c. Whether the proposed amendment is appropriate given the context of the request and
           there is sufficient justification for a modification to the zoning ordinance;
       d. The proposed amendment will not create a conflict with any other section or part of
           this title or the general plan;
       e. Whether the potential effects of the proposed amendment have been evaluated and
           determined not to be detrimental to public health, safety, or welfare and represents an
           overall community benefit; and
       f. The extent to which a proposed text amendment implements best current, professional
           practices of urban planning, design, and engineering practices


REVIEWS

Planning Division Review. The Draper City Planning Division has completed their review of the
Zoning Text Amendment submission. Comments from this division, if any, can be found in
Exhibit A.

Engineering and Public Works Divisions Review. The Draper City Engineering and Public Works
Divisions have completed their reviews of the Zoning Text Amendment submission.
Comments from these divisions, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Building Division Review. The Draper City Building Division has completed their review of the
Zoning Text Amendment submission. Comments from this division, if any, can be found in
Exhibit A.

Fire Division Review. The Draper City Fire Marshal has completed their review of the Zoning
Text Amendment submission. Comments from this division, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Legal Division Review. The Draper City Attorney has completed their review of the Zoning Text
Amendment submission. Comments from this division, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Noticing. Notice has been properly issued in the manner outlined in the City and State Codes.


STAFF RECOMMENDATION

Staff recommends that the Planning Commission review the request, receive public
comment, and make a recommendation to the City Council based on the findings and the
criteria for approval, or denial, as listed within the staff report.




City Initiated Public Access Amenity                                   App. No.: 2026-0004-TA
Zoning Text Amendment Request                   3
MODEL MOTIONS

Sample Motion for Positive Recommendation – I move that we forward a positive
recommendation to the City Council for the City Initiated Public Access Amenity Zoning Text
Amendment, as requested by Draper City, Application No. 2026-0004-TA, based on the
following findings and the criteria for approval listed in the Staff Report dated January 5,
2026.

Findings for Approval:

    1. The proposed amendment is consistent with goals, objectives and policies of the
       City's General Plan;
    2. The proposed amendment is appropriate given the context of the request and there
       is sufficient justification for a modification to the development codes;
    3. The proposed amendment will not create a conflict with any other section or part of
       the development codes or the General Plan;
    4. The potential effects of the proposed amendment have been evaluated and are
       determined not to be detrimental to public health, safety, or welfare and represents
       an overall community benefit; and
    5. The proposed text amendment implements best current, professional practices of
       urban planning, design, and engineering practices.
    6. The proposed text amendment brings the text of the DCMC into compliance with
       State Code.



Sample Motion for Modified Positive Recommendation – I move that we forward a positive
recommendation to the City Council for the City Initiated Public Access Amenity Zoning Text
Amendment, as requested by Draper City, Application No. 2026-0004-TA, based on the
findings and criteria for approval listed in the Staff Report dated January 5, 2026, and as
modified by the following additional recommended modifications or findings:

    1. (List any additional modifications or findings…)



Sample Motion for Negative Recommendation – I move that we forward a negative
recommendation to the City Council for the City Initiated Public Access Amenity Zoning Text
Amendment, as requested by Draper City, Application No. 2026-0004-TA, based on the
following findings and the criteria for denial listed in the Staff Report dated January 5, 2026.

Findings for Denial:

    1. The proposed amendment is not consistent with goals, objectives and policies of the
       City's General Plan;



City Initiated Public Access Amenity                                 App. No.: 2026-0004-TA
Zoning Text Amendment Request                  4
    2. The proposed amendment is not appropriate given the context of the request and
       there is not sufficient justification for a modification to the development codes;
    3. The proposed amendment could create a conflict with another section or part of the
       development codes or the General Plan;
    4. The potential effects of the proposed amendment have been determined to be
       detrimental to public health, safety, or welfare or do not represent an overall
       community benefit; and
    5. The proposed text amendment is not consistent with best current, professional
       practices of urban planning, design, and engineering practices.




City Initiated Public Access Amenity                            App. No.: 2026-0004-TA
Zoning Text Amendment Request               5
                                      EXHIBIT A
                                 DEPARTMENT REVIEWS

REVIEWS ARE NOT MEANT TO BE AN ALL INCLUSIVE LIST OF POSSIBLE COMMENTS OR
CONDITIONS.



Planning Division Review.

   1. No additional comments received.

Engineering and Public Works Divisions Review.

   1. No additional comments received.

Building Division Review.

   1. No additional comments received.

Fire Division Review.

   1. No additional comments received.

Legal Division Review.

   1. No additional comments received.
                                        EXHIBIT B
                                   LEGISLATIVE DRAFT


CHAPTER 10 RESIDENTIAL ZONES

…

9-10-080: PLANNED RESIDENTIAL DEVELOPMENT OVERLAY ZONE:

…

I. Requirements Ffor All PRDs:

…

      2. Required Components Ffor All PRDs:

             a. Provision Oof Public Open Space: This shall mean the provision of
             common open space which is distinguishable by its quantity or quality and
             which is readily accessible to the residents of the development and the
             public. Opportunities to connect to adjacent open space or park areas are
             preferred methods to achieve this requirement as encouraged as per the
             Draper City open space conservation plan and the Draper City parks, trails,
             and recreation plan. Examples of such areas are the Jordan River Parkway,
             Willow Creek, and Corner Creek, but may include other locally important
             spaces, trails, and parks. The minimum overall open space to qualify for this
             factor is twenty five percent (25%) of the entire project area within the
             project area (road rights of way, park strips, private trails, and private yards
             cannot be utilized in calculating this percentage). One-half (1/2) of the overall
             provided open space shall be considered "developable land", as defined
             within this chapter (minimum 20 percent of overall project acreage). Public
             trails which conform to the locations shown on the Draper City master parks
             and trails plan, and related public spur trails, can be counted for this
             requirement. Small gathering places are also encouraged to be utilized and
             integrated throughout the project and shall be open to the public whether
             maintained privately or publicly. All public open space that meets this
             requirement does not necessarily constitute acceptance of the open space
             for perpetual maintenance by Draper City.

             No more than twenty five percent (25%) of the required overall PRD open
             space shall be in the form of linear parks or trails.

             …

L. Findings Required: Before approval or modified approval of an application for a
proposed PRD overlay zone, the planning commission and city council must find:
…

       5. That all required elements of providing public open space, preserving natural
       features, and providing interior amenities and an innovative site plan, have been
       met, in accordance with this chapter.

       …

9-14-010: PURPOSE AND OBJECTIVES OF THE TSD ZONE:

…

B. Objectives: The TSD is intended to promote and provide incentives to create a
clustered, high density residential mixed use and pedestrian friendly development with an
effort to provide ready accessibility to freeway service as well as a unique public transit
service environment. This type of development is generally referred to as TOD, or transit
oriented development, and by focusing development in proximity to transit stations, transit
oriented development can create interesting and successful urban centers, diminish urban
sprawl, and play a major role in realizing regional development strategies. The objectives of
the TSD are to:

…

       10. Integrate public use open spaces, plazas, courtyards and pocket parks and
       encourage, where reasonably possible, the connection of these areas to other uses
       in the TSD and existing public use open space and recreational system in the
       community of Draper City;

       …

       15. Pursuant to the authority of Utah Code Annotated section 10-9a-102(2)
       Subsection 10-20-101(2), as amended, specifically authorize the execution of one or
       more project specific development agreements and other ancillary agreements in
       connection with TSD developments, which development and ancillary agreements
       may, among other things, specify the obligations of the respective parties with
       respect to the installation of required infrastructure improvements, reimbursement
       for system improvements and oversizing, alternative approval and regulatory
       methods for specific projects or such other matters as the City and the applicable
       project applicant may agree; and

       …

9-14-020: DEFINITIONS:

As used in this chapter:

…
PUBLIC USE SPACE: An area of land set aside, dedicated, designated or reserved for public
or private use for recreational or amenity activities, including, but not limited to, parks,
plazas and patios.

…

9-14-040: INTENSITY AREAS AND STATION HUB:

       A. Intensity Areas: The TSD is composed of three (3) specific intensity areas: TSD-1;
       TSD-2; and TSD-3. Density is expected to be highest in the TSD-1 and TSD-2 intensity
       areas, which shall be pedestrian oriented and well connected to public use open
       spaces, parks, plazas and social gathering areas. Similar connectivity and pedestrian
       orientation is encouraged for the TSD-3 intensity area, but application of the
       foregoing requirements may not be as strictly applied given the orientation, grade,
       or other site specific constraints affecting the development of a particular parcel
       within the TSD-3 intensity area. Multiple uses consisting primarily of multi-family,
       commercial, retail, office, and a mix of the foregoing and other uses are particularly
       encouraged in the TSD-1 and TSD-2 intensity areas. The boundaries of the TSD-1,
       TSD-2, and TSD-3 intensity areas shall be as shown in section 9-14-110, exhibit 9-14-
       1 of this chapter, and may be adjusted from time to time as a text amendment to
       this chapter, pursuant to section 9-5-060 of this title. The official copies of all
       approved MAPs and intensity area boundaries shall be maintained in and by the
       Draper City Community Development Department.

       …

9-14-060: MASTER AREA PLAN:

A. Intent: The intent of the master area plan (MAP) and the process for submitting and
obtaining approval of such MAP is to provide an applicant of large or phased projects (MAP
area) with a mechanism to obtain the City's approval of a conceptual framework for such
projects within the TSD. Public use Open spaces, proposed land uses, and specific design
and development standards within the MAP area shall be identified and a conceptual plan
describing those elements of the MAP area shall be part of the MAP. An approved MAP
constitutes approval of a master plan that will guide future development within the MAP
area.

…

C. MAP Requirements:

       1. Narrative: Each MAP shall include a narrative providing the following:

       …

              c. A general description of proposed land uses, parking plan and public use
              open space elements to be included in the MAP area;
             d. A general description of the transportation systems within the MAP area,
             whether existing or proposed, including collector and arterial streets, public
             trails and trailheads, public transit, and a general description of the proposed
             plan for accommodating auto, bicycle and pedestrian circulation and
             connectivity, and parking, along with the utilization and accommodation of
             any existing or proposed public transit connections within the MAP area or
             located on to adjoining properties;

             …

             g. A general description of the estimated sequence and timing of
             development of the MAP area, including the proposed phasing of public use
             open space and any major on site or off site infrastructure improvements or
             facilities required or anticipated to be required in connection with the
             development of the MAP area;

             …

      2. Graphics: Each MAP shall include the following graphic submittals:

      …

             b. A conceptual drawing identifying the general location of any arterial and
             collector roadways, bicycle networks, and central or loop trail systems and
             trailheads planned for the MAP area, including connections to existing or
             planned trails;

             c. A conceptual drawing identifying the general location of any open space,
             neighborhood parks, plazas, or other major public use space social gathering
             areas proposed for the MAP area; and

             …

D. Review Process: Submittals for MAP approval shall follow the following process:

…

      2. City Council Review: After receiving the recommendation from the planning
      commission with respect to a MAP, the city council shall hold a public hearing within
      thirty (30) days of receipt of the recommendation. The city council shall approve,
      approve with conditions or deny the MAP within twenty one (21) days of the public
      hearing. The decision of the city council to approve or deny a MAP shall be deemed
      a final decision entitling the applicant to appeal the decision to a district court as set
      forth in Utah Code Annotated section 10-9a-801 Section 10-20-1109, as amended, or
      its successor section.

      …
G. Major And Minor Amendments: Provided the written review of the ACC has been
previously obtained and submitted to the city, including ACC review of a site plan or site
plan amendment, an approved MAP may be amended at any time and such amendment
may occur simultaneously with the processing of a site plan application or a site plan
amendment. The Zoning Administrator shall decide whether a proposed amendment is a
"major" or "minor" amendment. A major amendment shall be reviewed and approved or
denied using the process established for the initial MAP approval. A minor amendment
shall be reviewed and approved or denied by the Zoning Administrator. In order to initiate
an amendment, the applicant shall submit to the Zoning Administrator those MAP
submission items that would change if the proposed amendment were approved. Appeal
of the Zoning Administrator's decision regarding a MAP amendment shall be to the City
Council.

       1. Major Amendments: Changes of the following types shall define an amendment
       as major:

       …

               b. Those which materially alter the location or amount of land dedicated
               allocated to parks, trails, public use open space, natural areas or public
               facilities; or

               …

9-14-080: DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS AND URBAN DESIGN REGULATIONS:

…

B. Required Buffer: An average two hundred foot (200') wide, with a minimum one
hundred foot (100') wide, recreational or public use open space buffer is required
immediately south of and adjacent to the existing Galena Hills Subdivision. There shall be
no buffer required east of the west right-of-way boundary of Galena Park Boulevard, as
shown in section 9-14-110, exhibit 9-14-1 of this chapter. This buffer shall be extensively
landscaped and extend the length of the existing single-family residential development,
and is meant to assist in transitioning from the smaller scale of the existing residential
development to the taller, denser development of the TSD. Public infrastructure, including
roadways and related improvements may be located within the required buffer area only
for the purpose of providing connectivity to existing or proposed street rights-of-way. The
provision of this connectivity may be for permanent or temporary connections to the
existing or realigned Galena Hills Boulevard right-of-way and shall be provided in a manner
that the street connection within the buffer area is minimized to the greatest extent
possible for the most reasonable alignment. With the exception of the connection to the
existing or realigned Galena Hills Boulevard, there shall be no streets or roadways allowed
within the buffer area. Those portions of residential or commercial buildings that are
located within the area that is within fifty feet (50') of the required buffer shall be limited to
a maximum of thirty six feet (36') in height.
…

J. Public Use Open Space Requirements:

       1. The TSD shall include at least fifteen percent (15%) of the total development area
       for public use open space purposes, calculated on a per acre basis. For purposes of
       this requirement, public use open space shall include parks, trails, plazas,
       courtyards, or other outdoor amenities and public spaces, including hard surfaced
       areas conducive to enjoyment of the outdoors in an urban setting. Street pavement,
       curb and gutter, park strip, and standard sidewalk, i.e., five feet (5') or less in width,
       shall not be considered public use open space. For purposes of the determining
       public use open spaces, sidewalks or walkways of at least ten feet (10') in width
       which are designed and constructed as a part of the city's a trail system may be
       counted and included as public use open space.

       2. Provided the mechanism for allocating or distributing the public use open space
       is set forth in an approved MAP, the fifteen percent (15%) public use open space
       may be calculated on an aggregated basis across multiple phases and/or across
       multiple parcels within the TSD. In such circumstances, individual site plans or
       project specific MAPs may be approved without including on site public use open
       space, pursuant to an approved MAP public use open space strategy.

       3. Applicants of individual sites or phases may choose to make a onetime cash in
       lieu payment to the master developer to be used for the creation of public use open
       space within the TSD.

       4. Except as may be otherwise specified in an approved MAP, for large and phased
       developments, fifty percent (50%) of the required public use open space area shall
       be complete when fifty percent (50%) of the total MAP land area has been
       developed. One hundred percent (100%) of public use open space shall be complete
       when one hundred percent (100%) of the total MAP land area has been developed.
       These public use open space completion requirements may be waived by the city
       depending on the distribution and location of individual components within the
       overall public use open space system, as detailed in an approved MAP.

       …

9-14-090: SITE PLAN REVIEW:

D. ACC Review Criteria: The ACC review shall address the following criteria:

…

       2. Site Design:

       …
              g. Creation of outdoor public common spaces and contribution to the
              overall TSD public use open space strategy;

              …

9-14-100: PROJECT SPECIFIC DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENTS:

A. Project Specific Development Agreements Permitted: Pursuant to the authority of Utah
Code Annotated section 10-9a-102(2) Subsection 10-20-101(2), as amended, projects within
the TSD may be developed pursuant to a project specific development agreement (PSDA)
generally executed in connection with the completion of a MAP. Additional terms and
conditions not addressed in the MAP may be agreed to by the parties to a PSDA. The
provisions of an approved PSDA shall govern over any conflicting provisions of this Code,
except when such provisions compromise the health, safety and welfare of individuals.

…

C. City Council Review: The City Council shall hold a public hearing within forty five (45)
days of receipt of the PSDA application, unless additional time is requested by the
applicant. The City Council shall approve or deny the PSDA within twenty one (21) days of
the public hearing. The decision of the City Council to approve or deny a PSDA shall be
deemed a final decision entitling the applicant to appeal the decision to a District Court as
set forth in Utah Code Annotated section 10-9a-801 Section 10-20-1109, as amended, or its
successor section.

…
