                                  Development Review Committee
                                      1020 East Pioneer Road
                                        Draper, UT 84020
                                             February 17, 2026

To:              Draper City Planning Commission
                 Business Date: February 26, 2026

From:            Development Review Committee

Prepared By: Nick Whittaker, MCMP, Planner II
             Planning Division
             Community Development Department
             801-576-6522, Nick.Whittaker@draperutah.gov

Re:     Jones Lawnmowing, LLC.– Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit Request
        Application No.: 2025-0273-USE
        Applicant:        Naaman Jones
        Project Location: 191 E. Browns Loop Way
        Current Zoning: RA2 (Residential agricultural, 20,000 ft2 minimum lot size) Zone
        Acreage:          0.34 Acres (Approximately 14,810 ft2)
        Request:          Request for approval of an Home Occupation Conditional Use
                          Permit in the R3 zone to operate a Home Office for a lawnmowing
                          business.



BACKGROUND AND SUMMARY

This application is a request for approval of a Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit for
approximately 0.34 acres located on the North side of Browns Loop Way, at approximately
191 E. Browns Loop Way (Exhibit B & C). The property is currently zoned RA2. The applicant
is requesting that a Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit be approved to allow for a
home office to operate a lawnmowing business.

The property is Lot 1 of the Browns Pond, Phase 2 Subdivision. A detached single-family
dwelling was built on the property in 2013. The Home Occupation utilizes an office located
on the main floor of the dwelling, inventory storage space in the third car garage and a
concrete pad on the east side of the property to store a dumpster and provide off-street
employee parking (Exhibits F, G & H).




Jones Lawnmowing, LLC.                                             App. # 2025-0273-USE
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit Request       1
ANALYSIS

General Plan and Zoning.

 Table 1                   General Plan and Zoning Designations                 Exhibit
 Existing Land Use         Residential Medium Density                           Exhibit D
 Current Zoning            RA2                                                  Exhibit E
 Adjacent Zoning
    East                   RA2
    West                   RA2
    North                  R3 (Single-Family Residential)
    South                  R3

The Residential Medium Density land use designation is characterized as follows:




Jones Lawnmowing, LLC.                                             App. # 2025-0273-USE
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit Request    2
According to Draper City Municipal Code (DCMC) Section 9-8-020 the purpose of the RA2
zone is to, “foster low density development with little impact on its surroundings and
municipal services; to generally preserve the character of the city's semirural areas; and to
promote and preserve conditions favorable to large lot family life, including the keeping of
limited numbers of animals and fowl. The predominant use in these zones is intended to
be detached single-family dwellings, protected from encroachment by commercial and
industrial uses.”

Home Occupation. The DCMC Section 9-34-040 outlines development standards applicable
to all home occupations. Those criteria, along with information specific to the subject
request, are as follows:

        A. Ownership: The home occupation shall be owned and operated by a person who
             resides in the dwelling where the home occupation is located. Such person shall
             be the primary provider of the labor, work, or service provided in the home
             occupation.

                 •    The applicant owns the business and resides in the dwelling where the
                      home occupation is located.

        B. Business License: A business license for the home occupation shall be obtained
             from and continually maintained with the city pursuant to title 6, chapter 11 of
             this code.

                 •    The applicant has applied for a business license.

        C. Employees: Members of the family of the owner who reside in the dwelling may
             be employed in the home occupation. Nonfamily or nonresident employees
             shall be limited to one person.

                 •    The applicant has two non-resident employees who come to the home
                      (Exhibit H).
                 •    The applicant is requesting a deviation from this criterion.

        D. Inspection: All facilities shall comply with fire, building, plumbing, electrical and
             all other city, county, state and federal codes. Inspections during reasonable
             hours by city officials may occur as necessary to assure compliance with
             regulations.

                 •    The applicant will comply with this criterion (Exhibit H).




Jones Lawnmowing, LLC.                                                     App. # 2025-0273-USE
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit Request     3
        E. Inventory: No stock in trade, inventory, or other merchandise to exceed two
             hundred fifty (250) square feet shall be kept on the premises. No outside storage
             is allowed.

                 •    The applicant stores his equipment inside of a trailer which is then stored
                      in the third car garage which utilizes approximately 207 ft2 of storage
                      space (exhibits F & H)

        F. Modification Of Structures Or Yards: There shall be no visible evidence from the
             exterior of a dwelling that it is being used for any other purpose than that of a
             dwelling. No activities shall be carried on outside the dwelling in the yard for the
             benefit of or incidental to the home occupation. No front yard area shall be
             altered to provide parking required for a home occupation.

                 •    The applicant has a small dumpster on the east side of his property that
                      is used to dump lawn clippings in. The dumpster is screened by a six-foot
                      vinyl fence which matches the fencing surrounding the rear yard area.
                      (Exhibits F & H)
                 •    The subject property has a concrete pad located on the east side of the
                      home where the dumpster is located and where two off street parking
                      stalls for employees are located.
                 •    The applicant is requesting a deviation from this criterion

        G. Nuisance: Tools, items, equipment, or activities conducted within the dwelling
             which is offensive or noxious by reason of the emission of odor, smoke, gas,
             vibration, magnetic interference, or noise shall be prohibited.

                 •    The applicant indicates that the home occupation does not create such
                      nuisances.

        H. Secondary Use: The home occupation shall be clearly incidental and secondary
             to the primary use of the dwelling for residential purposes. The home
             occupation shall not disrupt the normal residential character of the
             neighborhood in which the residence is located. Not more than twenty five
             percent (25%) of the dwelling unit shall be used for the home occupation.

                 •    There is a home office area within the dwelling of approximately 200 ft2
                      and storage space of approximately 207 ft2 which is approximately 9 % of
                      the dwelling units total square footage (Exhibits G & H).

        I.   Signs: All signage in a residential area must comply with chapter 26, "Signs", of
             this title.




Jones Lawnmowing, LLC.                                                   App. # 2025-0273-USE
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit Request    4
                 •    According to the applicant there are no signs associated with the
                      business at the home (Exhibit H).

        J.   Traffic, Parking, And Access: No home occupation use shall generate pedestrian,
             parking, or vehicular traffic in excess of that customarily associated with the
             zone in which the use is located. All parking shall be provided and maintained on
             site with adequate provision for drop off traffic.

                 •    Two employees come to the home. The applicant has provided two off-
                      street parking stalls for the employee vehicles (Exhibits F & H)
                 •    The applicant is requesting a deviation from this criterion.



        K. Vehicles: Other than the business owner's personal transportation, there shall
             be no vehicles or equipment on the property associated with the home
             occupation which would not normally be found at a residence. No signage for
             the home occupation shall be allowed on vehicles.

                 •    The applicant parks his personal truck, that is also used for the business,
                      on the driveway.
                 •    Two employees park their vehicles in off street parking stalls located on
                      the east side of the home. These stalls do not impact the required
                      parking inside of a garage for the single-family dwelling.
                 •    Lawn mowing equipment is stored inside of a trailer which is parked in
                      the third car garage space
                 •    There is no signage on any vehicles
                 •    The applicant is requesting a deviation from this criterion

        L. Yards: Yards surrounding the dwelling and accessory buildings shall not be used
             for any activities or storage of any materials associated with the home
             occupation.

                 •    A concrete pad located on the east side of the subject property is used to
                      provide employee vehicle parking (Exhibits F & H).
                 •    A dumpster is stored on the east side of the property on a concrete pad,
                      and screened from view with a 6-foot tall vinyl fence.
                 •    The applicant is requesting a deviation from this criterion

        M. Customers: No customers allowed. Children accessing a limited daycare or
           limited preschool facility shall not be considered customers.

                 •    No customers come to the home (Exhibit H).




Jones Lawnmowing, LLC.                                                   App. # 2025-0273-USE
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit Request    5
        N. Utility Demand: The home occupation shall not cause a demand for public
             utilities in excess of that necessarily and customarily provided for residential
             uses.

                 •    The applicant indicates that they won’t cause a demand for public
                      utilities. (Exhibit H).

        O. Main Structure: The home occupations shall be conducted, located, and
           contained within the primary structure on the property.

                 •    The applicant indicates that they conduct business in an office located in
                      the dwelling that is approximately 200 ft2 (Exhibits G & H).
                 •    The applicant indicates that a dumpster is stored at the property in the
                      yard.
                 •    The applicant is requesting a deviation from this criterion

        P. Single-Family And Multiple-Family Dwellings: Home occupations listed as
             permitted or conditional within this title may be permitted in a single-family or a
             multiple-family dwelling, subject to the standards found within this section and
             section 9-34-060 of this chapter. Businesses within multiple-family dwellings
             shall provide an approval letter from the respective homeowners' association, or
             management company in the case of apartments, if the business proposes any
             employees, customers or business vehicles.

                 •    The applicant’s property is a single-family dwelling and an approval letter
                      from an HOA or management company is not required.

        Q. Licensure: Any home occupation involving childcare shall comply with all
             applicable state and local laws and regulations regarding residential childcare,
             including, but not limited to, provisions of the Utah child care licensing act, as set
             forth in Utah Code Annotated section 26-39-101 et seq., as amended, and the
             residential certificate childcare standards as set forth in the Utah administrative
             code section R430-50-1 et seq., as amended. In addition, cottage food
             production operations are regulated and inspected by the Utah department of
             agriculture. Any food related home occupation under their jurisdiction must
             comply with these regulations.

                 •    The home occupation does not involve child care or food production.



Based upon the staff review of the applicants request and the permitted use requirements
to operate a Home Occupation found in DCMC 9-8-020, the applicant will need approval
from the Planning Commission for multiple deviations from the listed requirements.



Jones Lawnmowing, LLC.                                                    App. # 2025-0273-USE
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit Request    6
Deviations from the operational criteria are allowed through the Conditional Use Permit
process. Staff believes that the proposed home occupation does have the potential to
impact traffic due to employees coming to the home and parking their vehicles, as well as
the aesthetic impact to the neighborhood by storing a dumpster on the property. However,
the applicant has provided two off-street parking stalls to mitigate parking related issues
and only two (2) employees will come to the home which will create minimal if any traffic
issues. The applicant has also provided adequate screening of the dumpster which
mitigates some of the aesthetic impacts to the neighborhood, however, the smell of the
dumpster could be a nuisance, but this can be mitigated by having the dumpster emptied
weekly and keeping the lid closed.



Criteria For Approval.

The criteria for review and potential approval of a conditional use permit request is found
in Section 9-5-080(E) of the DCMC. This section depicts the standard of review for such
requests as:

        E. Approval Standards: The standards of this subsection shall apply to the issuance
            of a conditional use permit:
         1. A conditional use permit may be issued for a use to be located within a zone
            where the particular conditional use is allowed by the use regulations of the
            zone.
         2. Reasonable conditions may be imposed as necessary to substantially mitigate
            reasonably anticipated detrimental effects of the proposed use. These
            conditions may include conditions concerning use, construction, character,
            location, landscaping, screening, parking, hours of operation, and other matters
            relating to the purposes and objectives of this section. Such conditions shall be
            expressly set forth in the motion authorizing the conditional use permit.
         3. If the reasonably anticipated detrimental effects of a proposed conditional use
            cannot be substantially mitigated by the imposition of reasonable conditions to
            achieve compliance with applicable standards, the conditional use may be
            denied.
         4. The following factors shall be reviewed and considered in determining whether a
            conditional use permit application should be approved, approved with
            conditions, or denied because reasonable conditions cannot be imposed to
            achieve compliance with applicable standards:
              a. The harmony and compliance of the proposed use with the objectives and
                 requirements of the city's general plan and this title;
              b. The suitability of the specific property for the proposed use;
              c. Whether the proposed use or facility may be injurious to potential or existing
                 development in the vicinity;




Jones Lawnmowing, LLC.                                                App. # 2025-0273-USE
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit Request   7
              d. The economic impact of the proposed facility or use on the surrounding
                 area;
              e. The aesthetic impact of the proposed facility or use on the surrounding area;
              f. The safeguards proposed or provided to ensure adequate utilities,
                 transportation access, drainage, parking, loading space, lighting, screening,
                 landscaping, open space, fire protection, and pedestrian and vehicular
                 circulation;
              g. The safeguards provided or proposed to prevent noxious or offensive
                 emissions such as noise, glare, dust, pollutants and odor from the proposed
                 facility or use; and
              h. The impact of the proposed facility or use on the health, safety, and welfare
                 of the city, the area, and persons owning or leasing property in the area.
          5. The planning commission may request additional information as may be
             reasonably needed to determine whether the requirements of this subsection E
             can be met.


REVIEWS

Planning Division Review. The Draper City Planning Division has completed their review of
the Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit submission. Comments from this division, if
any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Engineering and Public Works Divisions Review. The Draper City Engineering and Public
Works Divisions have completed their reviews of the Home Occupation Conditional Use
Permit submission. Comments from these divisions, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Building Division Review. The Draper City Building Division has completed their review of
the Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit submission. Comments from this division, if
any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Fire Division Review. The Draper City Fire Marshal has completed his review of the Home
Occupation Conditional Use Permit submission. Comments from this division, if any, can be
found in Exhibit A.

Noticing. Notice has been properly issued in the manner outlined in the City and State
Codes.



STAFF RECOMMENDATION

Staff recommends that the Planning Commission review the request based on the findings
and criteria for approval, or denial as listed within the staff report. The Planning



Jones Lawnmowing, LLC.                                                App. # 2025-0273-USE
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit Request   8
Commission should also review the request, hear from the applicant, and receive public
comment prior to making a decision.

If the Planning Commission decides to approve the request, staff recommends they include
the following conditions of approval:

    1. That all requirements of the Draper City Engineering, Public Works, Building,
        Planning, and Fire Divisions are satisfied.
    2. That a Draper City business license shall be obtained and maintained by the
        business owner for as long as the business remains in operation.
    3. That only one (1) business vehicle shall be allowed as part of the business and that
        is must be parked on the property in the location shown on the approved site plan
        when at the subject property.
    4. No customers are permitted to come to the home.
    5. That the business shall be limited to a maximum of two (2) non-resident employees.
    6. That the employees park their vehicles in the designated off-street parking stalls as
        shown in the site plan.
    7. That storage of all inventory, supplies, and equipment shall be located inside the
        third car garage.
    8. That the dumpster shall be screened and the lid closed except when being filled or
        emptied.
    9. That the dumpster shall be maintained at all times and properly emptied at least
        once a week.
    10. That the business or business operations shall not create any of the nuisances listed
        in DCMC Section 9-34-040(G).
    11. That the applicant shall bring their driveway into compliance by reducing the width
        to no more than 30 feet as described in DCMC 9-10-075(A)(1)



MODEL MOTIONS AND FINDINGS

Sample Motion for Approval – I move that we approve the Home Occupation Conditional
Use Permit, as requested by Naaman Jones, Application 2025-0273-USE, based on the
following findings for approval and subject to the conditions listed in the Staff Report dated
February 16, 2026.

Findings for approval:

        1. The proposal complies with the standards for approval found in DCMC Section 9-
           5-080(E) and potential negative impacts are mitigated through the imposition of
           reasonable conditions.




Jones Lawnmowing, LLC.                                               App. # 2025-0273-USE
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit Request   9
I move that we approve the Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit, as requested by
Naaman Jones, Application 2025-0273-USE, based on the findings for approval and subject
to the conditions listed in the Staff Report dated February 16, 2026 and as modified by the
following additional findings or conditions:

        1. (List any additional findings…)
        2. (List any additional conditions…)

Sample Motion for Denial – I move that we deny the Home Occupation Conditional Use
Permit, as requested by Naaman Jones, Application 2025-0273-USE, based on the following
findings for denial listed in the Staff Report dated February 16, 2026.

Findings for denial:

        1. The proposal does not comply with the standards for approval found in DCMC
           Section 9-5-080(E) and potential negative impacts are not mitigated through the
           imposition of reasonable conditions.




Jones Lawnmowing, LLC.                                              App. # 2025-0273-USE
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit Request   10
                    DEVELOPMENT REVIEW COMMITTEE ACKNOWLEDGEMENT

We, the undersigned, as duly appointed members of the Draper City Development Review
Committee, do acknowledge that the application which provides the subject for this staff
report has been reviewed by the Committee and has been found to be appropriate for
review by the Draper City Planning Commission and/or City Council.       Digitally signed by Todd Draper
                                                                         DN: C=US,
                                                                         E=todd.draper@draperutah.gov,
                                                                         O=Draper City Community
                                                           Todd Draper   Development Department,
                                                                         OU=Planning and Zoning,
                                                                         CN=Todd Draper
                                                                         Date: 2026.02.20 10:23:36-07'00'




__________________________________                    __________________________________
Draper City Public Works Department                   Draper City Planning Division




__________________________________                    __________________________________
Draper City Fire Department                           Draper City Legal Counsel




__________________________________
Draper City Building Division




Jones Lawnmowing, LLC.                                                      App. # 2025-0273-USE
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit Request   11
                                     EXHIBIT A
                                DEPARTMENT REVIEWS

REVIEWS ARE NOT MEANT TO BE AN ALL-INCLUSIVE LIST OF POSSIBLE COMMENTS OR
CONDITIONS.



Planning Division Review.

       1.     No Additional Comments

Engineering and Public Works Divisions Review.

       1.     No Additional Comments

Building Division Review.

       1.     No Additional Comments

Fire Division Review.

       1.     No Additional Comments
  EXHIBIT B
VICINITY MAP
 EXHIBIT C
AERIAL MAP
  EXHIBIT D
LAND USE MAP
 EXHIBIT E
ZONING MAP
EXHIBIT F
SITE PLAN
                                            Key
                                        = Dumpster (7.5’ x 8.5’x 6)


        Shed                            = Office Space (13’x6’)

                                        =Trailer & Equipment

                                        = Spot for cars

                                        = Shed (10’x20’)

                                        = Parking area is (23’x24’)




                    Parking area   Jones Lawnmowing
                     1st    2nd
                     car    car


         Office
                    Dumpster
Equipment/trailer


     Spot
      for
     cars




                                                            Updated map: 12/18/25
 EXHIBIT G
FLOOR PLAN
Office Space 13X6
      EXHIBIT H
APPLICANT STATEMENTS
Employee Parking and Dumpster Fence

I have a small crew of 1 or 2 employees that does weeding and flowerbed maintenance. There
is room in my driveway to park 2 employee cars. The employees cars will be parked in my
driveway for up to 5 hours four days a week and they will use my personal vehicle that is
normally be parked in my driveway. No cars will not be parked on the street and will appear just
like any other car parked in a driveway. It will not increase the number of vehicles at my home.
This employee(s) will be at the home long enough to exchange vehicles. (See map for parking
area

The height of the dumpster enclosure is 6 feet. This height completely hides the dumpster which
is 5’ 3” at its tallest point. This fence is a standard height and is the same height as the fencing
that goes around my yard and most of the yards in my neighborhood that have fencing. The
dimensions of the dumpster enclosure are
8.5’ long x 7.5’ wide x 6’ tall
