                       CITY COUNCIL AGENDA

                       Tuesday, January 6, 2026, 5:30 PM
                       1020 E. Pioneer Rd.
                       Draper, Utah 84020
STUDY SESSION

       CLOSED MEETING, IF NECESSARY - TO BE ANNOUNCED IN MOTION
       The Draper City Council may temporarily recess the meeting and convene
       in a closed meeting as provided by UCA § 52-4-205.

       Discussion: Boundary Line Adjustments with Bluffdale - Mike Barker

       Discussion: Designation of Emergency Succession of City Officers - Mike
       Barker

       Discussion: TRSSD Streetlights - Robert Markle

       Discussion: Scooter Text Amendments - Traci Gundersen/Chief Ferguson

       Discussion: 300 E. & Pioneer Encroachment - Jen Jastremsky

       Council/Manager Reports

7:00 PM BUSINESS SESSION

1.     Call to Order

2.     Flag Ceremony and Pledge of Allegiance - Cub Scout Troop #4444

3.     Proclamation
       Religious Freedom Day

4.     Public Comments
       To be considerate of everyone attending the meeting, public comments will be
       restricted to items that are not listed on this or a future agenda and limited to
       three minutes per person. Comments which cannot be made within these limits
       should be submitted in writing to the City Recorder prior to noon the day before
       the meeting. Comments pertaining to an item on the agenda should not be
       given at this time but should be held until that item is called.

5.     Consent Items

       5.a Approve the December 16, 2025 City Council Meeting Minutes
     5.b Approve Resolution #26-01
         A resolution authorizing the mayor to execute an agreement to realign a
         flood control access easement with Salt Lake County Flood Control. Staff:
         Rhett Ogden.

     5.c Approve Resolution #26-02
         A resolution of the Draper City Council adopting a Tree Retention,
         Indemnity, and Assumption of Risk Agreement for residents who elect to
         retain a street tree after notice that the tree is causing damage to the right
         of way. Staff: Robert Markle.

     5.d Approve Resolution #26-04
         A resolution of the Draper City Council approving franchise agreements with
         Summit IG, LLC and First Digital Telecom. Staff: Spencer DuShane.

     5.e Approve Ordinance #1698
         An ordinance of the Draper City Council amending Title 3, Chapter 5 of the
         Draper City Municipal Code to consolidate the Community Engagement
         Committee and the Special Event Arena Committee into the Community
         Engagement and Events Committee. Staff: Kellie Challburg.

6.   Items for Council Consideration

     6.a Public Hearing: Ordinance #1697
         An ordinance amending the Official Zoning Map of Draper City for
         approximately 1.04 acres of property from RA1 (Residential Agricultural) to
         R3 (Single-family Residential), located at approximately 283 E. Tanager Ln.
         known as the Butler Zoning Map Amendment. Staff Report by Paul Geilman.

7.   Action Items


     7.a Approve Resolution #26-03
         A resolution of the Draper City Council adopting the Draper City 2026
         Comprehensive Emergency Management Plan and Logistics Annex. Staff
         report by Nick Roble.

8.   Adjournment
I, the City Recorder of Draper City, certify that copies of this agenda for the Draper City
Council meeting to be held January 6, 2026, were posted at Draper City Hall, Draper City
website www.draperutah.gov, and the Utah Public Notice website at www.utah.gov/pmn.




                                             Nicole Smedley, CMC, City Recorder
                                             Draper City, State of Utah



In compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act, any individuals needing special
accommodations or services during this meeting shall notify Nicole Smedley, City
Recorder at (801) 576-6502 or nicole.smedley@draperutah.gov, at least 24 hours prior to
the meeting.
