                       CITY COUNCIL AGENDA

                       Tuesday, February 17, 2026, 5:30 PM
                       1020 E Pioneer Rd,
                       Draper, Utah 84020
5:30 PM STUDY SESSION (ADMINISTRATIVE CONFERENCE ROOM)

       CLOSED MEETING, IF NECESSARY - TO BE ANNOUNCED IN MOTION

       The Draper City Council may temporarily recess the meeting and convene in a
       closed meeting as provided by UCA § 52-4-205.

       Report: Jordan Valley Water Conservancy District - John Richardson

       Discussion: Legislative Update - Mike

       Discussion: Short Term Rentals - Todd T.

       Discussion: Phebe Brown Trail - Rhett

       Discussion: City Commissions and Committees - Mike

       Council / Manager Reports

7:00 PM BUSINESS SESSION (CITY COUNCIL CHAMBERS)

1.     Call to Order

2.     Pledge of Allegiance

3.     Public Comments
       To be considerate of everyone attending the meeting, public comments will be
       restricted to items that are not listed on this or a future agenda and limited to three
       minutes per person. Comments which cannot be made within these limits should be
       submitted in writing to the City Recorder prior to noon the day before the meeting.
       Comments pertaining to an item on the agenda should not be given at this time but
       should be held until that item is called.

4.     Consent Items

       4.a Approve the February 3, 2026 City Council Meeting Minutes

       4.b Approve Resolution #26-10
           A resolution reappointing Christine Green as an alternate member of the
           Draper City Planning Commission. Staff: Kellie Challburg.
5.   Items for Council Consideration

     5.a Public Hearing: Ordinance #1701
         An ordinance of Draper City amending the text of Titles 9, 11, and 17 of the
         Draper City Municipal Code in order to update references to Utah State
         Code. Known as the City Initiated Utah State Code Reference Update Text
         Amendment. Staff presentation by Todd Draper.

     5.b Public Hearing: Ordinance #1702
         An ordinance of Draper City amending the text of Titles 2, 3, 6, 8, 9, and 17
         of the Draper City Municipal Code related to variances and land use
         appeals. Known as the City Initiated Variance and Land Use Appeal Update
         Text Amendment. Staff presentation by Todd Draper.

     5.c Public Hearing: Ordinance #1703
         An ordinance of Draper City amending the text of Title 9 of the Draper City
         Municipal Code related to public access amenities. Known as the City
         Initiated Public Access Amenity Zoning Text Amendment. Staff presentation
         by Todd Draper.

     5.d Public Hearing: Ordinance #1704
         An ordinance of Draper City amending the text of Title 9 of the Draper City
         Municipal Code related to residential parking requirements. Known as the
         City Initiated Residential Parking Requirements Zoning Text Amendment.
         Staff presentation by Todd Draper.

     5.e Public Hearing: Ordinance #1705
         An ordinance adjusting the common boundaries between Draper City and
         Highland City. Staff presentation by Mike Barker.

     5.f Public Hearing: Resolution #26-11
         A resolution amending the adopted budget and staffing document of
         Draper City for Fiscal Year 2025-2026. Staff presentation by John Vuyk.

6.   Adjournment
I, the City Recorder of Draper City, certify that copies of this agenda for the Draper City
Council meeting to be held February 17, 2026, were posted at Draper City Hall, Draper
City website www.draperutah.gov, and the Utah Public Notice website at
www.utah.gov/pmn.




                                              Nicole Smedley, CMC, City Recorder
                                              Draper City, State of Utah



In compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act, any individuals needing special
accommodations or services during this meeting shall notify Nicole Smedley, City
Recorder at (801) 576-6502 or nicole.smedley@draperutah.gov, at least 24 hours prior to
the meeting.
