MINUTES OF THE DRAPER CITY PLANNING COMMISSION MEETING HELD ON
THURSDAY, DECEMBER 18, 2025, IN THE DRAPER CITY COUNCIL CHAMBERS

PARTICIPATING: Andrew Adams, Chair
               Lisa Fowler, Vice-Chair
               Commission Member Susan Nixon
               Commission Member Mary Squire
               Alternate Commission Member Laura Fidler
               Alternate Commission Member Christine Green

EXCUSED:               Commission Member Kendra Shirey
                       Commission Member Gary Ogden
                       Traci Gundersen, City Attorney

STAFF:                 Jennifer Jastremsky, Community Development Director
                       Todd Draper, Planning Manager
                       Nick Whitaker, City Planner
                       Lori Stout, Executive Assistant
                       Brien Maxfield, City Engineer
                       Spencer DuShane, Assistant City Attorney

6:30 PM Business Meeting

Chair Andrew Adams called the meeting to order at 6:30 PM.

1.     Items for Commission Consideration.

       A.      Public Hearing: The Break Subdivision Plat Amendment
               (Administrative Item)
               On the request of Gary Knapp, representing LM Restaurant Group, LC, a Subdivision
               Plat Amendment located on 1.02 acres of property located at approximately 12240
               South 700 East and 12258 South 700 East, known as Application 2025-0174-SUB,
               staff contact: Nick Whittaker, nick.whittaker@draperutah.gov, 801-576-6522.

City Planner Nick Whittaker presented the staff report and displayed the vicinity, aerial, land use, and
zoning maps. The subject property is located near the intersection of 700 East and 12300 South and
is designated Neighborhood Commercial and zoned Community Commercial (“CC”).

The amended subdivision plat was reviewed. A portion of Lot 7 would be incorporated into a single
lot to accommodate a commercial development. A geotechnical study conducted at the subject
property determined that the proposal was acceptable. In response to a question from Commissioner
Fowler, Mr. Whittaker clarified that the structures shown on the amended plat would be removed
before final recordation. Community Development Director Jennifer Jastremsky reported that the
structures were recently demolished.

Commissioner Nixon recalled that a bar and grill was planned for the site and asked if the site plan
would come before the Planning Commission to confirm distancing standards for alcohol sales. Ms.
Jastremsky reported that when the liquor license application is received, the Business License Official
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
December 18, 2025
Page 2

will verify adherence to State distancing standards. The application will then go to the City Council
as a local consent item.

The applicant, Gary Knapp, indicated that the subdivision amendment would combine the properties
into one, and The Break Sports Grill will be built on the property.

Chair Adams opened the public hearing. There were no comments. The public hearing was closed.

Motion: Commissioner Squire moved to APPROVE the Subdivision Plat Amendment, as
requested by Gary Knapp, representing LM Restaurant Group, LC, application 2025-0174-
SUB, based on the following Finding for Approval as listed in the Staff Report dated
December 8, 2025.

Finding for Approval:

       1.       There is good cause for the amendment, and no public street or municipal utility
                easement will be vacated or amended.

Second: Commissioner Fowler seconded the motion.

Vote on Motion: 5-to-0 in favor.

            Commissioner Yes        No    Abstained      Not Participating     Absent
            Chair Adams                       X
            Fowler            X
            Squire            X
            Nixon             X
            Shirey                                                                  X
            Ogden                                                                   X
            Fidler, Alternate X
            Green, Alternate  X

       B.       Public Hearing: T-Mobile Steep Mountain Park Amended Conditional Use
                Permit Request.
                (Administrative Item)
                On behalf of Declan Murphy, representing Coal Creek Consulting and T-Mobile, a
                Conditional Use Permit to amend details and conditions for a previously approved
                Wireless Telecommunications Facility on approximately 9.51 acres at approximately
                351 East Steep Mountain Drive. Known as Application 2025-0275-USE, staff contact:
                Todd Draper, todd.draper@draperutah.gov, (801) 576-6335.

Planning Manager, Todd Draper, presented the staff report and indicated that the request was to
amend the T-Mobile Conditional Use Permit to accommodate planned upgrades to the existing pole
and tower. The vicinity, aerial, land use, and zoning maps were displayed. The subject property is a
City Park and is designated Open Space and Parks zoned Open Space (“OS”). The tower is directly
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
December 18, 2025
Page 3

adjacent to the basketball court, and the associated equipment is located in a building that was
designed to match the restrooms.

The site plan, elevations, and photographs were reviewed. The existing antenna enclosure will be
removed, and the pole will be extended to install a new array, increasing the total height by two feet
from 40 feet to 42 feet. The antennas will be painted to match the pole color, which Mr. Draper
reported is an allowable method of concealing the equipment. No changes were proposed to the
building's exterior or other areas of the site.

In response to a question raised by Commissioner Nixon, Mr. Draper reported that the pole will be
narrower than the existing lights. Ms. Jastremsky stated that for stealth design, the staff requires the
antennas to be installed flush with the pole.

The applicant, Jacob Rynes, was present to answer questions.

In response to a question from Commissioner Fidler, it was confirmed that T-Mobile leases the
property from the City.

Chair Adams opened the public hearing. There were no comments. The public hearing was closed.

Motion: Commissioner Fowler moved to APPROVE the Conditional Use Permit amendments,
as requested by Declan Murphy, representing Coal Creek Consulting and T-Mobile for the
proposed T-Mobile Wireless Telecommunications Facility, Application 20250275-USE, based
on the following Findings for Approval as listed in the staff report dated December 8, 2025.

Findings for Approval:

       1.      The proposed use is in harmony and compliance with the objectives and
               requirements of the City's General Plan.

       2.      Reasonable conditions have been imposed that substantially mitigate the
               reasonably anticipated detrimental effects of the proposed use.

       3.      The proposed height of the installation is compatible with the height and mass of
               existing buildings and utility structures.

       4.      The antenna location in relation to existing vegetation, topography, and buildings
               provides adequate visual screening.

       5.      The specific property is suitable for the proposed use.

       6.      There are no identified health, safety, or welfare impacts of the proposal for
               either the city, the area, or persons owning or leasing property in the area.

Second: Commissioner Nixon seconded the motion.
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
December 18, 2025
Page 4

Vote on Motion: 5-to-0 in favor.

         Commissioner Yes           No   Abstained    Not Participating     Absent
         Chair Adams                                          X
         Fowler            X
         Squire            X
         Nixon             X
         Shirey                                                                   X
         Ogden                                                                    X
         Fidler, Alternate X
         Green, Alternate  X


2.     Other Business.
       Coordination between City Staff and the Planning Commission (as needed).

Ms. Jastremsky reported that Planning Commissioners with outstanding training requirements had
received emails with links to training videos, and they should email Mr. Draper when they have
completed the training. Mr. Draper added that one Commissioner needed to complete a small amount
of additional training, but all others in attendance had satisfied the requirements.

Ms. Jastremsky reported that the City Council approved the Banger Crossroads and Openshaw Zoning
and Land Use Map Amendments. Zoning will not take effect until May 7, 2026, and the applicant
must apply for a Development Agreement before December 29, 2025.

Mr. Draper mentioned that the geotechnical ordinance text amendment and related geotech standards
were also approved at the last City Council Meeting.

3.     Adjournment.

Motion: Commissioner Squire moved to ADJOURN.

The meeting adjourned at 6:48 PM.
