MEMO
To: Planning Commission
From: Maryann Pickering, AICP
Date: 2026-03-12
Re: Public Hearing: Juan Diego Text Amendment Request (Legislative Item)


Comments:


This application is a request for approval of a Zoning Text Amendment to Table 9-10-090
in the DCMC. The purpose of the request is to allow private schools as a conditional use
in all residential zones. The application has been submitted by a representative of the
Skaggs Catholic Center, but is intended to apply to any private school in any residential
zone.


Findings for approval:
  1. The proposed amendment is consistent with goals, objectives and policies of the
     City's General Plan;
  2. The proposed amendment is appropriate given the context of the request and there
     is sufficient justification for a modification to the development codes;
  3. The proposed amendment will not create a conflict with any other section or part of
     the development codes or the General Plan;
  4. The potential effects of the proposed amendment have been evaluated and are
     determined not to be detrimental to public health, safety, or welfare and represents
     an overall community benefit; and
  5. The proposed text amendment implements best current, professional practices of
     urban planning, design, and engineering practices.

Findings for denial:
  1. The proposed amendment is not consistent with goals, objectives and policies of
     the City's General Plan;
  2. The proposed amendment is not appropriate given the context of the request and
     there is not sufficient justification for a modification to the development codes;
  3. The proposed amendment could create a conflict with another section or part of the
     development codes or the General Plan;
  4. The potential effects of the proposed amendment have been determined to be
     detrimental to public health, safety, or welfare or do not represent an overall
     community benefit; and
  5. The proposed text amendment is not consistent with best current, professional
    practices of urban planning, design, and engineering practices.




ATTACHMENTS:

03-12-2026 JD TA PC Report Combined.pdf
