MEMO
To: Planning Commission
From: Paul Geilman
Date: 2026-06-25
Re: Public Hearing: Rivian-Draper Site Plan and Deviation Requests (Administrative Items)


Comments:

This application is a request for approval of a Site Plan and a Deviation from required
cross access for approximately 6.16 acres located on the east side of Lone Peak Parkway,
at approximately 11601 S. Lone Peak Pkwy. The property is currently zoned CSD-KMAC
(Karl Malone Auto Center Commercial Special District). The applicant is requesting that
the Site Plan and a Deviation from required cross access be approved to allow for the
development of the currently vacant site as an automobile dealership.

Deviation Request
Findings for Approval:
  1. Requiring cross access to properties to the east would result in the slope of the
     cross-access drive exceeding twelve percent (12%).
  2. Requiring cross access to property located the south would create a hazard to
     health, safety, or welfare by linking two incompatible uses.

Findings for Denial:
  1. Cross access to properties to the east could be accomplished without the slope of
     the cross-access drive exceeding twelve percent (12%); or
  2. Requiring the cross access to be provided to the property located to the south
     would not create a hazard to health, safety, or welfare by linking the two uses.

Site Plan
Findings for Approval:
   1. The proposal represents development of the entire site at one time.
   2. With the imposed conditions, the site plan conforms to applicable standards set
      forth in Title 9 of the DCMC, including but not limited to, building heights, setbacks,
      access points, parking, landscaping, and building materials.
   3. The proposed development plans meet the intent, goals, and objectives of the
      general plan and the purpose of the zone district in which the site is located.
   4. The public facilities and services in the area are adequate to support the subject
      development, as required by engineering standards and specifications.
   5. The proposed development plans comply with the engineering standards found in
      Titles 7, 8, 11, 12, 16, and 18 of the DCMC, including traffic, storm water drainage,
     and utilities concerns.
Findings for Denial:
  1. The site plan does not conform to one or more of the applicable standards set forth
     in Title 9 of the DCMC, including but not limited to, building heights, setbacks, access
     points, parking, landscaping, and building materials.
  2. The proposed development plans do not meet the intent, goals, and objectives of
     the general plan and the purpose of the zone district in which the site is located.
  3. The public facilities and services in the area are noy adequate to support the subject
     development, as required by engineering standards and specifications.
  4. The proposed development plans do not comply with all engineering standards
     found in Titles 7, 8, 11, 12, 16, and 18 of the DCMC, including traffic, storm water
     drainage, and utilities concerns.




ATTACHMENTS:

Rivian-Draper SP Staff Report - final.pdf
