MEMO
To: City Council
From: Maryann D. Pickering, AICP
Date: 2026-02-03
Re: Public Hearing: Ordinances #1699 and #1700


Comments:


This application is a request for approval of a Land Use Map Amendment for
approximately 0.85 acres and Zoning Map Amendments for approximately 1.33 acres
located on the north side of 13800 South at approximately 693 and 703 E. 13800 South
and on the east side of Shadow Mountain Lane at approximately 13777 S. Shadow
Mountain Lane. The properties are currently in the Residential Low/Medium Density and
Residential Medium Density land use designations and are zoned either RA1 or RA2.



The Planning Commission forwarded a unanimous positive recommendation on both
items at their January 8, 2026 meeting.

Land Use Amendment

Findings for Approval:

  1. The proposed land use map amendment is consistent with goals, objectives, and
     policies of the city's general plan.
  2. The proposed land use map amendment is harmonious with the overall character
     of existing development in the vicinity of the subject property.
  3. The proposed land use map amendment will not adversely affect adjacent property.
  4. There are adequate facilities and services intended to serve the subject property,
     including, but not limited to, roadways, parks and recreation facilities, police and fire
     protection, schools, stormwater drainage systems, water supplies, and wastewater
     and refuse collection.
  5. The proposed land use map amendment complies with DCMC Section 9-2-020(F).
  6. The legislative body may adopt any amendment to the general plan land use map
     that the legislative body considers appropriate

Findings for Denial:
  1. The proposed land use map amendment is not consistent with goals, objectives,
     and policies of the city's general plan.
  2. The proposed land use map amendment is not harmonious with the overall
     character of existing development in the vicinity of the subject property.
  3. The proposed land use map amendment will adversely affect adjacent property.
  4. The legislative body may reject any amendment to the general plan land use map
     that the legislative body considers appropriate.

Zoning Map Amendment
Findings for Approval:
  1. The proposed zoning map amendment is consistent with goals, objectives, and
     policies of the city's general plan.
  2. The proposed zoning map amendment is harmonious with the overall character of
     existing development in the vicinity of the subject property.
  3. The proposed zoning map amendment is consistent with the standards of any
     applicable overlay zone.
  4. The proposed zoning map amendment will not adversely affect adjacent property.
  5. There are adequate facilities and services intended to serve the subject property,
     including, but not limited to, roadways, parks and recreation facilities, police and fire
     protection, schools, stormwater drainage systems, water supplies, and wastewater
     and refuse collection.

Findings for Denial:
  1. The proposed zoning map amendment is not consistent with goals, objectives, and
     policies of the city's general plan.
  2. The proposed zoning map amendment is not harmonious with the overall character
     of existing development in the vicinity of the subject property.
  3. The proposed zoning map amendment will adversely affect adjacent property.


ATTACHMENTS:

Ordinance 1699 (BGP LUMA).pdf
ATTACHMENTS:

Ordinance 1700 (BGP ZMA).pdf
ATTACHMENTS:

01-08-2026 PC Staff Report (Bell Peterson Gustin).pdf
