MEMO
To: City Council
From: Nick Whittaker, MCMP
Date: 2026-03-24
Re: Public Hearing: Ordinance #1709, Ordinance #1710 and Ordinance #1711


Comments:

These applications are requests for approval of a Land Use Map Amendment, a Zoning
Map Amendment and a Development Agreement,. The purpose of the Land Use Map
Amendment is to change the current land use designation from Residential Medium
Density to Residential High Density. The purpose of the Zoning Map Amendment is to
change the current zoning designation from RA2 to RM2. The purpose of the
Development agreement is to allow the applicant to develop 15 lots for detached single-
family dwelling-units. The subject property is approximately 2.03 acres and located on the
north side of 12200 S. at approximately 791 E. 12200 S.

The Planning Commission reviewed this item at their March 12, 2026 meeting and
forwarded a negative recommendation with a 4-1 vote. The Motion for a negative
recommendation cited the following:
  1. That the proposed park is not a permanent park and that the agreement needs to
     provide assurance that it will be.
  2. That the driveway lengths on lots 10, 11 and 15 are only 15 feet in length and
     encroaches 5 feet into the public right of way to meet the required 20 feet in length.
  3. That the number of lots would be better at 12.
  4. That the Development Agreement doesn’t meet criterion #4 found in DCMC 9-5-
     200(C).

Land Use Map Amendment

Findings for Approval:
  1. The proposed land use map amendment is consistent with goals, objectives, and
     policies of the city's general plan.
  2. The proposed land use map amendment is harmonious with the overall character
     of existing development in the vicinity of the subject property.
  3. The proposed land use map amendment will not adversely affect adjacent property.
  4. There are adequate facilities and services intended to serve the subject property,
     including, but not limited to, roadways, parks and recreation facilities, police and fire
     protection, schools, stormwater drainage systems, water supplies, and wastewater
     and refuse collection.
  5. The proposed land use map amendment complies with DCMC Section 9-2-020(F).
  6. The legislative body may adopt any amendment to the general plan land use map
     that the legislative body considers appropriate.

Findings for Denial:
  1. The proposed land use map amendment is not consistent with goals, objectives,
     and policies of the city's general plan.
  2. The proposed land use map amendment is not harmonious with the overall
     character of existing development in the vicinity of the subject property.
  3. The proposed land use map amendment will adversely affect adjacent property.
  4. There are not adequate facilities and services intended to serve the subject
     property, including, but not limited to, roadways, parks and recreation facilities,
     police and fire protection, schools, stormwater drainage systems, water supplies,
     and wastewater and refuse collection.
  5. The proposed land use map amendment does not comply with DCMC Section 9-2-
     020(F).
  6. The legislative body may reject any amendment to the general plan land use map
     that the legislative body considers appropriate.

Zoning Map Amendment

Findings for Approval:
  1. The proposed zoning map amendment is consistent with goals, objectives, and
     policies of the city's general plan.
  2. The proposed zoning map amendment is compatible with the subject properties
     existing Land Use Designation and harmonious with the overall character of existing
     development in the vicinity of the subject property.
  3. The proposed zoning map amendment will not adversely affect adjacent property.
  4. There are adequate facilities and services intended to serve the subject property,
     including, but not limited to, roadways, parks and recreation facilities, police and fire
     protection, schools, stormwater drainage systems, water supplies, and wastewater
     and refuse collection.

Findings for Denial:
  1. The proposed zoning map amendment is not consistent with goals, objectives, and
     policies of the city's general plan.
  2. The proposed zoning map amendment is not compatible with the subject properties
     existing Land Use Designation and is not harmonious with the overall character of
     existing development in the vicinity of the subject property.
  3. The proposed zoning map amendment will adversely affect adjacent property.
  4. There are not adequate facilities and services intended to serve the subject
     property, including, but not limited to, roadways, parks and recreation facilities,
     police and fire protection, schools, stormwater drainage systems, water supplies,
     and wastewater and refuse collection.

Development Agreement

Findings for Approval:
  1. The development agreement complies with DCMC Section 9-5-200(C) and (D) and
     provides for a lower density range on the property that best meets the interests of
     the community and applicant.

Findings for Denial:

  1. The development agreement does not provide for a density range on the property
     that best meets the interests of the community and applicant.


ATTACHMENTS:

Ordinance 1709 Fratto Farms LUMA.pdf
ATTACHMENTS:

Ordinance 1710 Fratto Farms ZMA.pdf
ATTACHMENTS:

Ordinance 1711 Fratto Farms DA.pdf
ATTACHMENTS:

Fratto farms DA zma Luma report.pdf
