MEMO
To: Planning Commission
From: Maryann D. Pickering, AICP
Date: 2026-06-11
Re: Public Hearing: Skaggs Catholic Center Farm to Table Site Plan and Conditional Use
Permit Requests (Administrative Items)


Comments:


This application is a request for approval of a Site Plan and Conditional Use Permit for
approximately 0.91 acres located on the north side of Kimballs Lane at approximately 235
E. Kimballs Lane. The property is currently zoned R3 (Residential). The applicant is
requesting that a Site Plan and Conditional Use be approved to allow for the development
of the currently vacant site as a garden/farm that is ancillary to the schools that are part
of the Skaggs Catholic Center.



The property was previously developed with a single-family residence in the 1980’s. The
property was bought by the Skaggs Catholic Center in 2021 and the home was
demolished the following year.



The applicant submitted a text amendment earlier this year to allow private schools as a
conditional use in all residential zones. The City Council ultimately decided to allowed
ancillary sites for private schools as a conditional use in the R3 zoning district.


Conditional Use Permit
Findings for Approval:
  1. The is harmony and compliance of the proposed use with the objectives and
     requirements of the city's general plan and this title;
  2. The suitability of the specific property is appropriate for the proposed use;
  3. The proposed use or facility will not be injurious to potential or existing
     development in the vicinity;
  4. The aesthetic impact of the proposed facility or use will not have an impact on the
     surrounding area;
  5. There are safeguards proposed or provided to ensure adequate utilities,
     transportation access, drainage, parking, loading space, lighting, screening,
     landscaping, open space, fire protection, and pedestrian and vehicular circulation;
  6. There are conditions of approval provided to prevent noxious or offensive emissions
     such as noise, glare, dust, pollutants and odor from the proposed facility or use; and
  7. The impact of the proposed facility or use on the health, safety, and welfare of the
     city, the area, and persons owning or leasing property in the area will be addressed
     with conditions of approval.

Findings for Denial:
  1. There is no harmony and compliance of the proposed use with the objectives and
     requirements of the city's general plan and this title;
  2. There is no suitability of the specific property for the proposed use;
  3. The proposed use or facility may be injurious to potential or existing development in
     the vicinity;
  4. There are no economic impacts of the proposed facility or use on the surrounding
     area;
  5. There are aesthetic impacts of the proposed facility or use on the surrounding area;
  6. There are impacts of the proposed facility or use on the health, safety, and welfare
     of the city, the area, and persons owning or leasing property in the area.

Site Plan
Findings for Approval:
  1. The proposal represents development of the entire site at one time.
  2. With the imposed conditions, and approval of a parking deviation, the site plan
      conforms to applicable standards set forth in Title 9 of the DCMC, including but not
      limited to, building heights, setbacks, access points, parking, landscaping, and
      building materials.
  3. The proposed development plans meet the intent, goals, and objectives of the
      general plan and the purpose of the zone district in which the site is located.
  4. The public facilities and services in the area are adequate to support the subject
      development, as required by engineering standards and specifications.
  5. The proposed development plans comply with the engineering standards found in
      Titles 7, 8, 11, 12, 16, and 18 of the DCMC, including traffic, storm water drainage,
      and utilities concerns.

Findings for Denial:
  1. The site plan does not conform to one or more applicable standards set forth in
     Title 9 of the DCMC, including but not limited to, building heights, setbacks, access
     points, parking, landscaping, or building materials.
  2. The proposed development plans do not meet the intent, goals, and objectives of
     the general plan or the purpose of the zone district in which the site is located.
  3. The public facilities and services in the area are not adequate to support the subject
     development, as required by engineering standards and specifications.
  4. The proposed development plans do not comply with all engineering standards
     found in Titles 7, 8, 11, 12, 16, and 18 of the DCMC, including traffic, storm water
     drainage, or utility concerns.


ATTACHMENTS:

06-11-2026 PC Report (Skaggs).pdf
