                                 Development Review Committee
                                     1020 East Pioneer Road
                                       Draper, UT 84020
                                        February 2, 2026

To:               Draper City Planning Commission
                  Business Date: February 12, 2026

From:             Development Review Committee

Prepared By: Nick Whittaker, MCMP, Planner II
             Planning Division
             Community Development Department
             801-576-6522, Nick.Whittaker@draperutah.gov

Re:      Devan Fence – Conditional Use Permit Request
         Application No.: 2025-0256-USE
         Applicant:        Devan Garcia
         Project Location: 373 E. Draper Downs Dr.
         Current Zoning: R3 (Single-family residential) Zone
         Acreage:          0.40 Acres (Approximately 17,424 ft2)
         Request:          Request for approval of a Conditional Use Permit in the R3 zone
                           to allow for a fence that is taller than four feet (4’) in the front
                           yard area.



BACKGROUND AND SUMMARY

This application is a request for approval of a Conditional Use Permit for approximately
0.40 acres located on the north side of Draper Downs Dr., at approximately 373 E. Draper
Downs Dr. (Exhibit B & C). The property is currently zoned R3. The applicant is requesting
that a Conditional Use Permit be approved to allow for a six-foot (6’) fence to be
constructed in front of the front yard plane on the subject property.

The property is Lot number 104 of the Draper Downs Subdivision. The single-family dwelling
on the lot was built in 2002. The property is an interior lot that has a six-foot (6’) vinyl fence
that spans the rear and side yards and terminates at the front yard plane.



ANALYSIS



Devan Fence                                                         App. # 2025-0256-USE
Conditional Use Permit Request                  1
General Plan and Zoning.

 Table 1                    General Plan and Zoning Designations                    Exhibit
 Existing Land Use          Residential Medium Density                              Exhibit D
 Current Zoning             R3                                                      Exhibit E
 Adjacent Zoning
    East                    R3
    West                    R3
    North                   R3
    South                   R3

The Residential Medium Density land use designation is characterized as follows:




According to Draper City Municipal Code (DCMC) Section 9-8-020 the purpose of the R3
zone is to “permit medium density residential development without special mitigation
requirements. This zone is intended to provide incentives to foster residential development
with little impact on its surroundings and on municipal services, and to generally preserve



Devan Fence                                                        App. # 2025-0256-USE
Conditional Use Permit Request                   2
the semirural character called for in the density element of the general plan. ”

Fencing. The applicant is requesting to replace the existing vinyl fence on the east side of
the property. The applicant is proposing to construct a brick fence that is six-feet (6’) in
height, and extend the fence four-feet (4’) in front of the front yard plane (Exhibit F). The
applicant indicates that their request would provide additional security following the
installation of a pool by blocking easy visibility of the pool to prevent uninvited guests
accessing the property (Exhibit G).

Table 2   Fencing and Design Requirements
 Standard    DCMC            Proposal                              Notes
             Requirements
 Height
    Front    4’ maximum.     6’.
             Up to
             6’ maximum
             with
             Conditional
             Use Permit.

Subsection 9-27-080(A) in the DCMC states:

         A. Height: A fence, wall, or other visual obstruction, excluding trees, shall comply with
            the following:

                  1. When located within the required front yard a fence, wall, or other visual
                     obstruction, not including trees shall not exceed four feet (4') in height
                     unless a greater height is allowed by a conditional use permit or as
                     otherwise permitted in this title.

                  2. When located behind the front wall plane a fence, wall, or other visual
                     obstruction, not including trees, shall not exceed six fee (6') in height
                     unless a greater height is allowed by a conditional use permit or as
                     otherwise permitted in this title.


Subsection 9-27-080(E) in the DCMC states:

         E. Other Visual Obstructions: Fences, walls, and other visual obstructions, not
         including trees, between four feet (4’) and ten feet (10') in height shall be allowed
         only behind the front wall plane, and shall require a conditional use permit. Any
         such visual obstruction over four feet (4’) in height must meet the setback
         requirements for accessory buildings unless otherwise permitted by a conditional



Devan Fence                                                          App. # 2025-0256-USE
Conditional Use Permit Request                   3
         use permit, except that no wall shall be constructed within a utility easement
         without the prior written permission of all affected utility companies. No fences,
         walls, or other visual obstructions over ten feet (10') in height are allowed, excluding
         trees.


Potential impacts associated with front yard fencing that exceeds four feet (4’) in height are
typically related to potential safety hazards that could be created for pedestrians due to the
visual obstruction of vehicular traffic. A taller fence may also create some minor aesthetic
impacts in residential neighborhoods. However, staff notes that in this case the proposed
fence only extends four-feet (4’) into the front yard area and does not create any potential
safety hazards for pedestrians. Staff believes that potential impacts of a six-foot (6’) tall fence
in the location identified on the applicant’s site plan are minimal. Staff recommends that as
a condition of approval that the fencing be limited to the locations proposed in the submitted
application materials.

Criteria For Approval.
The criteria for review and potential approval of a conditional use permit request is found
in Section 9-5-080(E) of the DCMC. This section depicts the standard of review for such
requests as:

         E. Approval Standards: The standards of this subsection shall apply to the issuance
             of a conditional use permit:
          1. A conditional use permit may be issued for a use to be located within a zone
             where the particular conditional use is allowed by the use regulations of the
             zone.
          2. Reasonable conditions may be imposed as necessary to substantially mitigate
             reasonably anticipated detrimental effects of the proposed use. These
             conditions may include conditions concerning use, construction, character,
             location, landscaping, screening, parking, hours of operation, and other matters
             relating to the purposes and objectives of this section. Such conditions shall be
             expressly set forth in the motion authorizing the conditional use permit.
          3. If the reasonably anticipated detrimental effects of a proposed conditional use
             cannot be substantially mitigated by the imposition of reasonable conditions to
             achieve compliance with applicable standards, the conditional use may be
             denied.
          4. The following factors shall be reviewed and considered in determining whether a
             conditional use permit application should be approved, approved with
             conditions, or denied because reasonable conditions cannot be imposed to
             achieve compliance with applicable standards:
               a. The harmony and compliance of the proposed use with the objectives and
                  requirements of the city's general plan and this title;
               b. The suitability of the specific property for the proposed use;



Devan Fence                                                          App. # 2025-0256-USE
Conditional Use Permit Request                   4
              c. Whether the proposed use or facility may be injurious to potential or existing
                 development in the vicinity;
              d. The economic impact of the proposed facility or use on the surrounding
                 area;
              e. The aesthetic impact of the proposed facility or use on the surrounding area;
              f. The safeguards proposed or provided to ensure adequate utilities,
                 transportation access, drainage, parking, loading space, lighting, screening,
                 landscaping, open space, fire protection, and pedestrian and vehicular
                 circulation;
              g. The safeguards provided or proposed to prevent noxious or offensive
                 emissions such as noise, glare, dust, pollutants and odor from the proposed
                 facility or use; and
              h. The impact of the proposed facility or use on the health, safety, and welfare
                 of the city, the area, and persons owning or leasing property in the area.
          5. The planning commission may request additional information as may be
             reasonably needed to determine whether the requirements of this subsection E
             can be met.


REVIEWS

Planning Division Review. The Draper City Planning Division has completed their review of
the Conditional Use Permit submission. Comments from this division, if any, can be found
in Exhibit A.

Engineering and Public Works Divisions Review. The Draper City Engineering and Public
Works Divisions have completed their reviews of the Conditional Use Permit submission.
Comments from these divisions, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Building Division Review. The Draper City Building Division has completed their review of
the Conditional Use Permit submission. Comments from this division, if any, can be found
in Exhibit A.

Fire Division Review. The Draper City Fire Marshal has completed his review of the
Conditional Use Permit submission. Comments from this division, if any, can be found in
Exhibit A.

Noticing. Notice has been properly issued in the manner outlined in the City and State
Codes.



STAFF RECOMMENDATION




Devan Fence                                                        App. # 2025-0256-USE
Conditional Use Permit Request                  5
Staff recommends that the Planning Commission review the request based on the findings
listed below and the criteria for approval, or denial as listed within the staff report. The
Planning Commission should also hear from the applicant and receive public comment
prior to making a decision.

If the Planning Commission decides to approve the request, staff recommends they include
the following conditions of approval:

    1. That all requirements of the Draper City Engineering, Building and Planning Divisions
       are satisfied throughout the construction of the fence, including permitting.
    2. That the fencing shall not exceed six-feet (6) in height and shall be constructed only
       in the locations indicated on the approved site plan.



MODEL MOTIONS AND FINDINGS

Sample Motion for Approval – I move that we approve the Conditional Use Permit, as
requested by Devan Garcia, Application 2025-0256-USE, based on the following findings for
approval and subject to the conditions listed in the Staff report dated February 2, 2026.

Findings for approval:

         1. The proposal complies with the standards for approval found in DCMC Section 9-
            5-080(E) and potential negative impacts are mitigated through the imposition of
            reasonable conditions.

I move that we approve the Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit, as requested by
Devan Garcia, Application 2025-0256-USE, based on the findings for approval and subject
to the conditions listed in the Staff report dated February 2, 2026 and as modified by the
following additional findings or conditions:

         1. (List any additional findings…)
         2. (List any additional conditions…)

Sample Motion for Denial – I move that we deny the Home Occupation Conditional Use
Permit, as requested by Devan Garcia, Application 2025-0256-USE, based on the following
findings for denial listed in the Staff report dated February 2, 2026.

Findings for denial:

         1. The proposal does not comply with all standards for approval found in DCMC
            Section 9-5-080(E) and potential negative impacts are not able to be sufficiently
            mitigated through the imposition of reasonable conditions.



Devan Fence                                                        App. # 2025-0256-USE
Conditional Use Permit Request                  6
                                     EXHIBIT A
                                DEPARTMENT REVIEWS

REVIEWS ARE NOT MEANT TO BE AN ALL INCLUSIVE LIST OF POSSIBLE COMMENTS OR
CONDITIONS.



Planning Division Review.

       1. No additional comments provided.

Engineering and Public Works Divisions Review.

       1. No additional comments provided.

Building Division Review.

       1. No additional comments provided.

Fire Division Review.

       1. No additional comments provided.
  EXHIBIT B
VICINITY MAP
EXHIBIT C
ARIEL MAP
  EXHIBIT D
LAND USE MAP
 EXHIBIT E
ZONING MAP
EXHIBIT F
SITE PLAN
      EXHIBIT G
APPLICANT STATEMENTS
Overview of Proposed Use



The requested fence would be placed 4 feet in front of the existing home and current
fence. It would replace an existing vinyl fence with a brick fence for improved structure,
safety and aesthetic appeal. This fence is requested to provide additional security
following the installation of a pool.



The requested fence also blocks easy visibility of the pool to prevent the temptation of
uninvited guests accessing the property
