MEMO
To: City Council
From: Todd Taylor
Date: 2026-02-17
Re: Public Hearing: Ordinance #1702


Comments:

This application is a request for approval of a Text Amendment for the purpose of
amending portions of Draper City Municipal Code (DCMC) Titles 2, 3, 6, 8, 9, and 17 to
address recent changes to Utah State Code. Please note that Titles 2, 3, 6, and 8 are not
within the Planning Commission’s purview, but the text amendments have been included
to show all of the changes that are being proposed.

The Planning Commission reviewed this item at their January 22, 2025 meeting and
forwarded a positive recommendation with a vote of 5-0.

Findings for Approval:
  1. The proposed amendment is consistent with goals, objectives and policies of the
     City's General Plan;
  2. The proposed amendment is appropriate given the context of the request and there
     is sufficient justification for a modification to the development codes;
  3. The proposed amendment will not create a conflict with any other section or part of
     the development codes or the General Plan;
  4. The potential effects of the proposed amendment have been evaluated and are
     determined not to be detrimental to public health, safety, or welfare and represents
     an overall community benefit; and
  5. The proposed text amendment implements best current, professional practices of
     urban planning, design, and engineering practices.
  6. The proposed text amendment brings the text of the DCMC into compliance with
     State Code.

Findings for Denial:
  1. The proposed amendment is not consistent with goals, objectives and policies of
     the City's General Plan;
  2. The proposed amendment is not appropriate given the context of the request and
     there is not sufficient justification for a modification to the development codes;
  3. The proposed amendment could create a conflict with another section or part of the
     development codes or the General Plan;
  4. The potential effects of the proposed amendment have been determined to be
     detrimental to public health, safety, or welfare or do not represent an overall
     community benefit; and
  5. The proposed text amendment is not consistent with best current, professional
     practices of urban planning, design, and engineering practices.


ATTACHMENTS:

Ordinance No. 1702.pdf
ATTACHMENTS:

City Initiated Variance and Land Use Appeal Update TA SR.pdf
