MEMO
To: City Council
From: Todd A. Draper, AICP
Date: 2026-04-07
Re: Public Hearing: Ordinance #1717


Comments:

This application is a request for approval of a Development Agreement for approximately
17.88 acres located on the west side of Bangerter Highway, north of 13800 South, and
west of 300 East, at approximately 13782 S. 300 E. The property is currently zoned RA1.
The applicant is requesting that the Development Agreement be approved to allow for
the development of the overall site as a commercial center.

The Planning Commission at their March 26, 2026 meeting forwarded a positive
recommendation to the City Council for the Development Agreement Application
together with the following additional recommendations:

 1. That all noted concerns and changes identified by city staff as outlined in the staff
    report including but not limited to those included with Exhibits A and G of the staff
    report, be addressed and be included in the Development Agreement that is
    approved by the City Council.
 2. Reduce lighting on perimeter to comply with city code (maximum of 0.2 foot
    candles).
 3. Reduce the canopy lighting to illumination levels that have been allowed in the city
    or meet code.
 4. Update the photometric plan to show light readings at every 5 feet per the code.
 5. Install 8-foot tall concrete fencing in all buffer areas adjacent to residential.
 6. Install additional trees along the perimeter buffer abutting residential homes to
    mirror what the plans show along 300 East and at a minimum at amounts which
    complies with code.
 7. Reduce all proposed signage dimensions to be consistent with code.
 8. Remove parking stalls along the buffer area north of the anchor tenant building so
    that there is at least a 10-foot wide landscape buffer area with trees, instead of only
    5 feet of landscaping. Make sure the same is done for the buffer area on the south
    of the anchor tenant building.
 9. Limit maximum building height to 35 feet.
10. Resolve all boundary line overlaps before building permits are issued.

The vote was 4-1 in favor of a positive recommendation to the City Council.
The Development Agreement attached as an exhibit to the Ordinance in the agenda
packet has been revised from the one included with the staff report to the Planning
Commission. Staff has reviewed the updated Development Agreement and forwarded
additional comments to the Applicant. The majority of the comments are general clean
up and clarifications. An updated version of the Development Agreement and Staff
analysis of any changes will be provided to the Council early next week, in addition to the
presentation at the City Council meeting.

Staff met with the Applicant to review the remaining comments on the Development
Agreement. Changes made to the updated Development Agreement from the version
reviewed by the Planning Commission, or that have been discussed and and should be in
the version presented at the meeting, are as follows:

  1. Photometric Plan:
       1. The photometric plan will be updated to a lighting plan and the Development
          Agreement will list out specific requested exceptions from code. These
          exceptions include parking lot lighting pole height, the number of pole lights
          allowed, and the fuel canopy foot candle level of 57. The Development
          Agreement will state that all other lighting will comply with code. This would
          include complying with the maximum of 0.2 foot candles at property lines
          adjacent to residential uses.
  2. Landscape Buffers:
       1. The Updated Development Agreement shows expanded buffer area widths
          north and south of the anchor tenant and additional trees added to all
          landscape buffer areas as requested by the Planning Commission. It does not
          show fence height of 8-feet in all landscape buffer areas, as requested by the
          Planning Commission. Some sections are 8-feet and some are 6-feet.
  3. Signs:
       1. The proposed tower sign has been reduced in size from 25-feet to 20-feet and
          now complies with code for tower sign height. The proposed monument signs
          are still in excess of the 6-foot height limit in code. The Planning Commission
          requested they be reduced to comply with code as well.
  4. The Development Agreement limits all buildings to a maximum height of 35-feet.
  5. Exhibits
       1. (K) 300 East Landscape Screening- The language in the Development
          Agreement will be clarified to reflect the buffer shown in the exhibit. The
          landscape screening area will be 17-feet wide, with 10-feet of landscaping on
          the east side of the proposed 6-foot fence and berm adjacent to 300 East. The
          west side of the landscaping area adjacent to the anchor tenant will include 7-
          feet of landscaping. The Applicant is still determining if a retaining wall is
          required between the drive aisle and the landscaping screening area. If no
          retaining wall is needed, they will provide 3-feet of additional landscaping west
          of the 6-foot wall and berm. If a retaining wall is needed that wall will take up
          3-feet of space.

If the City Council desires to approve the ordinance and the Development Agreement and
desires additional changes to be made to the Development Agreement as presented at
the meeting. Staff suggests that the City Council in their motion for approval, specify the
changes to be made and the intent of each change and delegate authority to the City
Manager and City Attorney to make the changes to the final Development Agreement as
per the express intent of the City Council before presenting the Development Agreement
to the Mayor for his final signature of acceptance by the City. Staff also suggests that as
part of the motion that additional direction be given that any additional substantive
changes to the agreement be processed separately as amendments to the Development
Agreement.

Finding for Approval:

  1. If the identified changes are made to the agreement, the Development Agreement
     will comply with DCMC Sections 9-5-200(C) and (D).

Finding for Denial

  1. The Development Agreement does not comply with DCMC Sections 9-5-200(C) or
     (D).


ATTACHMENTS:

ORDINANCE NO 1717 FINAL BC.pdf
ATTACHMENTS:

Bangerter Crossroads MDA 4.6.2026.pdf
ATTACHMENTS:

2026-04-06 SMC232 Exhibits Combined Set 8.5x11_rv3.pdf
ATTACHMENTS:

Bangerter Crossroads DA - Final staff report.pdf
