MEMO
To: City Council
From: Todd A. Draper, AICP
Date: 2026-04-07
Re: Public Hearing: Ordinance #1716


Comments:

This application is a request for approval of a Development Agreement for approximately
1.44 acres located at the northeast corner of 13800 South and the Bangerter Highway, at
approximately 207 E. 13800 S. The subject properties are currently zoned either RA1 or
OR. The City Council has approved a zone change for the properties to the CR zone
subject to the passage of a Development Agreement. The applicant is requesting that the
Development Agreement be approved to allow for the development of the overall site as
a part of a commercial center.

The Planning Commission at their March 26, 2026 meeting forwarded a positive
recommendation to the City Council for the Development Agreement Application
together with the following additional recommendations:

  1. That all noted concerns and changes identified by city staff as outlined in the staff
     report be addressed and be included in the Development Agreement that is
     approved by the City Council.
  2. That the perimeter landscaping be kept at a minimum of 10 feet.

The vote was 4-1 in favor of a positive recommendation to the City Council.



The Development Agreement attached as an exhibit to the Ordinance presented to the
City Council has been revised from the one included with the staff report to the Planning
Commission. The following is a general list of the changes by section in the Development
Agreement that were made, including staff analysis of those changes.

Section 2.5: Changed to note that access to the property will be per substantially similar
to the proposed site plan or alternative site plan. All mention of required cross-access
between the adjacent property has been removed. Language entitling the Master
Developer to a temporary access connection to 13800 South was also removed. Staff
believes that at a minimum the following additional statement should be added to
section 2.5 of the agreement; "Reciprocal vehicular and pedestrian cross-access between
the Property and adjacent properties shall be provided." Staff would recommend also
adding back to this section of the agreement that the Master Developer be entitled to
install a temporary access as shown on the Alternative Concept Site Plan should the other
access shown on the plan across neighboring property not be fully constructed and
legally available for use by the Property. Construction of the Temporary Access should be
required to be constructed in compliance with City standards and the Master Developer
would need to agree to vacate the Temporary Access and restore public improvements in
the right-of-way at the Master Developer's cost once the other access to 13800 South
shown on the Concept Site Plan or Alternative Concept Site Plan was fully constructed and
legally available for use by the Property.

Section 2.6: Minor technical changes for clarification between use of the Concept Site Plan
or use of an Alternative Concept Site Plan for development.

Section 3.1: Additional clarification that the Master Developer can also make
modifications to the Alternative Concept Site Plan during development. Staff sees no
issues with this change.

Section 7.1: Staff requested change was made to eliminate a conflict with other provisions
in the agreement by clarifying that the Developer will be responsible for installation of
public improvements in the event that a temporary access to the property is constructed.

Exhibit A: Inclusion of the meets and bounds descriptions for the seven (7) parcels that
comprise the overall property. These can be checked for accuracy before the final
agreement is signed (if approved by the City Council).

Exhibit D: Made staff requested technical change to the table of use restrictions.



The following were identified areas of concern by Staff in the staff report to the Planning
Commission, or by the Planning Commission, but were not addressed in the revised
Development Agreement. Inclusion or exclusion of these recommended changes in a
final version of the Development Agreement, if approved, would be per the purview of
the City Council.

  1. More specific provisions regarding the conditions under which the Temporary
     Access can be installed.
  2. Compliance with city standards for the construction of the Temporary Access.
  3. Time limits for the timely removal of a Temporary Access once the other access
     across the neighboring property is fully constructed and legally available for use by
     the Property.
  4. The Planning Commission's request for removal of an exception to the City's Vested
     and Future Laws pertaining to a reduction in perimeter landscaping width (Section
     2.9.3).

If the City Council desires to approve the ordinance and the Development agreement and
desires additional changes to be made to the Development Agreement as presented.
Staff suggests that the City Council in their motion for approval, specify the changes to be
made and the intent of each change and delegate authority to the City Manager and City
Attorney to make the changes to the final Development Agreement as per the express
intent of the City Council before presenting the Development Agreement to the Mayor for
his final signature of acceptance by the City. Staff also suggests that as part of the motion
that additional direction be given that any additional substantive changes to the
agreement be processed separately as amendments to the Development Agreement.



Finding for Approval:
  1. If the identified changes are made to the agreement, the Development Agreement
     will comply with DCMC Sections 9-5-200(C) and (D).

Finding for Denial
  1. The Development Agreement does not comply with DCMC Sections 9-5-200(C) or
     (D).


ATTACHMENTS:

ORDINANCE NO 1716 FINAL OC.pdf
ATTACHMENTS:

Openshaw Corner DA- Clean Copy- Revised.pdf
ATTACHMENTS:

Openshaw Corner DA - Staff Report - Final.pdf
