                                 Development Review Committee
                                      1020 East Pioneer Road
                                        Draper, Utah 84020


                                          STAFF REPORT
                                         December 30, 2025



To:              Draper City Planning Commission
                 Business Date: January 8, 2026

From:            Development Review Committee

Prepared By: Maryann Pickering, AICP, Planner III
             Planning Division
             Community Development Department
             801-576-6391, maryann.pickering@draperutah.gov

Re:     England Salon – Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit Request
        Application No.: 2025-0418-USE
        Applicant:        Kayleen England, property owner
        Project Location: 13850 S. 1300 East
        Current Zoning: RA2 (Residential Agricultural) Zone
        Acreage:          1.34 acres (approximately 58,370 sq. ft.)
        Request:          Request for approval of a Conditional Use Permit to operate a
                          Home Occupation that provides personal care services.



BACKGROUND AND SUMMARY
This application is a request for approval of a Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit for
approximately 1.34 acres located on the west side of 1300 East, at approximately 13850 S.
1300 East (Exhibits B and C). The property is currently zoned RA2. The applicant is
requesting that a Conditional Use Permit be approved to allow for a Home Occupation to
operate a personal care service esthetics salon for hair and skin services.

The property is developed with a single-family home that was completed in 2022. A
detached accessory dwelling unit (ADU) permit and building permit were issued in 2024.
The proposed salon will be located within the permitted detached ADU building.



England Salon                                                      App. # 2025-0418-USE
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit        1
ANALYSIS

General Plan and Zoning.
 Table 1              General Plan and Zoning Designations                      Exhibit
 Existing Land Use    Residential Low/Medium Density                            Exhibit E
 Current Zoning       RA2                                                       Exhibit F
 Proposed Use         Personal Care Service
 Adjacent Zoning
                      RA1 (Residential Agricultural) and RM2 (Multiple
    East
                      Family Residential)
    West              RA2
    North             RA2
    South             RA2

The Residential Low/Medium Density land use designation is characterized as follows:




England Salon                                                      App. # 2025-0418-USE
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit    2
According to the Draper City Municipal Code (DCMC) Section 9-8-020(B)(3), the purpose of
the RA2 zone is to “foster low density development with little impact on its surroundings and
municipal services; to generally preserve the character of the City’s semi-rural areas; and to
promote and preserve conditions favorable to large-lot family life, including the keeping of
limited numbers of animals and fowl.”

Home Occupation. The DCMC Section 9-34-040 outlines development standards applicable to
all home occupations. Those criteria, along with information specific to the subject request, are
as follows:

        A. Ownership: The home occupation shall be owned and operated by a person who
           resides in the dwelling where the home occupation is located. Such person shall be
           the primary provider of the labor, work, or service provided in the home occupation.

                 •   The applicant has indicated that they represent the owner and operator
                     of the proposed salon and are also reside at the subject property.

        B. Business License: A business license for the home occupation shall be obtained from
           and continually maintained with the city pursuant to title 6, chapter 11 of this code.

                 •   The applicant has submitted an application for a business license which is
                     pending the approval of this Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit
                     request.

        C. Employees: Members of the family of the owner who reside in the dwelling may be
           employed in the home occupation. Nonfamily or nonresident employees shall be
           limited to one person.

                 •   The applicant has indicated that they are the only employee of the
                     business and that there is no one else employed in the home occupation.

        D. Inspection: All facilities shall comply with fire, building, plumbing, electrical and all
           other city, county, state and federal codes. Inspections during reasonable hours by
           city officials may occur as necessary to assure compliance with regulations.

                 •   The applicant has indicated that they will comply with applicable
                     inspections.

        E. Inventory: No stock in trade, inventory, or other merchandise to exceed two hundred
           fifty (250) square feet shall be kept on the premises. No outside storage is allowed.




England Salon                                                               App. # 2025-0418-USE
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit         3
                 •   The applicant has indicated that they do not have any inventory, stock or
                     merchandise exceeding two hundred fifty (250) square feet on the
                     premises and do not have any outside storage.

        F. Modification Of Structures Or Yards: There shall be no visible evidence from the
           exterior of a dwelling that it is being used for any other purpose than that of a
           dwelling. No activities shall be carried on outside the dwelling in the yard for the
           benefit of or incidental to the home occupation. No front yard area shall be altered
           to provide parking required for a home occupation.

                 •   No modifications of the structure or yard have been or will be made for
                     the business (Exhibit H).
                 •   Customers will park their vehicles on the existing driveway for the
                     property. A condition of approval is included that the required fire
                     turnaround is not blocked by customers (Exhibits F and H).

        G. Nuisance: Tools, items, equipment, or activities conducted within the dwelling which
           is offensive or noxious by reason of the emission of odor, smoke, gas, vibration,
           magnetic interference, or noise shall be prohibited.

                 •   The applicant has indicated that the business will not create any of the
                     prohibited nuisances listed in ordinance.

        H. Secondary Use: The home occupation shall be clearly incidental and secondary to the
           primary use of the dwelling for residential purposes. The home occupation shall not
           disrupt the normal residential character of the neighborhood in which the residence
           is located. Not more than twenty five percent (25%) of the dwelling unit shall be used
           for the home occupation.

                 •   The space used for the home occupation, including the inventory storage
                     space, is approximately 273 square feet which is approximately 10% of
                     the accessory dwelling unit square footage (Exhibit H).

        I.   Signs: All signage in a residential area must comply with chapter 26, "Signs", of this
             title.

                 •   There are no signs being used or proposed.

        J.   Traffic, Parking, And Access: No home occupation use shall generate pedestrian,
             parking, or vehicular traffic in excess of that customarily associated with the zone in
             which the use is located. All parking shall be provided and maintained on site with
             adequate provision for drop off traffic.




England Salon                                                              App. # 2025-0418-USE
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit         4
                 •   The applicant indicates that one (1) off street parking stall is provided for
                     the use of customers (Exhibit H).

        K. Vehicles: Other than the business owner's personal transportation, there shall be no
           vehicles or equipment on the property associated with the home occupation which
           would not normally be found at a residence. No signage for the home occupation
           shall be allowed on vehicles.

                 •   The applicant has indicated that there are no vehicles or equipment
                     associated with the home occupation.

        L. Yards: Yards surrounding the dwelling and accessory buildings shall not be used for
           any activities or storage of any materials associated with the home occupation.

                 •   The applicant has indicated that the yard will not be used for any
                     business activities nor storage.

        M. Customers: No customers allowed. Children accessing a limited daycare or limited
           preschool facility shall not be considered customers.

                 •   The applicant is requesting a deviation from this standard in order to
                     allow customers to come to the home to receive services (Exhibit H).

        N. Utility Demand: The home occupation shall not cause a demand for public utilities in
           excess of that necessarily and customarily provided for residential uses.

                 •   The applicant has indicated that the home occupation will not cause an
                     excessive demand for public utilities above that necessarily and
                     customarily provided for residential uses.

        O. Main Structure: The home occupations shall be conducted, located, and contained
           within the primary structure on the property.

                 •   The home occupation is conducted entirely inside of a permitted
                     accessory dwelling unit on the property (Exhibit H).

        P. Single-Family And Multiple-Family Dwellings: Home occupations listed as permitted or
           conditional within this title may be permitted in a single-family or a multiple-family
           dwelling, subject to the standards found within this section and section 9-34-060 of
           this chapter. Businesses within multiple-family dwellings shall provide an approval
           letter from the respective homeowners' association, or management company in the
           case of apartments, if the business proposes any employees, customers or business
           vehicles.



England Salon                                                            App. # 2025-0418-USE
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit         5
                 •   Does not apply as this is a single family home and accessory dwelling
                     unit.

        Q. Licensure: Any home occupation involving childcare shall comply with all applicable
           state and local laws and regulations regarding residential childcare, including, but
           not limited to, provisions of the Utah child care licensing act, as set forth in Utah
           Code Annotated section 26-39-101 et seq., as amended, and the residential certificate
           childcare standards as set forth in the Utah administrative code section R430-50-1 et
           seq., as amended. In addition, cottage food production operations are regulated and
           inspected by the Utah department of agriculture. Any food related home occupation
           under their jurisdiction must comply with these regulations.

                 •   The home occupation does not provide childcare nor is it engaged in
                     cottage food production.

The applicant is requesting a deviation from criteria listed in DCMC 9-34-40 regarding
customers coming to the home and the business not being located in the main dwelling. A
home occupation that does not comply with the criteria may be established through a
conditional use permit per DCMC 9-34-060. The reasonably anticipated detrimental effects
related to operating a personal care service with customers coming to the home is people
coming and going from the property and the potential vehicle traffic generated by
customers and vehicles parked on the street. In regards to this particular home
occupation, the potential for such detrimental effects is mitigated by how the applicant
operates the business.

As described in Exhibit G, the anticipated number of customer appointments in a single day
is up to six (6) customers. Appointments are scheduled one at a time with lead time in
between appointments to prevent customers arriving before the previous customer has
left the property. Business is conducted only during the hours of operation which are 9:00
a.m. to 5:00 p.m., Monday through Friday. An off-street parking stall is located on the
driveway, but does not block any garage access. The DCMC standards require the use to
be in the main dwelling and this proposed use will be located in an existing accessory
dwelling unit. This is not detrimental as the accessory dwelling unit was designed and built
with the future salon planned and the lot is large enough to accommodate the use.



Criteria For Approval.
The criteria for review and potential approval of a home occupation conditional use permit
request are found in Section 9-5-080(E) of the DCMC. This section depicts the standard of
review for such requests as:




England Salon                                                         App. # 2025-0418-USE
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit       6
        E. Approval Standards: The standards of this subsection shall apply to the issuance of a
           conditional use permit:
           1. A conditional use permit may be issued for a use to be located within a zone
              where the particular conditional use is allowed by the use regulations of the zone.
           2. Reasonable conditions may be imposed as necessary to substantially mitigate
              reasonably anticipated detrimental effects of the proposed use. These conditions
              may include conditions concerning use, construction, character, location,
              landscaping, screening, parking, hours of operation, and other matters relating
              to the purposes and objectives of this section. Such conditions shall be expressly
              set forth in the motion authorizing the conditional use permit.
           3. If the reasonably anticipated detrimental effects of a proposed conditional use
              cannot be substantially mitigated by the imposition of reasonable conditions to
              achieve compliance with applicable standards, the conditional use may be
              denied.
           4. The following factors shall be reviewed and considered in determining whether a
              conditional use permit application should be approved, approved with
              conditions, or denied because reasonable conditions cannot be imposed to
              achieve compliance with applicable standards:
              a. The harmony and compliance of the proposed use with the objectives and
                   requirements of the city's general plan and this title;
              b. The suitability of the specific property for the proposed use;
              c. Whether the proposed use or facility may be injurious to potential or existing
                   development in the vicinity;
              d. The economic impact of the proposed facility or use on the surrounding area;
              e. The aesthetic impact of the proposed facility or use on the surrounding area;
              f. The safeguards proposed or provided to ensure adequate utilities,
                   transportation access, drainage, parking, loading space, lighting, screening,
                   landscaping, open space, fire protection, and pedestrian and vehicular
                   circulation;
              g. The safeguards provided or proposed to prevent noxious or offensive
                   emissions such as noise, glare, dust, pollutants and odor from the proposed
                   facility or use; and
              h. The impact of the proposed facility or use on the health, safety, and welfare of
                   the city, the area, and persons owning or leasing property in the area.
           5. The planning commission may request additional information as may be
              reasonably needed to determine whether the requirements of this subsection E
              can be met.

Staff believes that the potential detrimental effects related to parking, traffic, customers
coming to the home and hours of operation can be mitigated by the applicant’s proposed
mitigation measures and has incorporated them into the suggested conditions for
approval.




England Salon                                                          App. # 2025-0418-USE
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit       7
REVIEWS
Planning Division Review. The Draper City Planning Division has completed their review of
the Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit Request submission. Comments from this
division, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Engineering and Public Works Divisions Review. The Draper City Engineering and Public
Works Divisions have completed their reviews of the Home Occupation Conditional Use
Permit Request submission. Comments from these divisions, if any, can be found in Exhibit
A.

Building Division Review. The Draper City Building Division has completed their review of the
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit Request submission. Comments from this
division, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Fire Division Review. The Draper City Fire Marshal has completed his review of the Home
Occupation Conditional Use Permit Request submission. Comments from this division, if
any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Noticing. Notice has been properly issued in the manner outlined in the City and State
Codes.



STAFF RECOMMENDATION
Staff recommends that the Planning Commission review the request based on the findings
listed below and the criteria for approval, or denial as listed within the staff report. The
Planning Commission should also review the request, hear from the applicant, and receive
public comment prior to making a decision.

If the Planning Commission decides to approve the request, staff recommends they include
the following conditions of approval:

        1.       That all requirements of the Draper City Engineering, Public Works, Building,
                 Planning, and Fire Divisions are satisfied.
        2.       That a Draper City business license shall be obtained and maintained by the
                 business owner for as long as the business remains in operation.
        3.       That only one (1) customer at a time shall receive services at the subject
                 property.
        4.       That all customer appointments shall be scheduled in advance and that
                 unscheduled walk-in customers shall not be permitted.
        5.       Appointments shall be scheduled so as to provide an adequate break or lead
                 time between customers.




England Salon                                                         App. # 2025-0418-USE
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit       8
        6.       That one (1) off-street parking stall shall be provided for the customers of the
                 business in the location shown on the approved site plan.
        7.       That the hours of operation be limited to between 9:00 am to 5:00 pm,
                 Monday through Friday.
        8.       Parking for the salon shall not obstruct the required Fire Department turn
                 around area on the driveway.



MODEL MOTIONS AND FINDINGS
Sample Motion for Approval – I move that we approve the Home Occupation Conditional
Use Permit, as requested by Kayleen England, property owner, application 2025-0418-USE,
based on the following findings for approval and subject to the conditions listed in the Staff
Report dated December 30, 2025.

Findings for approval:

        1. The proposal complies with the standards for approval found in DCMC Section 9-
           5-080(E) and potential negative impacts are mitigated through the imposition of
           reasonable conditions.

I move that we approve the Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit, as requested by
Kayleen England, property owner, application 2025-0418-USE, based on the following
findings for approval and subject to the conditions listed in the Staff Report dated
December 30, 2025 and as modified by the following additional findings or conditions:

        1. List any additional findings…
        2. List any additional conditions…

Sample Motion for Denial – I move that we deny the Home Occupation Conditional Use
Permit, as requested by Kayleen England, property owner, application 2025-0418-USE,
based on the following findings and the criteria for denial as listed in the Staff Report dated
December 30, 2025.

Findings for denial:

        1. The proposal does not comply with all standards for approval found in DCMC
           Section 9-5-080(E) and potential negative impacts are not able to be sufficiently
           mitigated through the imposition of reasonable conditions.




England Salon                                                           App. # 2025-0418-USE
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit        9
                                         EXHIBIT A
                                    DEPARTMENT REVIEWS

REVIEWS ARE NOT MEANT TO BE AN ALL INCLUSIVE LIST OF POSSIBLE COMMENTS OR
CONDITIONS.

Planning Division Review.
1.     No additional comments.

Engineering and Public Works Divisions Review.
1.     The present and future requirements for transportation, traffic, water, sewer, and other
       utilities for the subject site do not appear to be detrimentally impacted as described.
       Given the location and proposed use, the use is not anticipated to generate a significant
       impact to water, sewer, or other potential utilities.
2.     The number of trips generated by the home owner as the applicant and business
       operator and up to six clients coming to the residence by appointment only will not have
       a detrimental impact to traffic in the area. Based on the applicant’s statements, the
       potential for issues with traffic would be minimal. The capacity of the fronting public
       streets, 1300 East is a major collector street, with significant capacity. While the actual site
       is located on a private street, which is equivalent to a residential street with limited
       neighborhood traffic. Based on the description of the traffic generated by the business,
       the number of trips generated by the associated occupation and clients is limited and
       does not impact current traffic loads on the street. Based on the statements of the
       applicant about no employees and requiring appoints for clients coming to the subject
       property, no significant impact to traffic is anticipated with the proposed use.
3.     The applicant indicated that all needed parking is available in the existing driveway. The
       subject home is located on a private street with no on-street permitted due to width.
       All associated parking is required to be on the driveway. Based on the information from
       the applicant that any clients will park on the existing driveway, no significant impact
       to parking is anticipated with the proposed use.

Building Division Review.
1.     No additional comments.

Fire Division Review.
1.      2A-10BC Fire Extinguishers required. The extinguisher needs to be a serviceable
        type meaning metal head and metal neck. Extinguishers need to be located in a
        conspicuous location where they will be readily accessible and immediately
        available for use. Placed on every level of the home. If in cabinet or not the
        extinguisher or cabinet needs to be mounted so that the top is not more than five
        (5) feet above the floor.
2.      There shall be single station interconnected smoke detectors in good working
        condition on each level occupied by the clients. Battery operated smoke detectors
     shall be, permitted if the home demonstrates testing, maintenance, and battery
     replacement to insure continued operation of the smoke detectors.
3.   603.6 Extension Cords. Extension cords shall not be a substitute for permanent
     wiring and shall be listed and labeled in accordance with UL 817. Extension cords
     shall not be affixed to structures, extended through walls, ceilings or floors, or
     under doors or floor coverings, nor shall such cords be subject to environmental
     damage or physical impact. Extension cords shall be used only with portable
     appliances. Extension cords marked for indoor use shall not be used outdoors.
4.   603.6.1 Application and Use. Extension cords shall be plugged directly into an
     approved receptacle, relocatable power tap or current tap and, except for
     approved multiplug extension cords, shall serve only one portable appliance.
5.   603.6.2 Ampacity. The ampacity of the extension cords shall be not less than the
     rated capacity of the portable appliance supplied by the cord.
6.   603.6.3 Maintenance. Extension cords shall be maintained in good condition
     without splices, deterioration or damage.
7.   Visible Addressing Required. New and existing buildings shall have approved
     address numbers plainly legible and visible from the street fronting the property.
     These numbers shall contrast with their background.
  EXHIBIT B
VICINITY MAP
 EXHIBIT C
AERIAL MAP
  EXHIBIT D
LAND USE MAP
 EXHIBIT E
ZONING MAP
EXHIBIT F
OVERVIEW
            Draper City ADU Application – Supporting Statements
Project Address: 13058 S 1300 E, Draper, UT 84020
Parcel Number: 28-32-426-077
Project Type: Residential ADU with Salon/Esthetics Practice

Statement of Variance Applicability
The proposed project does not require any variances. The accessory dwelling unit (ADU) and
associated salon/esthetics practice at 13058 S 1300 E, Draper, UT 84020 (Parcel
28-32-426-077) comply with Draper City zoning and development standards. No variances
are being requested.

Statement of Compliance with Standards
The proposed project complies with Draper City’s adopted zoning, ADU, and home
occupation standards:

- Parking: A dedicated off-street parking stall in the driveway is reserved for client use, in
addition to required stalls for the primary residence and ADU occupant.
- Size: The ADU contains 570 square feet on the first floor (salon area) and 1,286 square feet
upstairs (residential living area), in compliance with Draper’s ADU size requirements.
- Owner/Occupant Residency: The property owner and business operators reside on the
property in the main dwelling and/or ADU, fulfilling Draper’s owner-occupancy requirement.
- Business Operations: The salon/esthetics practice will operate fully indoors, with no
exterior changes and no signage beyond what Draper City permits for home occupations.
- Traffic: The business will operate by appointment only, with an estimated six clients per day,
minimizing impact on neighborhood traffic and parking.
- Hours: Normal operating hours are Monday–Friday, 9:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m.
- Building & Fire Codes: The ADU has already been constructed, inspected, and approved
by Draper City and complies with current building and life-safety codes.

Overview of Proposed Use
The applicant proposes to use the ADU located at 13058 S 1300 E, Draper, UT 84020 (Parcel
28-32-426-077) as a small salon and esthetics practice.

Services will include standard salon and esthetics offerings such as haircuts, styling, coloring,
skincare treatments, and related beauty services. Each appointment will last approximately
one hour.

The business is expected to serve up to six clients per day. Client visits are by appointment
only, ensuring a low-intensity use consistent with Draper’s home occupation standards.

The property includes a dedicated off-street parking stall in the driveway reserved for client
use. The property owner and operators reside in the home and/or ADU.
Hours of operation will be 9:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m., Monday through Friday.

The proposed use complies fully with Draper City’s zoning and home occupation
requirements and will not negatively affect the surrounding residential neighborhood.

Analysis of Deviations Requested
No deviations from Draper City standards are requested with this application. The project is
designed and operated in full compliance with applicable ADU, zoning, and home occupation
requirements.

General Documents Statement
All required supporting documents are included in this application. No additional general
documents are necessary at this time.




______________________________
Signature of Applicant

Date: _________________________
      9/18/25
             EXHIBIT G
HOME OCCUPATION STANDARDS RESPONSES
9-34-050: DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS; PERMITTED USE:

The development standards set forth in this section shall apply to any home
occupation allowed as a permitted use:

A.    Ownership: The home occupation shall be owned and operated by a person
      who resides in the dwelling where the home occupation is located. Such
      person shall be the primary provider of the labor, work, or service provided in
      the home occupation. Okay, person operating business lives here.

B.    Business License: A business license for the home occupation shall be
      obtained from and continually maintained with the city pursuant to Title 6,
      Chapter 11 of this code. Okay, will obtain a business license and continually
      maintain it.

C.    Employees: Members of the family of the owner who reside in the dwelling
      may be employed in the home occupation. Nonfamily or nonresident
      employees shall be limited to one person. There will be no other employees.

D.    Inspection: All facilities shall comply with fire, building, plumbing, electrical
      and all other city, county, state and federal codes. Inspections during
      reasonable hours by city officials may occur as necessary to assure
      compliance with regulations. Okay, we will be available for this.

E.    Inventory: No stock in trade, inventory, or other merchandise to exceed two
      hundred fifty (250) square feet shall be kept on the premises. No outside
      storage is allowed. Perfect, no need for outside storage and inside is less
      than 250.

F.    Modification of Structures or Yards: There shall be no visible evidence from
      the exterior of a dwelling that it is being used for any other purpose than that
      of a dwelling. No activities shall be carried on outside the dwelling in the yard
      for the benefit of or incidental to the home occupation. No front yard area
      shall be altered to provide parking required for a home occupation. This
      business will not affect the yard.

G.    Nuisance: Tools, items, equipment, or activities conducted within the dwelling
      which is offensive or noxious by reason of the emission of odor, smoke, gas,
      vibration, magnetic interference, or noise shall be prohibited. No tools will be
      a nuisance or loud in any way.

H.    Secondary Use: The home occupation shall be clearly incidental and
      secondary to the primary use of the dwelling for residential purposes. The
      home occupation shall not disrupt the normal residential character of the
      neighborhood in which the residence is located. Not more than twenty five
      percent (25%) of the dwelling unit shall be used for the home occupation.
      Does not disrupt normal dwelling in any way and is 10% of building.

I.    Signs: All signage in a residential area must comply with Chapter 26, "Signs",
      of this title. There is no signage.
J.    Traffic, Parking, and Access: No home occupation use shall generate
      pedestrian, parking, or vehicular traffic in excess of that customarily
      associated with the zone in which the use is located. All parking shall be
      provided and maintained on site with adequate provision for drop off traffic.
      No more than one car will be her at a scheduled time.

K.    Vehicles: Other than the business owner's personal transportation, there
      shall be no vehicles or equipment on the property associated with the home
      occupation which would not normally be found at a residence. No signage
      for the home occupation shall be allowed on vehicles. No business vehicles

L.    Yards: Yards surrounding the dwelling and accessory buildings shall not be
      used for any activities or storage of any materials associated with the home
      occupation. No storage or anything outside of the business square footage is
      used for this business.

M.    Customers: No customers allowed. Children accessing a limited daycare or
      limited preschool facility shall not be considered customers. No daycare or
      children at all.

N.    Utility Demand: The home occupation shall not cause a demand for public
      utilities in excess of that necessarily and customarily provided for residential
      uses. It does not.

O.    Main Structure: The home occupations shall be conducted, located, and
      contained within the primary structure on the property. It is in a legal ADU.

P.    Single-Family And Multiple-Family Dwellings: Home occupations listed as
      permitted or conditional within this title may be permitted in a single-family or
      a multiple-family dwelling, subject to the standards found within this Section
      and Section 9-34-060 of this chapter. Businesses within multiple-family
      dwellings shall provide an approval letter from the respective homeowners'
      association, or management company in the case of apartments, if the
      business proposes any employees, customers or business vehicles. N/A

Q.    Licensure: Any home occupation involving childcare shall comply with all
      applicable state and local laws and regulations regarding residential
      childcare, including, but not limited to, provisions of the Utah child care
      licensing act, as set forth in Utah Code Annotated section 26-39-101 et seq.,
      as amended, and the residential certificate childcare standards as set forth in
      the Utah administrative code section R430-50-1 et seq., as amended. In
      addition, cottage food production operations are regulated and inspected by
      the Utah department of agriculture. Any food related home occupation under
      their jurisdiction must comply with these regulations. N/A

I have answered each section above in red



Kayleen England                    12/12/25
    EXHIBIT H
PHOTOS AND PLANS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            SHEET NOTES
                                                                                                     N89° 46' 16" W                                                                                                                                                                                               #                       Comments
                                                                                                        177.03'                                                                                                                                                                                                   1 Driveway slope to have be a min. 2% away from
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    garage. Maximum slope to be 12%




                                                                                           SETBACK
                                                                                30' - 0"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  2 Final grade to slope away from house @ 5%




                                                                                                                                                       MIN.
                                                                                                                                                        5%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    minimum for the first 10'
                                                          14 9                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    3 Drainage to slope away from home to a public




                                                                                                                                                                 62' - 4 1/2"
                                                              '-5




                                                                                                                                     63' - 1"




                                                                                                                                                                                        "
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    utility. All drainage to be prevented from going to




                                                                                                                                                                                63' - 5
                                                                     1/2
                                                                           "
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    any neighboring property. Drainage must go to
                                                                                                             wattle fencing (area                                                                                                                                                                                   street
                                                                                                             of disturbance)                     temp. drain                                             Do not disturb onsite draingage retention area (southwest corner of lot)                                 4 Landscape by others
                                                                                                                                                    swale                                                Direct all runoff to retention area and do not allow storm runoff to leave parcel.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  5 Provide 2% rise in sewer lateral as per IRC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  6 Retaining walls to be provided w/ style as per
                                                             135' - 6"                                                                                                          11' - 6"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    owner. Any walls over 4'-0" must be designed by
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    a licensed engineer




                          S00° 35' 38" W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  7 Landscaping berming to be provided for runoff
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    water retention




                             168.32'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  8 SWPPP sign location
                                                                                                                          5%
                                                                                                                          MIN.
                                                                                                                                                 NEW MIN.
                                                                                                                                                      5%
                                                                                                                                                BUILD
                                                                                                                          portable
                                                                                                                           toilet




                                                                                                     sewer
                                                                                                     water
                                                                                                                                                                                concrete
                                                                                                                        Parking                                                 washout
                                                                                                                                         temp. drain
                                                                                                                                            swale



                                                                                                                                                          construction
                                                                                                                                                           dumpster




                                                                               elec.
                                                                               gas
         N89° 24' 22" W                                                                                                                                                                              Driveway leading to ADU should
                                                                                                                                                                                                     conform to standards in DCMC 9-10-075
             42.89'




                                                                                                                                                       MIN.
                                                                                                                                                       5%
S00° 28' 20" W




                                                                                                                                                                                            N00° 35' 38" W
    42.58'




                                                                                                                                                                                               329.23'



                                                                                                                                                                                                                           north
                 S89° 24' 22" E
                     50.47'
                                                             EXISTING
                                                             HOME
                                                                                                                                                                                     12' - 0"                                                                                                                                          SCALE
                             S02° 24' 04" W




                                                                                                                                                                                  SETBACK                                                                                                                        ARCH B (12 x 18)                         Scale: 1" = 20'-0"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ARCH D (24 x 36)                         Scale: 1" = 10'-0"
                                116.97'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              England ADU
                                                           SETBACK
                                               30' - 0"




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         13058 S. 1300 E.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Draper, UT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         17 April 2024
                                                                                                                                                  Stabilized
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Project 2024 - 18
                                                          EASMENT
                                              30' - 0"




                                                                                                                                                 Construction
                                                                                                                                                  Entrance                                    8
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Builder must confirm all dimensions, site conditions,
                                                                                                         S89° 20' 04" E                                                                                                                                                                                          and measurements prior to construction. Plans and
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 documents are the property of Jewkes Design. Any
                                                                                                            173.05'                                                                                                                                                                       LOT INFO               reuse or distribution in part or in whole without written
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 permission is prohibited.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Address               13058 S. 1300 E.
                                                                     1300 E                                                                                                                                                                                                 City                Draper, UT                      SITE PLAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Subdivision
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Lot #
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            C201
                                    HEAD HEIGHTS MEASURED FROM MAIN                                                                                                         HEAD HEIGHTS MEASURED FROM UPPER                                                                            COMPLETE SCHEDULES ON C103
                                                 LEVEL                                                                                                                                    LEVEL                                                                                        COMPLETE SCHEDULES ON C103

        MAIN LEVEL DOOR SCHEDULE                                  MAIN LEVEL WINDOW SCHEDULE                                              UPPER LEVEL DOOR SCHEDULE                                             UPPER LEVEL WINDOW SCHEDULE
       NAME            WIDTH             HEIGHT                                                       HEAD                               NAME                 WIDTH                    HEIGHT                                                                           HEAD
        D1              2' - 6"            8' - 0"            NAME      WIDTH           HEIGHT       HEIGHT                               D8                   2' - 6"                  6' - 0"           NAME        WIDTH            HEIGHT                          HEIGHT
        D2              2' - 6"            8' - 0"             W2        2' - 6"         5' - 0"       8' - 0"                            D9                   2' - 6"                  6' - 8"            W1          2' - 6"          2' - 6"                         6' - 8"
        D4              3' - 0"            8' - 0"             W4        4' - 0"         2' - 0"      10' - 0"                            D10                  3' - 0"                  6' - 8"            W3          3' - 0"          5' - 0"                         6' - 8"
        D5              3' - 0"            8' - 0"                                                                                        D11                  3' - 0"                  6' - 8"            W5          4' - 0"          5' - 0"                         6' - 8"
        D6              3' - 0"            8' - 0"                                                                                        D12                  5' - 0"                  6' - 0"            W6          5' - 0"          5' - 0"                         6' - 8"                                                 SHEET NOTES
        D7             20' - 0"           14' - 0"                                                                                        D13                  5' - 0"                  6' - 8"            W8          5' - 0"          5' - 0"                         6' - 8"
                                                                                                                                          D14                 10' - 0"                  8' - 0"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       #                      Comments
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       1 Attic access as per IRC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       2 A handrail is req'd from the nosing at top stair to
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         the nosing of the bottom stair as per IRC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       3 36" min. guardrail is req'd as per IRC, w/ style as
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         per owner
                                                                                                                                                                                  W3                 W8              W3
                                                                  h.b. 13                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              4 Square opening w/ casing as per owner. Top @
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         8'-0"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       5 A tile pan & floor drain is req'd for washer &
                               11                            18                                                                                                                                                                        2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         dryer
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       3                                                                               6 Tempered glass for shower door and enclosure is
                               12
                                                                                              PDR                                                                                                                                                                                                                        required. Style as per owner
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       7 Custom tiled bench in shower as per owner
                                                                                                                                8                                                                                                                                                                                      8 8" x 8" timber column w/ finish as per owner
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 1




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             STORAGE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       #                       Comments
         MECH /                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        1 Provide gas meter as per code
                                         MASSAGE                              SALON
 B
        STORAGE                             10' CEILING                        10' CEILING                        B            BALCONY                                                         LIVING                                                                                                                  2 Provide power meter as per code
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       3 A/C units and pads to be provided as per code.




                                                                                                                                                         D14
            14' CEILING                         143 SF                             130 SF                        A301                                                                         VAULTED @ 1'-6"
A301                                                                                                                                VAULTED                                                                                                                                                                               Units to be installed as per manufacturer specs
                108 SF 14       16                                                                                                                                                                380 SF
                                                                                                                                     121 SF                                                                                                                                                                            4 A 36" x 36" min. landing is req'd outside all
         w.h.             15    17                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        exterior doors
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       5 Slope concrete slab 4" to doors
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       6 Plumbing, water, vacuum, and other penetrations
         f.a.u.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           through garage fire wall to be w/ metal piping




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              D8
                                    9
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       7 (2) layers1/2" type 'x' typ. bd. @ clg. ^ (1) layer
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          5/8" type 'x' gyp. bd. @ house walls are req'd as
                                                                                   10
                                                                                        h&c                                                                                                                                                                                                                               per IRC




                                                                                                                                                                   ref
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       8 6" conc. curb is required in garage




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  W3
                                                                                               air comp                                                                                                                                                                                                                9 Door from garage to house to be metal, 20 min.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          fire-rated w/ self closing hinges as per IRC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       10 Hot & cold mixing valve as per owner
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       11 A handrail is req'd from the nosing at top stair to
                                                                                                                                                                                 KITCHEN                             DINING




                                                                                                                                                                         range
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          the nosing of the bottom stair as per IRC




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  W5
                                                                                                                                                                                 VAULT @ 1'-6"                        VAULT @ 8'-0"                                                                                    12 36" min. guardrail is req'd as per IRC, w/ style as
                                                                                                                                                                                    161 SF                               249 SF                                                                                           per owner
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       13 Hose bibb w/ backflow preventers and
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          non-freeze type to be installed at front and rear
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          of home as per IRC




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  W3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       14 Exterior combustion air is req'd as per IRC
                                                                                                                                                                                                PANTRY CABINETS                                                                                                        15 Weatherproofing threshold in cold storage and
                                                     5   7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          mech.
                                                     6   8                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             16 Seismic straps are req'd for water heater as per
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          IRC
                                                                                                                                                                                             STORAGE CABINETS
                                        4 CAR GARAGE                                                                                            7   6                                                                                                                                                                  17 Contractor to provide flue as required




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           wash.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       18 5/8" type 'x' gyp. bd. under stairs as per IRC




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 D13
                                                                                                                                    W1




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           dry.
                                                                                                                                                                                        D9
                                                                                                                                                                   BATH                        D10        D11




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           SCALE



                                                                                                                                                    CLOSET




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    CLOSET
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ARCH B (12 x 18)                        Scale: 1/8" = 1'-0"




                                                                                                                                                             D12




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              D12
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ARCH D (24 x 36)                        Scale: 1/4" = 1'-0"
                                                                                                                                                                   BEDROOM 1 BEDROOM 2                                                                                                                                            England ADU
                                                                                                                                                                         VAULTED @ 1'-6"                   VAULTED @ 1'-6"
                                                                                                                                                                             127 SF                            127 SF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             13058 S. 1300 E.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Draper, UT
                                                                                                                                                             D12




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              D12
                                                                                                                         A
                                                                                                                        A301
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             17 April 2024
                                                                                                                                                                                  W6                                 W6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Project 2024 - 18


          h.b.
                  13                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Builder must confirm all dimensions, site conditions,
                                                                                                                                            C                                                                                                                      D
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     and measurements prior to construction. Plans and
                                                                                                    D
                                                                                                                                           A302                                                                                                                A302                                                  documents are the property of Jewkes Design. Any
                                                                                                   A302
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     reuse or distribution in part or in whole without written
                               Main Level Floor Plan                                                                                                                              Upper Level Floor Plan                                                                                                             permission is prohibited.


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           MAIN AND UPPER
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            FLOOR PLAN

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                A103
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   SHEET NOTES
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                MAIN LEVEL DOOR SCHEDULE
                                                                     30' - 0"                                                                                                                                                                                                                                30' - 0"                                                                                                                                      NAME       WIDTH      HEIGHT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             D1        2' - 6"    8' - 0"
                                                                                                                                                                                                           4' - 0"                                9' - 6"                                       5' - 6"                          5' - 6"                                    9' - 6"                                                                          D2        2' - 6"    8' - 0"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             D4        3' - 0"    8' - 0"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             D5        3' - 0"    8' - 0"
                                           15' - 8"                                       8' - 2"                           6' - 2"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             D6        3' - 0"    8' - 0"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             D7        20' - 0"   14' - 0"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          HEAD HEIGHTS MEASURED FROM MAIN
2' - 6"




                                                                                            2' - 10"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       LEVEL




                                                                                                                                                                           4' - 4"




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     4' - 6"
                     4' - 6"




                                                                                                                 5' - 10"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              MAIN LEVEL WINDOW SCHEDULE




                                                                                            1' - 8"




                                                                                                                                          7' - 11"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  HEAD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      11' - 2"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         8' - 4"                                                                 16' - 10"                                                       4' - 4"                   4' - 6"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          NAME        WIDTH      HEIGHT          HEIGHT
                                                      6' - 10"                  3' - 4"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           W2          2' - 6"    5' - 0"         8' - 0"
                                8' - 10"                         10' - 8"                              4' - 0"              6' - 6"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           W4          4' - 0"    2' - 0"         10' - 0"




                                                                                                                                                                                       7' - 7"
                                                                                                                                                     18' - 6"




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  19' - 0"
                                                                                                                                          2' - 10"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 COMPLETE SCHEDULES ON C103

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                UPPER LEVEL DOOR SCHEDULE
                     14' - 0"




                                                                                                                                                                           15' - 2"




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     15' - 0"
                                                                                                                 12' - 8"




                                                                                                                                          2' - 10"
19' - 6"




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           NAME       WIDTH      HEIGHT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            D8         2' - 6"    6' - 0"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            D9         2' - 6"    6' - 8"




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      8' - 4"
                                                                                                                                          3' - 1"




                                                                                                                                                                                       7' - 7"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            D10        3' - 0"    6' - 8"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            D11        3' - 0"    6' - 8"




                                                                                                                                          1' - 10"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            D12        5' - 0"    6' - 0"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            D13        5' - 0"    6' - 8"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            D14       10' - 0"    8' - 0"




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       3' - 0"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         HEAD HEIGHTS MEASURED FROM UPPER
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       2' - 0"                   4' - 0"         3' - 0"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       LEVEL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              UPPER LEVEL WINDOW SCHEDULE
                                                                                                                                          10' - 0"




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       4' - 6"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  HEAD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          NAME        WIDTH        HEIGHT        HEIGHT
6' - 6"




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    7' - 6"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     13' - 10"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           W1          2' - 6"      2' - 6"       6' - 8"




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  15' - 0"
                                                                                                                                                                           15' - 10"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           W3          3' - 0"      5' - 0"       6' - 8"




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             55' - 0"
                                                                                                                                                                55' - 0"                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   W5          4' - 0"      5' - 0"       6' - 8"




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       4' - 6"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           W6          5' - 0"      5' - 0"       6' - 8"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           W8          5' - 0"      5' - 0"       6' - 8"




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    4' - 0"
7' - 0"




                                                                                                                                          7' - 0"




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       3' - 0"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   4' - 10"                                                  13' - 10"                                                6' - 10"                                    6' - 6"




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     2' - 0"




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       1' - 4"
                                                                                                                                                     36' - 6"




                                                                                                                                                                                                 3' - 4"




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     6' - 2"




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       6' - 2"
                                                                                                                                                                           6' - 8"
7' - 0"




                                                                                                                                          7' - 0"




                                                                                                                                                                                                 3' - 4"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   4' - 4"                       6' - 6"                                                      12' - 8"                                     3' - 0"              3' - 6"




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              SCALE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  21' - 0"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ARCH B (12 x 18)                        Scale: 1/8" = 1'-0"
7' - 0"




                                                                                                                                          7' - 0"




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ARCH D (24 x 36)                        Scale: 1/4" = 1'-0"

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     England ADU


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     13' - 6"




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       13' - 6"
                                                                                                                                                                           13' - 0"




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                13058 S. 1300 E.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Draper, UT
5' - 6"




                                                                                                                                          5' - 6"




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                17 April 2024
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              2' - 6"        2' - 4"                              10' - 4"                                                 10' - 4"                                   2' - 4"      2' - 2"                                                      Project 2024 - 18

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Builder must confirm all dimensions, site conditions,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        and measurements prior to construction. Plans and
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        documents are the property of Jewkes Design. Any
                                                                                                                                                                                                           4' - 0"                                9' - 10"                                                   10' - 4"                                                      9' - 10"                          2' - 0"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        reuse or distribution in part or in whole without written
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        permission is prohibited.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             30' - 0"
                     5' - 0"                                         20' - 0"                                                   5' - 0"


                                                                     30' - 0"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              MAIN AND UPPER
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              DIMENSION PLAN
               01 - Main Level Dimensions                                                                                                                                                                                   02 - Upper Level Dimensions
           1                                                                                                                                                                                                         2



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   A104
               1/4" = 1'-0"                                                                                                                                                                                                 1/4" = 1'-0"
        1   3




                                      Upper Ceiling
                                          127' - 0"                                SHEET NOTES
                                      Upper Dormer
                                            Bearing
                                           125' - 0"
                                                                          #                      Comments
4                                                                         1 Soffit, ridge, & j-vents to be provided to adequate
                                                                            attic ventilation. Ventilation to equal 1/150 of
7                                                                           attic space as per IRC
6                                                                         2 Architectural asphalt composition shingles w/
                                                                            style as per owner. Shingles to be class 'A'
                                       Roof Bearing                       3 Standing seam metal roof w/ color and style as
                                           118' - 6"                        per owner
                                        Upper Level                       4 4" Fascia board w/ style & vented soffit as per
                                           117' - 0"                        owner
                                      Main Bearing                        5 Horizontal siding w/ style, color, and finish as
                                          116' - 0"
                                                                            per owner
                                                                          6 36" min. guardrail as per IRC. Style, material, and
    5                                                                       color as per owner
                                                                          7 8" x 8" timber columns w/ finish as per owner
                                                                          8 Metal braces w/ style & color as per owner



                                  8




                                         Main Level
                                           100' - 0"




                FRONT ELEVATION




                                                                                              SCALE
                                                                        ARCH B (12 x 18)                        Scale: 1/8" = 1'-0"
                                                                        ARCH D (24 x 36)                        Scale: 1/4" = 1'-0"

                                                                                     England ADU
                                                                                13058 S. 1300 E.
                                                                                Draper, UT
                                                                                17 April 2024
                                                                                Project 2024 - 18

                                                                        Builder must confirm all dimensions, site conditions,
                                                                        and measurements prior to construction. Plans and
                                                                        documents are the property of Jewkes Design. Any
                                                                        reuse or distribution in part or in whole without written
                                                                        permission is prohibited.


                                                                                 FRONT & REAR
                                                                                  ELEVATIONS
                                                       REAR ELEVATION
                                                                                   A201
                       2




                                              SHEET NOTES
                                            see A201 for notes




                 RIGHT ELEVATION




                                                         SCALE
                                   ARCH B (12 x 18)                        Scale: 1/8" = 1'-0"
                                   ARCH D (24 x 36)                        Scale: 1/4" = 1'-0"

                                                England ADU
                                           13058 S. 1300 E.
                                           Draper, UT
                                           17 April 2024
                                           Project 2024 - 18

                                   Builder must confirm all dimensions, site conditions,
                                   and measurements prior to construction. Plans and
                                   documents are the property of Jewkes Design. Any
                                   reuse or distribution in part or in whole without written
                                   permission is prohibited.


                                              LEFT & RIGHT
                                              ELEVATIONS


LEFT ELEVATION
                                              A202
                                               SHEET NOTES




                 FRONT RIGHT
    FRONT LEFT




                                                          SCALE
                                    ARCH B (12 x 18)                        Scale: 1/8" = 1'-0"
                                    ARCH D (24 x 36)                        Scale: 1/4" = 1'-0"

                                                 England ADU
                                            13058 S. 1300 E.
                                            Draper, UT
                                            17 April 2024
                                            Project 2024 - 18

                                    Builder must confirm all dimensions, site conditions,
                                    and measurements prior to construction. Plans and
                                    documents are the property of Jewkes Design. Any
                                    reuse or distribution in part or in whole without written
                                    permission is prohibited.


                                                    3D VIEWS

REAR LEFT              REAR RIGHT

                                               A203
