         Minutes of Joint Session of Council of Ogden City, Utah, November 14, 2023 Page


         Minutes of the joint work session of the Ogden City Council, also acting as the Redevelopment Agency and Municipal
Building Authority, held on Tuesday, November 14, 2023, at 4:00 p.m., in the Council Work Room, and via electronic meeting,
on the third floor of the Municipal Building, 2549 Washington Boulevard, Ogden City, Weber County, Utah.

         Present:          Chair                  Angela Choberka
                           Vice Chair             Ken Richey
                           Council members        Bart E. Blair
                                                  Richard A. Hyer
                                                  Ben Nadolski
                                                  Marcia L. White (via Zoom)

                           Council Executive Director Janene Eller-Smith
                           Council Deputy Director Glenn Symes
                           Communications and Public Engagement Coordinator Brandon Garside
                           Communications Project Coordinator Eric Davenport

         Excused:          Council member Luis Lopez

         Also present:     Chief Administrative Officer Mara Brown
                           Management Services Director Lisa Stout
                           Acting Comptroller Justin Sorensen
                           Public Services Director Jay Lowder
                           Assistant City Engineer Taylor Nielsen
                           Sustainability Coordinator Lorenzo Long
                           Arts, Culture, and Events Manager Christy McBride
                           Museum Curator Hope Eggett
                           Community and Economic Development Director Brandon Cooper
                           Community and Economic Development Deputy Director Jared Johnson
                           Business Development Manager Sara Meess
                           Deputy Business Development Manager David Sawyer
                           Building Services Manager Chris Tremea
                           City Recorder Tracy Hansen

         The purpose of the joint work session was to review the agenda for the City Council meeting scheduled to begin at 6:00
p.m.; discuss development of City Sustainability Plan; discuss Union Station Centennial Celebration; discuss proposed Street
Vacation – Northern portion of 3rd Street between Porter Avenue and Jefferson Avenue; discuss proposed Business Depot Ogden
Lease Revenue Ordinance Amendments; discuss proposed Fiscal Year 2023-2024 Budget Amendment – Municipal Building
Authority Parking Reserve; discuss proposed Fiscal Year 2023-2024 Budget Amendment – Water & Sewer Improvements for Ya
YA Foods Expansion; discuss proposed Fiscal Year 2023-2024 Budget Amendment – Municipal Building Authority Parking
Reserve; discuss Council/Board/Trustee Business; and hear Council/Board/Trustee Comments.

Agenda Review
          Chair Choberka and members of Council staff reviewed the items listed on the agenda for the City Council meeting
scheduled to begin at 6:00 p.m. She cited the removal of agenda item 8a, a proposed ordinance regarding winter parking
amendments, and indicated that before the ordinance is presented to the Council for consideration, a survey will be conducted in
an effort to determine how the proposed regulations will impact households throughout the community. The results of the survey
will be presented to the Council for consideration once they are available. The Council engaged in discussion of appropriate
questions to be included in the survey.

Development of City Sustainability Plan
       Sustainability Coordinator Long used the aid of a PowerPoint presentation to present a development framework for the
Ogden Sustainability Plan; he discussed what sustainable actions the City is currently taking:
            • Energy Wise Ogden Strategic Implementation Plan.
            • Fleet Electrification Pilot Program (Via EECBG Grant).
            • Public EV Charger Pilot (Via RMP Grant).
            • Natural Resources and Sustainability Stewardship Committee.
            • Sustainability Coordinator and Water Conservation Coordinator on staff.
       Mr. Long also discussed the benefits of creating a sustainability plan:
            • Establishes unified goals incorporating existing city plans.
               • Allows Ogden to set its own personalized targets and vision.
               • Increases community resiliency amidst future changing conditions.
               • Saves money through energy efficiency.
               • Preserves outdoor tourism.
               • Contributes to cleaner air.
          There are different types of sustainability plans the City could consider; climate action plans are singularly focused on
reducing greenhouse gas emissions while sustainability plans incorporate other elements of sustainability. For either a City or
Community Plan, its scope could include only Ogden City operations and facilities, similar to a business sustainability plan, or it
could include the entire community so that all planning is done at the same time and efforts are not duplicated in the future. This
would require more time, outreach, and funding. In either scenario, a greenhouse gas emissions inventory is one of the first steps.
It is important to consider which approach is best for Ogden. Some local governments may elect to begin their sustainability
efforts with a focused climate action plan, and then in the future, expand the scope to become a sustainability plan. Other local
governments might prefer to look at all of the sustainability issues holistically and develop a more comprehensive sustainability
plan from the beginning. Mr. Long presented a graphic illustrating the milestones in developing a sustainability plan; the
Sustainability Coordinator would lead the City through the planning process, which would include internal and external
engagement and input, even if the plan is just for City operations and facilities. The timeline is approximately one to two years
depending on City commitment, staff support, and funding. A successful sustainability or climate action plan will require buy-in
and participation from the City Council, the Mayor, and many departments across City Administration. To launch this process, a
joint resolution passed by the City Council, and endorsed by the Mayor, would help to establish the sustainability plan as a high-
priority City objective.
          Discussion among the Council and Mr. Long centered on topics including extending sustainability efforts to private
businesses and households; incorporating sustainability efforts in the City’s General Plan; and discussion between the appropriate
sustainability plan type for the Ogden community.

Union Station Centennial Celebration
           Arts, Culture, and Events Division Manager McBride and Museum Curator Eggett used the aid of a PowerPoint
presentation to discuss the Union Station Centennial Celebration; They presented several photos illustrating the history of the
Station. The original train station was constructed in 1870, but it was a very small clapboard building that Ogden was not very
proud of; the people of Ogden worked together to build a beautiful new building made of sandstone in 1889. It quickly became
outdated and caught fire on the night of February 13, 1923 and much of the interior and the second story was destroyed. After the
fire, the City Council, Ogden Chamber of Commerce, and many residents petitioned the Railroad to build a new building, which
was completed on November 22, 1924 and is the Union Station building that Ogden still enjoys and loves today. Ms. Eggett then
presented information on marketing and retail efforts surrounding the centennial celebration, including printed materials, media
articles, a website, social media announcements, banners, painting the centennial logo on the water tower at the Station, and a
cottage at Christmas Village. Ms. McBride presented the calendar of events for the celebration of the 100th anniversary of the
Station, which will kick off Wednesday, December 6 with a ribbon cutting for the 100 Year exhibit at the Union Station museum.
Several additional events will be held between March of 2024 and November of 2024, culminating with the celebration on Friday
and Saturday, November 22 and 23, 2024 at the Union Station. There will also be several exhibits and programs in the community
to commemorate the centennial celebration, as well as additional installations and collections at the museums at the Station in
support of the event. The Union Station is partnering with several stakeholders in the community and Union Station staff is very
appreciative of their support.
           There was brief discussion among the group regarding the scope of several of the events listed on the calendar of events;
the work being performed on the Merci Car; and efforts to secure contractors for several of the projects included in the
celebration.

Proposed Street Vacation – Northern portion of 3rd Street between
Porter Avenue and Jefferson Avenue
          Planning Manager Brierley explained Steve Diamond has submitted a petition to vacate 25 feet of the northern right-of-
way of 3rd Street between Porter Avenue and Jefferson Avenue. The petition is connected to a rezone of 2.18 acres of adjacent
property from R-1-6 to R-1-5 that was approved by the Council on May 23, 2023. The petitioner is anticipating developing 16
single-family homes on the site of a former church and needs the additional right-of-way to accommodate the development. 3rd
Street jogs to the south at this location going from west to east and the street vacation, along with the dedication of the 25 feet of
existing right-of-way on the south side of 3rd Street, will help realign and straighten the road. The area proposed for vacation was
used for on-street parking for the church. The Planning Commission’s recommendation of approval of the vacation comes with
several requirements including improvements to the curb and gutter, other roadway improvements, the relocation of an irrigation
headwall structure owned by Lynn Irrigation Company, and the combination of the vacated property with the lots to the north. The
proposed vacation was recommended for approval with the following conditions that have been incorporated into the ordinance
for the Council’s consideration:
               1. That the petitioner submits to Ogden City an agreement with Lynn Irrigation Company allowing the petitioner
                    to shift the irrigation headwall structure 14 feet south;
               2. That the curb and gutter will terminate before it reaches the driveway of the southeast corner of the Porter
                    Avenue and 3rd Street intersection, or the petitioner puts in a new drive approach for the property;
              3.   That the applicant submits engineered construction drawings for the public improvements to receive approval
                   from the Ogden City Engineering Division;
               4. That the applicant submits a financial guarantee to complete all public improvements per City standards;
               5. That the plat be modified as follows:
                        a. A narrative is added to the plat describing that the vacated portion will be combined with the parcel
                             directly to the north;
                        b. The 5D development parcel and the 3rd Street vacated parcel be clearly labeled as a single parcel;
                        c. The 3rd Street vacated area include reference to the ordinance number vacating the street.
               6. That the trees on the southern line of the parcels to be dedicated to the City are preserved; and
               7. That the south side of the street be finished with a sidewalk or that an alternate cross section be approved during
                   the subdivision process and hard surface material that is walkable such as compacted dirt, asphalt, or xeriscape
                   with compacted mulch or rocks be installed.
          Mr. Brierley concluded the Planning Commission reviewed the proposed amendments at the September 6, 2023, meeting
and forwarded a recommendation of approval to the Council with a vote if 8-0. The recommendation was made with the finding
that there is good cause for the street vacation, that neither the public interest nor any person will be materially injured by the
street vacation, and that the vacation will be consistent with the General Plan.

Proposed Business Depot Ogden Lease Revenue Ordinance
Amendments
          Acting Comptroller Sorensen reported Administration is proposing amendments to Ogden Municipal Code § 4-3A-7H,
the code section governing the distribution of BDO lease revenues, to include funding for the annual debt payment for the
Marshall White Center sales tax bonds, the annual payment for CBD Mall RDA debt service, the annual payment for purchase of
Union Station property, additional arts funding for public art maintenance, and increased arts grant funding. Additional
amendments correct grammar, punctuation, and readability. The proposed amendments to the distribution section of the ordinance
are as follows:
              1. Payment of up to $2,000,000 for debt service on Marshall N. White Center Series 2023 Sales Tax Revenue
                   Bonds, FY2023-FY2049;
              2. Payment of up to $1,000,000 for CBD Mall debt until FY2027;
              3. RDA Quality Neighborhoods Initiative allocation of $1,000,000 for five years through FY2026*;
              4. Union Station property purchase payment of $783,000. FY2024 through FY2030;
              5. Public art allocation of $100,000 annually (limited to $500,000 in fund);
              6. Arts maintenance allocation of $2,500 annually;
              7. Up to $150,000 annual for arts grants if not funded in General Fund;
              8. Emergency Repairs ($100,000)*;
              9. Capital Improvement Projects (50% of remaining funds after 1-5 funding is allocated)*;
              10. Community Plan Projects (up to 10% of proceeds not to exceed $150,000)*;
              11. Early Retirement of General Fund debt*;
              12. Other projects or programs as deemed appropriate*.
          Mr. Sorensen noted the items marked with an asterisk signify no change from the prior version of the ordinance.
          Council Executive Director Eller-Smith noted that this amendment does not include bonds that will be issued towards the
end of this year, so another amendment will be needed to include a distribution for the debt service payment on those bonds.

Proposed Fiscal Year 2023-2024 Budget Amendment – Municipal
Building Authority Parking Reserve
          Acting Comptroller Sorensen reported Administration is proposing a Fiscal Year 2023-2024 Budget Amendment totaling
$1,500,000. The recommendation is to transfer $1.5 million from General Fund fund balance to the Municipal Building Authority
to fund a reserve account and miscellaneous expenses associated with the WonderBlock parking structures. The funds are part of
the $4 million granted to the City by the Governor’s Office of Economic Development for the WonderBlock project. A transfer of
$2.5 million was previously transferred for use on the project.

Proposed Fiscal Year 2023-2024 Budget Amendment – Water & Sewer
Improvements for Ya YA Foods Expansion
          Acting Comptroller Sorensen explained Administration is proposing a budget amendment to fund water and sewer
improvements to support the expansion of beverage and liquid foods packaging company Ya YA Foods at Business Depot Ogden
(BDO). The improvements are necessary due to the increased need for water and wastewater (sewer) usage for the company’s
operations. As proposed, the City would fund the improvements up front with the company reimbursing the City for the costs over
an eight-year period at an interest rate of 5.850 percent per annum. The reimbursement agreement sets forth the repayment
schedule and financial guarantees. As outlined in the transmittal documents, the water improvement costs are $3.7 million with the
sewer improvements totaling $500,000 for a total cost of $4.2 million. As per the agreement, Ya YA Foods will pay 10 percent up
front to offset immediate costs and will repay the remaining 90 percent over eight years beginning in January 2024. The proposed
budget amendment would transfer $3.28 million from Water Enterprise Fund Balance and would recognize revenues from the
$420,000 payment (10 percent up front from Ya YA Foods) and transfer the total of $3.7 million to Water Master Plan CIP
Projects for the improvements. The Sanitary Sewer Enterprise Funds currently has fund balance that can be used to pay for the
$500,000 improvement costs. The proposed budget amendment recognizes the repayments of both the Water and Sewer
improvements from January to June of 2024, which total $95,950 and $14,625 respectively. The revenues from the repayment will
be returned to Retained Earnings. The total repayment over the eight-year term on the remaining 90 percent ($3,780,000) with
interest totals $4,797,192.56 with $1,017,192.56 paid in interest.
          Business Development Manager Meess and Assistant City Engineer Nielsen used the aid of a PowerPoint presentation to
expound on the details of the Ya YA Foods expansion; in 2019, Oatly announced Ogden facility to manufacture oat-based
beverage and food products. In 2023, Oatly and Ya YA Foods entered a manufacturing partnership and Ya YA Foods desires to
expand operations in Ogden. Projected outcomes of the expansion include:
               • 101 jobs retained.
               • 302 jobs created.
                        o Average annual wage of $67,100.
                        o 122 percent of average wage in Ogden.
               • $92 million capital investment.
          The expansion will increase Ya YA’s water and sewer needs: 1.4M GPD in water and 819k GPD in wastewater. Ogden
City has ample water capacity to serve project and meet future demand and ongoing system upgrades have reduced water losses.
This project diversifies the City’s water portfolio and generates new revenues that can be invested in further system
improvements. The infrastructure upgrades required for project include $3.7 million in water improvements and $500,000 in
sewer improvements. Local support for the expansion include the following:
               • Reimbursement Agreement
                        o $4.2 million total infrastructure cost
                        o Ogden City to fund capital cost
                        o Ya YA to fund 10% of cost upfront and reimburse remainder over 8 years, with interest
                        o Secured with parent company guaranty
               • Design & Construction Management
                        o Ogden City Engineering expedited project design and will manage construction
                        o Significant in-kind contribution of staff time and resources
                        o Accelerated project timeframe
          State support includes:
               • Governorn’s Office of Economic Opportunity (GOEO) approved state incentive for project
                        o $1.8 million of Economic Development Tax Increment Financing (EDTIF) tax credit
                                  20 percent of new state tax revenues over 10 years
                        o $150,000 Industrial Assistance Account (IAA) grant
                                  Supports job training.
          Ms. Meess concluded the key points of the project are the retention of 101 jobs and the creation of 302 high-quality jobs;
a $92 million capital investment that will increase property tax value; diversification of the City’s water portfolio and generation
of utility revenues that can be invested in system upgrades; and strengthening Utah’s food manufacturing industry.
          Discussion among the Council and Administration staff centered on the long-term benefits of the City’s participation in
the project, the most important being no financial impact to the community. The Council expressed support for similar projects to
this one in the future.

Council/Board/Trustee Business
        Council Executive Director Eller-Smith reviewed the Council’s meeting schedule for the remainder of the month of
November.


         The meeting adjourned at 5:46 p.m.




                                                                           ________________________________________
                                                                           TRACY HANSEN, MMC/CRA
                                                                           CITY RECORDER
________________________________________
ANGELA CHOBERKA, CHAIR

APPROVED: January 16, 2024
