         Minutes of Regular Meeting of Council of Ogden City, Utah, January 7, 2025 Page


       Minutes of the regular meeting of the Ogden City Council held on Tuesday, January 7, 2025 at 6:00 p.m., in the Council
Chambers, and via electronic meeting, on the third floor of the Municipal Building, 2549 Washington Boulevard, Ogden City,
Weber County, Utah.

         Present:          Chair                 Ken Richey
                           Vice Chair            Marcia L. White
                           Council members       Bart E. Blair
                                                 Angela Choberka
                                                 Dave Graf
                                                 Richard A. Hyer
                                                 Shaun Myers

                           Council Executive Director Janene Eller-Smith
                           Council Assistant Executive Director Glenn Symes
                           Council Senior Policy Analyst Steve Burton
                           Council Communications Director Brandon Garside
                           Council Communications Specialist Eric Davenport

         Also present:     Mayor Benjamin K. Nadolski
                           Chief Administrative Officer Mara A. Brown
                           City Attorney Gary Williams
                           Assistant City Attorney Katie Ellis
                           Community and Economic Development Executive Director Jared Johnson
                           Community and Economic Development Assistant Executive Director David Sawyer
                           Community Development Director Jeremy Smith
                           Management Services Executive Director Lisa Stout
                           City Recorder Tracy Hansen
                           Finance Director Justin Sorensen
                           Assistant Finance Director Korahle Jensen
                           Public Services Executive Director Justin Anderson
                           Parks, Cemetery, and Trails Director Monte Stewart
                           Water Utility Director Brady Herd
                           Public Works Operations Director Vince Ramos
                           IT Project Manager Jess McClelland
                           Deputy City Recorder Jason Gould


         At the request of the Chair, all present stood and recited the Pledge of Allegiance led by Vice Chair White.

         A moment of silence was observed.

          Acknowledgements: Vice Chair White stated she watched a video prepared by Council staff highlighting the work done
by the City Council in 2024; she encouraged the public to watch the video as well.
          Council member Choberka acknowledged the City’s support of a Christmas dinner at the Union Station; she appreciated
staff and City officials for their involvement.
          Chair Richey reported that agenda item 5d, the proposed Path to Citizenship Program, has been removed from the agenda
at the request of Administration.

Approval of Minutes
         Council member Graf stated he had reviewed the minutes of the Joint Work Session of November 19, 2024 and found
them to be accurate to the best of his recollection.
         Council member Hyer stated he had reviewed the minutes of the Regular Meeting of November 19, 2024 and found them
to be accurate to the best of his recollection.
         COUNCIL MEMBER HYER THEN MOVED TO APPROVE THE MINUTES AS PRESENTED. MOTION
WAS SECONDED BY COUNCIL MEMBER GRAF, ALL VOTING AYE.

Fiscal Year 2023–2024 Audit Report; and
Fiscal Year 2023–2024 Annual Comprehensive Financial Report.
        The Fiscal Year (FY) 2024 Audit Report and Annual Comprehensive Financial Report (ACFR) came before the Council
for consideration. The ACFR is prepared by the City Administration each year as part of the fiscal year-end budget process and
provides an overall picture of the City’s funds, investments, assets, and debt – information over and above the regular annual
budget. The City’s budget provides a plan for revenues and expenditures, while the ACFR provides an overview of the prior
year’s financial activity. The Audit Report is a summary of the auditor’s review and findings regarding the City’s overall financial
position. The report also identifies any issues with internal controls and may provide findings that will need to be addressed
before completion of the next audit cycle.
          Jeff Miles, Audit Partner with HBME, LLC, briefly discussed the City’s annual audit process and his coordination with
City Administration; he noted City Administration is well aware of the internal controls in place in the City and they are
continuing to monitor those controls. This makes an auditor’s job much easier to perform and the Council should be very proud.
He noted the audit report includes the auditor’s opinion, which is characterized as ‘clean’ or unmodified for FY24. This is the
highest opinion an external auditor can give to a government entity. The auditor also issued three separate reports: Federal Single
Audit for the COVID-19 relief grant funding the City received, all of which must be encumbered by the end of FY25 and spent by
FY26; an audit of internal controls of the City; and state compliance testing for various areas of the City’s budget. There are no
written findings, significant deficiencies, or material weaknesses included in the first two reports; however, in the report regarding
state compliance, there are two findings. The first relates to the City’s unassigned fund balance in the General Fund exceeding 35
percent of budgeted revenues and the second relates to the Weber Morgan Narcotics Strike Force Fund being over budgeted by
$53,000. He deferred to financial staff to address the two findings but indicated that the audit partner feels these findings are fairly
minor. He concluded by congratulating the City’s financial staff on a job well done.
          COUNCIL MEMBER HYER MOVED TO ACCEPT THE FY2024 AUDIT REPORT FOR REVIEW. MOTION
WAS SECONDED BY COUNCIL MEMBER MYERS, ALL VOTING AYE.
          Finance Director Sorensen then recognized the efforts of City staff, especially the staff members of the Comptroller’s
office, in facilitating the audit process and development of ACFR. He noted that the document will be posted on the City’s website
within 24 hours of this meeting and indicated he looks forward to continued discussion and review of the content of both the audit
and ACFR during the February 18, 2025 work session scheduled for that purpose. He reported the City has received the
Government Finance Officers Association (GFOA) Certificate of Achievement for Excellence in Financial Reporting for FY23
and he has applied for the certificate again for FY24. He suggested that the Council review the management analysis of the ACFR,
which summarizes key points of the document and the City’s fund balance position. He concluded the City’s financial position is
currently very healthy and continues to invest in improving the community for the future. He then mentioned the findings
referenced by Mr. Miles, noting that he is preparing a budget amendment that will correct the two issues. The finding related to
the City’s General Fund balance being over the 35 percent threshold imposed by the State of Utah is due to the City realizing
gains on some of its investments, which must be classified as revenue.
          COUNCIL MEMBER MYERS MOVED TO ACCEPT THE FY2024 ACFR FOR REVIEW. MOTION WAS
SECONDED BY COUNCIL MEMBER HYER, ALL VOTING AYE.

Proposed Resolution 2025–1 amending Infill Housing Program Guidelines
         A memo from the Community and Economic Development Department regarding proposed amendments to the Infill
Housing Guidelines came before the Council for consideration. The memo stated the current guidelines allow the Administration
up to $250,000 in property acquisition costs without going before the City Council for approval. The proposed changes include
increasing the property acquisition amount to $400,000 and adding language to clarify accessibility and fair housing requirements
when federal funds are used on a project.
         Community Development Director Smith summarized the memo and used the aid of a PowerPoint presentation to
expound on the proposed guideline amendments; the current guidelines are missing language required by the Federal Department
of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) regarding Fair Housing when federal funds are used for infill housing projects. The
new language clarifies what developers and contractors must do to comply with accessibility and fair housing options throughout
the development process. Additionally, the current guidelines require property acquisitions over $250,000 be brought to the City
Council for approval and Administration is requesting updating that amount to $400,000 to reflect the market. He concluded by
providing information about infill projects that have been completed in the past. For a copy of the presentation in its entirety, see
the information packet for the meeting.
         Discussion among the Council and Mr. Smith centered on whether this infill housing program puts the City in a position
of competing with the private market for residential development projects. Mr. Smith emphasized he does not believe the City is
competing with the private market; the City is focusing on revitalization of a neighborhood and sells homes at cost in order to
target moderate-income home buyers. The City produces homes that the market can or will produce.
         Chair Richey introduced in writing proposed Resolution 2025-1, entitled:
                  “A resolution of the Ogden City Council amending Infill Housing Program Guidelines.”
         ON A MOTION BY COUNCIL MEMBER GRAF AND SECONDED BY COUNCIL MEMBER BLAIR,
RESOLUTION 2025-1 WAS ADOPTED UPON THE FOLLOWING ROLL CALL VOTE: VOTING AYE – COUNCIL
MEMBERS BLAIR, CHOBERKA, GRAF, HYER, MYERS, VICE CHAIR WHITE, AND CHAIR RICHEY. VOTING
NO – NONE.

Proposed Resolution 2025–2 approving the conceptual design of the new
infill subdivision located at 605 North Jackson Avenue
          A memo from the Community and Economic Development Department regarding a concept plan for an infill housing
project at 605 North Jackson Avenue came before the Council for consideration. The memo stated concept plan is for a
residential subdivision consisting of 29 single-family lots with a minimum lot size of 5,000 square feet. The current Infill Housing
Guidelines (2015) require the Council’s approval of final development concepts and financing on projects exceeding 10 homes.
          Community Development Director Smith summarized the memo and used the aid of a PowerPoint presentation to present
the concept plan for the subject property; it includes 29 single family home building lots, completion of curb and gutter and
repaving of Jackson Avenue, new public streets, piping the canal, and providing pedestrian access connecting to the existing
neighborhood. The property was purchased using Quality Neighborhood Initiative funds of $1,075,000, as well as a future Capital
Improvement Plan (CIP) request to fund new public streets, utilities, and completion of Jackson Avenue. The home construction is
to be financed with the existing Synchrony Line of Credit, with proceeds of the sale to be used to pay construction financing,
carrying costs, etc. He presented an illustration of the proposed architecture of the homes in the project area, noting the intent is to
sell the homes to owner occupants through the Home Sweet Ogden program. For a copy of the presentation in its entirety, see the
information packet for the meeting.
          Chair Richey introduced in writing proposed Resolution 2025-2, entitled:
                   “A resolution of the Ogden City Council approving the conceptual design of the new Infill Subdivision located
                   at 605 N. Jackson Avenue.”
          ON A MOTION BY COUNCIL MEMBER HYER AND SECONDED BY COUNCIL MEMBER CHOBERKA,
RESOLUTION 2025-2 WAS ADOPTED UPON THE FOLLOWING ROLL CALL VOTE: VOTING AYE – COUNCIL
MEMBERS BLAIR, CHOBERKA, GRAF, HYER, MYERS, VICE CHAIR WHITE, AND CHAIR RICHEY. VOTING
NO – NONE.
          Council member Graf stated he would like for staff to explore the option incorporating the cost of infrastructure
improvements associated with infill projects into the cost of the development rather than funding those projects through the City’s
Capital Improvement Plan (CIP). He stated this is something that he first discussed during the December 7 work session when this
proposal was made. Mr. Smith stated that it has been challenging to do that in the past and recoup the total cost through the sale of
the home; however, due to increased housing prices, it may be possible to do that for future infill projects and that is something
staff will consider and explore further. For the project at 605 North Jackson, including those costs in the housing cost would
increase the cost of each unit by approximately $83,000; this is a significant amount.

Proposed Ordinance 2025–1 amending the Ogden Municipal Code by
repealing in its entirety and readopting chapter 1–8 to modify campaign
financing disclosure provisions
         A memo from the Management Services Department regarding proposed campaign finance ordinance amendments came
before the Council for consideration. The memo stated the proposed ordinance repeals Municipal Code §1-8 in its entirety and
readopts Municipal Code §1-8 to align with current state code by adopting Utah Code §10-3-208 and §20A relating to elections.
In addition to state code requirements, the proposal sets contribution limits at $5,000 for mayoral races and $1,500 for City
Council races (the levels currently in City code), requires that political advertising contain a disclosure by the responsible
candidate, establishes a cure period for violations, and adds a penalty and enforcement process.
         City Recorder Hansen summarized the memo and used the aid of a PowerPoint presentation to expound on the proposed
code changes:
              • Section 1-8-1 – State Code Adopted:
                       o Adopts Utah Code Section 10-30-208, as amended;
                       o Adopts Utah Code Title 20A, as amended, and as it applies to municipal elections.
              • Section 1-8-2 – Contribution Limitation:
                       o Limits contributions from a single person to $5,000 for a mayoral candidate and $1,500 for a City
                            Council candidate (the same as current City code). The total contribution is for combined
                            contributions for both the primary and general election.
              • Section 1-8-3 Advertisement Disclosures:
                       o Requires that every advertisement or communication that broadcast or published in any medium
                            contain a disclosure of the name of the candidate. This does not apply to yard or street signs, or
                            bumper stickers and pins.
              • Section 1-8-4 Penalty:
                       o City penalties are in addition to those identified in state code;
                       o Requires a violation of City code be corrected within 24 hours of being notified of the violation;
                       o Punishable as an infraction;
                       o Allows private parties to bring a civil action in district court to enforce the campaign finance
                            disclosure requirements found in state code. Allows for the award of costs and attorney fees to the
                            prevailing party
         Brief discussion among the Council and Ms. Hansen centered on enforcement of the ordinance and penalties for
violation.
         Chair Richey introduced in writing proposed Ordinance 2025-1, entitled:
                   “An ordinance of Ogden City, Utah, amending the Ogden Municipal Code by repealing in its entirety and
                   readopting Chapter 1-8 to modify campaign financing disclosure provisions; and by providing that this
                   ordinance shall become effective immediately upon posting after final passage.”
         ON A MOTION BY COUNCIL MEMBER HYER AND SECONDED BY COUNCIL MEMBER BLAIR,
ORDINANCE 2025-1 WAS ADOPTED UPON THE FOLLOWING ROLL CALL VOTE: VOTING AYE – COUNCIL
MEMBERS BLAIR, CHOBERKA, GRAF, HYER, MYERS, VICE CHAIR WHITE, AND CHAIR RICHEY. VOTING
NO – NONE.
         Council member Choberka stated she was pleased that the entire Council agreed not to increase campaign donation
thresholds to be in line with State Code; she feels the $5,000 maximum contribution for Mayor and $1,500 maximum contribution
for a Council member is sufficient for Ogden City. Council member Graf agreed and recognized Ms. Hansen’s enthusiasm for her
job and for the very interesting, historical information she provided over the course of the discussion of this matter.

Public Comments
          Chair Richey reported on the Council’s continued discussion of the proposed Weber Housing Authority (WHA)
permanent housing project at 2325 Madison Avenue; the Council discussed the project with WHA Executive Director Beadles
during this evening’s work session meeting and asked that they reconsider the location of the project. However, action on the
proposed resolution is still scheduled for the January 14, 2025 meeting.
          Heath Satow stated he recently re-listened to the work session meeting of July 12, 2022, during which the Council heard
from its homeless services advocate, Anna Davidson; she shared experiences of those dealing with homelessness in Ogden,
including the story of a woman who died by suicide while waiting for housing. He discussed the statistics presented in that
meeting regarding homelessness and quoted then Council member Nadolski who said, “we need to personalize, not politicize
homelessness”. He stated he could not agree more with that statement. He added that Council member Hyer commented during
that meeting that it would be nice to shift money spent on homeless issues (such as vandalism of City parks) into direct care rather
than mitigating the mess. He stated the WHA permanent housing project does just that at no cost to the City; it saves lives and
taxpayer money and also makes the City safer. He asked the Council to consider a scenario where a neighbor of theirs was on the
street dying and asked them if they would save their neighbor; he then likened the WHA permanent housing project to that
scenario and indicated that human lives are at stake. He stated his task for the Mayor and Council is to find the perfect site for
WHA as soon as possible, well before June of 2025, or let the current proposal move forward.
          Laura Lewis thanked the Council for looking at the WHA matter from both sides; there has been a lot of focus on the
potential impact the housing project could have on current residents, but it is important to look at the broader impact on
neighborhoods and the future of the City. She thinks the Council is doing that in an effort to make a fair decision for all parties
involved.
          Travis Pate stated he is glad that the Council discussed the WHA project during tonight’s work session; the overall need
in the community is clear and he encouraged everyone to focus on kindness and compassion regarding the homeless population of
the community. His opinion is that a sole concentration of homeless housing in one area may be harmful. He believes the site is
critical and he does not like the selected site. He is also concerned about some of the proposed operations of the facility, including
staffing.
          Adrienne Zubiller also addressed the issue of homelessness in the community and asked the Council to consider other
housing opportunities, such as tiny homes or mobile homes that could be used to provide more affordable housing options for
homeless individuals and others.
          Kevin Lundell stated it was nice to see Mr. Smith’s presentation earlier tonight regarding infill housing projects. He
stated that he lives in a home that was part of an infill housing project and indicated that the project has helped to raise the median
income of the East Central area of Ogden. These projects are transforming neighborhoods into something that is considered ‘up
and coming’ and he loves that he can walk his neighborhood and see different people from all walks of life. He stated that he also
listened to tonight’s work session meeting and noted the WHA permanent housing project would be located in his neighborhood.
He stated that Ogden City policies have improved the neighborhood, but they have also displaced people, and the City has a
responsibility to help house those people. He stated he believes his neighborhood can support the project appropriately and he
asked that the Council provide another opportunity for public input prior to any decision on the matter during the January 14
meeting. He encouraged Ogden to lead and show it is different from others; he knows there will be some opposition to the
proposed location of the project, but there are many that are supportive of it as well.
          Candice Burnett stated she is a resident advocate for Lone Peak Nursing and Rehabilitation; she visits the homeless
shelter weekly and is aware of those in need in the community. The WHA permanent housing project will help some of these
people and it is a great start toward helping people in the community who are in desperate need of support.
          Chair Richey stated that he and other Council members have received a great deal of input regarding the WHA
permanent housing proposal; he invited the public to continue to reach out to them prior to next Tuesday’s meeting.
          Vice Chair White stated there is a lot of discussion regarding the WHA project on social media platforms and just
because someone may disagree with another’s opinion does not mean that person should be personally attacked. She asked
everyone involved in the discussion to be kind and listen to others without making personal attacks.

Mayor Comments
        Mayor Nadolski stated that he still believes it is important to personalize and not politicize and he can apply that theory
to many different issues in the Ogden community. The remarks that he hears most frequently regarding the WHA project relates to
its location and he encouraged everyone with that opinion to attend an open house tomorrow at 31st Street and Lincoln Avenue,
which is the location of a project that Ogden City fully endorsed and supported. This project came to fruition because it was done
in a fully collaborative way and that is all he is asking in relation to WHAs current proposal. To say that Ogden City does not do
its part to help support the homeless population is ridiculous; Ogden City actually does more than its fair share and is always
willing to participate in a collaborative project. He then noted that the people that are slated to receive housing at the WHA project
already have housing, though it may be unstable; it is important to understand that the project will not take homeless people off
the street immediately. He then addressed a situation that is ‘near and dear’ to his heart; he cares deeply about youth recreation
and an employee working in that field was recently maligned in a very public way. He stated that anyone who wants to malign
someone should malign him and not the employees of the City who are giving of their time and talents. They are not perfect, but
their heart is always in the right place. He referenced the video mentioned by Vice Chair White at the beginning of tonight’s
meeting and noted that those accomplishments, as well as the future goals and projects of the City, could not be done without the
support of City employees and complaining about them is not the way to get things done.

Council member Comments
        Chair Richey stated he agrees with Mayor Nadolski’s comments about City employees, and he thanked all City
employees for their service.


     There being no further business to come before the Council, COUNCIL MEMBER HYER MOVED THE MEETING
ADJOURN AT 7:09 P.M. MOTION WAS SECONDED BY COUNCIL MEMBER GRAF, ALL VOTING AYE.



                                                                            ________________________________________
                                                                            JASON GOULD
                                                                            DEPUTY CITY RECORDER
________________________________________
KEN RICHEY, CHAIR

APPROVED: February 4, 2025
