         Minutes of Joint Session of Council of Ogden City, Utah, March 12, 2024 Page


        Minutes of the joint work session of the Council of Ogden City, also acting as the Redevelopment Agency, held on
Tuesday, March 12, 2024, at 4:00 p.m., in the Council Work Room, and via electronic meeting, on the third floor of the Municipal
Building, 2549 Washington Boulevard, Ogden City, Weber County, Utah.

         Present:           Chair                    Ken Richey
                            Vice Chair               Marcia L. White (via Zoom; in person at 4:43 p.m.)
                            Council members          Bart E. Blair
                                                     Angela Choberka
                                                     Dave Graf
                                                     Richard A. Hyer
                                                     Shaun Myers

                            Council Executive Director Janene Eller-Smith
                            Council Deputy Director Glenn Symes
                            Council Policy Analyst Steve Burton
                            Communications and Public Engagement Coordinator Brandon Garside
                            Communications Project Coordinator Eric Davenport

         Also present:      Mayor Benjamin K. Nadolski
                            Chief Administrative Officer Mara A. Brown
                            Public Services Director Justin Anderson
                            Community and Economic Development Interim Director Jared Johnson
                            Planning Manager Barton Brierley
                            Planner Haylie Hale
                            Code Enforcement Supervisor Adam Nelson
                            Deputy Business Development Manager David Sawyer
                            Building Services Manager Chris Tremea
                            City Recorder Tracy Hansen

          The purpose of the joint work session was to receive the Visit Ogden Annual Report; discuss a proposed local historical
district – Adams Avenue to Jefferson Avenue between 25th and 26th Street; discuss proposed short term rental ordinance
amendments; receive an administrative update; discuss Council/Board business; and hear Council/Board comments.

Agenda Review
        Chair Richey and members of Council staff reviewed the items listed on the agenda for the City Council meeting
scheduled to begin at 6:00 p.m.

Visit Ogden Annual Report
          The City Council has requested to receive information from local foundations and nonprofit organizations that have a
contractual agreement with Ogden City. These presentations help the Council to become more familiar with the objectives and
efforts of the organizations.
          President/CEO of Visit Ogden, Sara Toliver, used the aid of a PowerPoint presentation to describe Visit Ogden’s
organizational mission and goals, successes and challenges over the past year and any future plans for organization. The
presentation also included the 2023 Annual Report and 2024 Strategic Plan. For a copy of the presentation in its entirety, see the
information packet.

Proposed Local Historical District – Adams Avenue to Jefferson Avenue
between 25th Street and 26th Street
          Planning Manager Brierley explained a petition has been filed by Travis Pate to designate the block between 25th Street
and 26th Street and between Jefferson Avenue and Adams Avenue as a historic resource on the local historic register. Both
individual buildings, or portions thereof, and larger districts may be designated as historic resources on the local historic register.
Mr. Pate’s petition would designate the entire block as a historic district on the local register. With local historic designation,
owners of the property or those within the district would need to comply with standards established in the City’s Landmarks title
and would require Certificates of Historic Appropriateness for significant changes to structures. The petition filed by Mr. Pate
cites the long history of the block and provides background about the homes of many prominent figures important to Ogden and
the larger area.
          Mr. Brierley used the aid of a PowerPoint presentation to summarize the process the City follows after receiving a
petition for historic designation; the proposal was reviewed by the Landmarks Commission and the Commission made a
determination to disapprove of the petition. The Commission’s determination has been forwarded to the Council with a
recommendation of denial as well. The recommendation was based on the limited time and resources available to the
Commission, that the petitioner did not solicit approval from the property owners in the subject area, and that City staff does not
currently have the resources to properly conduct the studies necessary to designate the district as a local historic resource. For a
copy of the presentation in its entirety, see the information packet.
          Chair Richey invited input from Mr. Pate. Mr. Pate discussed his communication with City Administration and Planning
staff; he did not receive clear direction from the City about the type of documentation they needed in order to understand each
property owner’s position on the historic designation. He stated he has spoken with at least five property owners and all of them
are willing to have their property included in a historic district. He is frustrated that he had limited time to provide the information
required by the City; he is proposing historic preservation ideas to the City that will also help to increase tourism in the
community, but his ideas are continually rejected.
          Mr. Brierley stated that the Landmarks Commission would have accepted a petition including property owners’
signatures in order to understand each property owner’s position on the petition.
          Chair Richey noted the Code requires that the Council hold a public hearing if an ordinance is to be considered.
However, since the Landmarks Commission forwarded a recommendation of denial, there is currently no ordinance for the
Council to consider. If the Council does not wish to consider the petition, direction will need to be given to staff on whether to
place the item on a future agenda for consideration and whether to allow for public input on the petition.
          Mr. Pate noted that there is an overlapping petition that includes a significant portion of the amount of property in this
petition and he is party to that petition as well. He also asked that the Council refer the petition back to the Landmarks
Commission for additional consideration and giving him time to provide the requested documents including the position of
property owners on the block.
          Chair Richey noted the other petition will be discussed next week by the Council during their work session and he
expects the Council will make a decision on the two petitions during that meeting.

Proposed Short Term Rental Ordinance Amendments (continued from
February 20, 2024)
          Planning Manager Brierley explained Planning Division staff have proposed a zoning ordinance text amendment
regarding residential vacation rentals. He used the aid of a PowerPoint presentation to expound on the proposed text amendment,
which is meant to address complaints about residential vacation rentals, specifically concerns of parking, noise, and ensuring
owner occupancy for units meant to be owner-occupied. The Planning Commission has recommended that the Council adopt the
proposed ordinance.
          Discussion among the Council and staff centered on the number of complaints the City has received regarding short term
rentals; the types of parking violations that are occurring at short term rentals; and the definition of ‘owner-occupancy’ relative to
a short-term rental property. The Council also heard from Code Enforcement staff regarding specific properties for which they
have received multiple complaints. Additionally, Visit Ogden President/CEO Toliver provided input regarding the importance of
allowing short term rentals to increase and encourage tourism to the Ogden community.
          Chair Richey concluded more discussion of this matter is necessary and Council leadership will reach out to Planning
staff regarding any additional information the Council needs in order to proceed with the decision-making process.

Administrative Update
          Mayor Nadolski provided an update on some matters that are taking his time recently, including the conclusion of the
2024 Legislative Session and participation with committees focused on bringing the Olympics to the State of Utah.
          Public Services Director Anderson then provided the Council with a report regarding recent snow removal activities and
the number of homes for which there was a violation of the recently adopted on-street parking ordinance. He noted 250 warning
notices have been issued by Code Enforcement staff regarding these violations.
          Chief Administrative Officer Brown then reported on a request the City received to rename the Pioneer Days rodeo arena
after the Eccles family; Administration is open to considering the request but would like to work collaboratively with the Council.
She provided information regarding the codified process the City would follow to consider an honorary naming action. Council
members expressed their support for considering the honorary naming action and Ms. Brown indicated she will follow up on the
request and work with Council staff to get an action item scheduled on the matter. She then provided an update regarding the
operations of Spirit Airlines at the Ogden Airport; they are currently operating four days per week and gaining traction. She
concluded by recognizing the City’s Purchasing Specialist, Ruby Puertollano; March is “Procurement Month”, and Ms.
Puertollano recently received the Procurement Certification from the National Institute of Governmental Purchasing. This is a
great milestone in her profession, and she congratulated her on her efforts. It is exciting to have a capable female at the helm of
the City’s procurement division.
          Mayor Nadolski concluded by reporting on request for Weber Area Council of Governments (WACOG) funding for a
joint project with Marriott-Slaterville on the City’s shared boundary; this is responsive to inquiries from Marriott-Slaterville
residents, and he has asked Administrative staff to work with Business Depot Ogden (BDO) staff to plan for the project.

Council/Board Business
         Rain Barrel Program: Council member Choberka thanked Administration for their willingness to reconsider City
participation in the Rain Barrel Program in the State of Utah. Chief Administrative Officer Brown stated Administration is excited
to be participating and noting that the City’s financial contribution is funded through the sustainability budget.
       The meeting adjourned at 5:58 p.m.




                                            ________________________________________
                                            TRACY HANSEN, MMC/CRA
                                            CITY RECORDER
________________________________________
KEN RICHEY, CHAIR

APPROVED: April 9, 2024
