        Minutes of Special Meeting of Redevelopment Agency of Ogden City, Utah, June 6, 2023 Page


        Minutes of the special meeting of the Ogden City Redevelopment Agency held on Tuesday, June 6, 2023 at 6:08 p.m., in
the Council Chambers, and via electronic meeting, on the third floor of the Municipal Building, 2549 Washington Boulevard,
Ogden City, Weber County, Utah.

        Present:          Chair                 Angela Choberka
                          Vice Chair            Ken Richey
                          Board members         Bart E. Blair
                                                Richard A. Hyer
                                                Luis Lopez
                                                Marcia L. White

                          Board Administrator Janene Eller-Smith
                          Board Deputy Administrator Glenn Symes
                          Board Policy Analyst Warren Hallmark
                          Communications and Public Engagement Coordinator Brandon Garside
                          Communication Project Coordinator Eric Davenport

        Excused:          Board member Ben Nadolski

        Also present:     Chief Administrative Officer Mark Johnson
                          Assistant City Attorney Katie Ellis
                          Community and Economic Development Director Brandon Cooper
                          Redevelopment Manager Damen Burnham
                          Airport Manager Bryant Garrett
                          Deputy Business Development Manager David Sawyer
                          Management Services Director Mara Brown
                          Comptroller Lisa Stout
                          Fire Chief Mike Mathieu
                          Public Services Deputy Director Justin Anderson
                          Deputy City Recorder Jason Gould

        At the request of the Chair, all present stood and recited the Pledge of Allegiance led by Vice Chair Richey.
        A moment of silence was observed.
        Acknowledgements:
             • Ballet Folclórico Guadalajara and Mariachi Femenil Estrella de México Performance at Weber State
                 University, tomorrow, June 7th at 7:00 p.m.
             • Special events in Ogden’s downtown over the past weekend, including the closing ceremony for the Marshall
                 White Center.
             • Ogden Music Festival last weekend.
             • Ogden Arts Festival next weekend.

Proposed Resolution 2023-11 approving the Airport Community
Reinvestment Project Area plan and budget; and
Proposed Resolution 2023-12 approving an interlocal agreement with
Weber County authorizing the sharing of tax increment; and
Proposed Resolution 2023-13 approving an interlocal agreement with the
Ogden School District authorizing the sharing of tax increment; and
Proposed Resolution 2023-14 approving an interlocal agreement with the
Central Weber Sewer Improvement District authorizing the sharing of tax
increment; and
Proposed Resolution 2023-15 approving an interlocal agreement with
Ogden City authorizing the sharing of tax increment
         A memo from the Community and Economic Development Department came before the Board to consider approval of
the Airport Community Reinvestment Area (CRA) Plan and Budget as well as Interlocal Agreements with Weber County, Ogden
School District, Central Weber Sewer District, and Ogden City for the sharing of tax increment associated with the CRA. The
memo stated on April 11, 2023, the Redevelopment Authority (RDA) Board set a public hearing for June 6, 2023 on the proposed
plan and budget for the Airport CRA. The Board approved the survey area in February 2019. The area consists of all Airport
property within Ogden City as well as properties north of Hinckley Drive and east of Airport Road. The proposed project area
collection period is 25 years commencing on January 1, 2023. The total proposed budget for the project area is $119,316,079 with
Ogden City, Ogden School District, Central Weber Sewer District, and Weber County participating via the proposed interlocal
agreements.
          Community and Economic Development Director Cooper summarized the memo and used the aid of a PowerPoint
presentation to summarize the history of Ogden Hinckley Airport. Previous growth and development opportunities for the Airport
included general aviation; commercial passenger service; cargo; aerospace and defense; maintenance, repair, and overhaul
(MRO); and aeronautical commercial. He presented a map to highlight the boundary of the proposed CRA and indicated key
projects to be completed at the Airport including:
               • Aerospace/Defense:
                         o Need for off-base, runway-adjacent facilities
               • Project Stamper:
                         o Non-military aerospace company
               • Commercial Hangar Construction:
                         o Non-military aeronautical use companies
               • Expansion of Private Hangar Construction
          Development objectives at the Airport include the following:
               • Remove substandard buildings and encourage highest, best use of land
               • Remove development impediments and incompatible uses
               • Rehabilitate existing structures
               • Upgrade infrastructure: runways, roadways, taxiways, and utilities
               • Strengthen tax base
               • Accommodate aviation demand
               • Facilitate skilled jobs at higher wages
               • Redevelop underutilized property
               • Develop vacant land
               • Support Hill Air Force Base
          Tax increment generated at the Airport will be used for utility upgrades; roadway upgrades and installation; building
construction and upgrades; direct incentive for jobs/development; taxiway upgrades; and other Airport expenses. The public
benefits to be created by the CRA include:
               • Future increased tax revenues
               • Economic stimulation
               • Up to $300-400 million investment potential
               • Short term construction employment
               • Direct employment at higher wages
               • Direct purchase of supplies and services
               • Economic diversification
               • Hill Air Force Base (HAFB) support
          Mr. Cooper summarized the process for selecting participants in the CRA; preference will be given to owners and
commercial airport lessees to undertake improvements or participate with developers. The Agency may encourage others to
acquire property, or the Agency may select non-owner developers by private negotiation, public advertising, bidding or the
solicitation of written proposals. He provided a brief explanation of what a CRA project area does and does not do, after which he
noted the base year valuation of the CRA is $211,920,205. There are four taxing entities participating in the CRA; their
participation is broken down into the following estimates:
               • Maximum County participation - $17 million;
               • Maximum Ogden School District participation - $68,546,740;
               • Maximum Ogden City participation - $28,369,128; and
               • Maximum Central Weber Sewer participation - $5,400,210.
          Chair Choberka indicated that the project area budget includes funding for housing and administration; she noted there
will be no housing on the Airport property and she asked why that has been included in the budget. Mr. Cooper stated that money
will be deposited into a housing fund and based upon State Law, can be used anywhere in the City for qualifying housing
purposes.
          Board member Hyer asked for confirmation that the participating tax entities will continue to receive the current amount
of tax increment they are getting from the property based upon the base year valuation. Mr. Cooper stated that is correct; the base
year valuation will be frozen, and all taxing entities will continue to receive tax revenue based upon that valuation; they will be
dedicating a portion of the increased tax revenue to the CRA for the 25-year period.
          Chair Choberka then noted that the base year valuation is from 2020, but the CRA will not be established until 2023; she
asked if the valuation will be adjusted to capture any increased value from 2020 to 2023. Mr. Cooper stated that valuation was
used for negotiation with the taxing entities; in this case, the valuation has actually decreased since 2020.
          Chair Choberka called for a public hearing on the following proposed resolutions:
          Proposed Resolution 2023-11, entitled:
                     “A resolution of the Ogden City Redevelopment Agency approving the Airport Community Reinvestment
                     Project Area Plan and Budget.”
           Proposed Resolution 2023-12, entitled:
                     “A resolution of the Ogden City Redevelopment Agency approving an Interlocal Agreement between the
                     Ogden City Redevelopment Agency and Weber County authorizing the sharing of tax increment in the Airport
                     Community Reinvestment Project Area.”
           Proposed Resolution 2023-13, entitled:
                     “A resolution of the Ogden City Redevelopment Agency approving an Interlocal Agreement between the
                     Ogden City Redevelopment Agency and the Ogden School District authorizing the sharing of tax increment in
                     the Airport Community Reinvestment Project Area.”
           Proposed Resolution 2023-14, entitled:
                     “A resolution of the Ogden City Redevelopment Agency approving an Interlocal Agreement between the
                     Ogden City Redevelopment Agency and the Central Weber Sewer District authorizing the sharing of tax
                     increment in the Airport Community Reinvestment Project Area.”
           Proposed Resolution 2023-15, entitled:
                     “A resolution of the Ogden City Redevelopment Agency approving an Interlocal Agreement between the
                     Ogden City Redevelopment Agency and Ogden City authorizing the sharing of tax increment in the Airport
                     Community Reinvestment Project Area.”
           Kim Wheelwright stated that he has several questions about this matter; first relates to the boundary of the CRA and
whether the entire City will be taxed to support the project area. He also believes that property owners immediately inside the
Airport and even across the street will forfeit their property as part of this action. The information that has been provided to the
public and to property owners is insufficient and confusing and he asked that the Board table the actions before them tonight to get
more information and to clarify the purpose of this action for the public.
           Travis Pate stated that his biggest concern is that the City is creating another CRA to support other redevelopment areas;
accountability is needed in other redevelopment areas to determine if money has been shifted from one project area to another. If
the increment generated in the Airport CRA is going to go back into the area, he is supportive, but if it is going to be used for
other needs in other areas, he is opposed. He suggested the current and previous City Administrations have played a ‘shell game’
with RDA increment and that must be resolved. Additionally, there are still outstanding matters at the Airport related to ownership
and leasing of hangars and those issues need to be addressed and questions answered.
           Justin Klug stated he is a landowner and business owner on property that is across 31st Street from the Airport. He noted
he received a letter just a month ago about this proposal and that is not enough time to process the information. His business does
not directly benefit from the Airport; he understands the Airport benefits the community, but he is across 31st Street and not part of
the Airport and including his land in the CRA strikes him as a ‘land grab’; he would understand it being included if his property
were bordering a runway. This has been a very negative thing for his business already and he would like that to be considered.
           Board member Lopez inquired as to the name of Mr. Klug’s business. Mr. Klug stated he owns a recycling facility, and
his business will not be easy to move.
           Blake Ballard stated he owns the Chevron on 31st Street and Pennsylvania Avenue and has been there for about three
years. He has invested heavily in the gas station based upon requirements placed on him by the City and he is not on board with
incentivizing and rewarding competing businesses for coming to the area. He asked what protections will be put in place for
existing businesses in the area.
           Paul Sorensen stated he also owns a building across the street from the Airport and he is concerned about increased
property taxes associated with this matter. He referenced Mr. Cooper’s presentation, which indicated a CRA will not increase
taxes, but the CRA project area plan and budget documents indicate that if they are adopted, property tax revenues will increase as
a result of increased property valuation. He asked if that means that property values will increase and if that increase will be
natural or forced. He stated he does not understand the statement that the CRA will not increase taxes and asked for an
explanation.
           Dave Carlson stated that the biggest problem is the optics associated with the Ogden Airport; he has a friend who wants
to buy a hangar at the Ogden Airport, but he is hesitant after witnessing the actions taken by the city against individuals who were
leasing hangar space at the Airport. He noted that he is a lessee, and he has lost his business and livelihood as a result of the
mistruths told by the City Attorney and the Mayor regarding his lease. If the City had just developed the other side of the Airport,
people and businesses would have located there naturally; but, the City ‘shot itself in the foot’ and lost the tax base for the Airport.
He stated he could not get a clear answer from the City after paying his lease payment; he was informed he was in default of his
lease and needed to leave the Airport.
           Dr. April Greener stated she is speaking on behalf of her family; they bought a hangar at the Airport 42 years ago and
still own it today. They are part of the redevelopment process for the Airport. Her mother passed away two months ago and since
then she has tried to learn as much about the Airport and what this new proposal means for their hangar. Tenants do not have
stability in their leases when the City repeatedly rejects new terms and renewal proposals; one of the terms the City is seeking is
that they can take back ownership of the hangar once the age of the property is 40 years without compensation to the owners. This
means an owner can have an immaculate building that complies with all terms of the lease, and the City can repossess it. She
stated that she lived on historic Jackson Avenue for nearly eight years and many of the homes there are over 40 years old and
according to this standard being pushed by the City, those homes could be bulldozed because they are no longer meeting City
standards. The City has damaged the image of the Airport and it needs to rebuild trust with tenants. Moving forward with the CRA
without the support of the Airport tenants is the opposite of rebuilding trust.
           Kelly Crozier suggested the City follow the master plan for the Airport or at least amend it before moving forward with
the CRA. He added that $19 million has been lost at the Airport because of an action voted for by the Council. If that vote were
reversed, the City would have sufficient money for the Airport and the CRA would not be needed.
           Lisa Babbitt stated that she also owns property across from the Airport and has been there well over 40 years; not too
long ago, she was told she would be annexed into Ogden City, and she now believes that it was because of this plan. She was
deceived because she was not given the opportunity to stay in Weber County. Her business operates from her property, and she
cannot afford to relocate. She does not trust that the City will support her business or help her; she believes that the City will force
her out of her property and force her business to close. She does not agree with this plan.
           Chair Choberka inquired as to Ms. Babbitt’s business name. Ms. Babbitt answered Singleton Landscaping.
           Scott Vanderhyde stated he is a property owner on the north side of the Airport, and he is confused as to why the City is
trying to tax a specific area differently than the rest of the City. He has a long history of family members who worked at the
Airport and there have been many disputes between the City, Federal Government, and Forest Service located at the Airport. This
has caused the City to lose many tenants. Additionally, higher lease rates and taxes will force businesses and property owners to
move to other cities. He also noted that the way the City works with Roy City and other property owners is negative and bringing
more air traffic to the area will only make those relationships worse. The Airport has a negative image and reputation and many
businesses have moved to the Provo Airport as a result. The Ogden Airport is landlocked and cannot expand and he does not
expect many business owners to invest in the area because of limited growth opportunities.
           Teresa Bramwell noted Mr. Cooper’s presentation indicated that there will be no eminent domain associated with the
CRA, but the current property owners will be invited to participate in the plan. She asked what would happen if people who are
invited to participate choose not to do so. She asked how they will be invited to participate and how ‘participation’ is defined for
businesses like the recycling business.
           Dale Brandon stated he is present on behalf of Williams International, which is an aerospace manufacturing company on
the north side of the Airport. The proposed CRA would benefit them greatly. In 2001 they built a 100,000 square foot
manufacturing facility addition and they are currently in the process of building another 30,000 square foot addition. They would
like to double their manufacturing capacity in Ogden and this project would help to make Ogden a more attractive site than other
areas that Williams International is considering. He understands that the increased taxes would only be based upon increased
property values due to property improvements. He noted Williams International has proceeded with their improvements without
any incentives from the City and he would like to see further growth in the Ogden area.
           Angel Castillo stated she just returned from North Carolina where she spoke during the Strong Towns National
Gathering; this is a new innovative approach to urban planning. Joe Minicozzi was also in attendance at the Gathering, and he
wrote a report for the City in 2016 explaining how the parts of the tax increment financing (TIF) model should be replicated and
how to make sure that what the City is doing is working. She stated that the Utah State Legislative Auditor General has indicated
the City failed an audit regarding the accounting for TIF funds and this will be further examined in the future because the City’s
‘house is not in order’. It seems dumb to continue to do something without being able to illustrate how it has worked in the past.
The other part that perplexes her about the CRA is that Hill Air force Base (HAFB) has the Military Installation Development
Authority (MIDA) program, which is an enhanced lease use program allowing them to do what the City is trying to do at the
Airport. She asked why a business would locate at the Airport when they already have the option of locating at HAFB at reduced
lease rates. She stated she is not opposed to economic development and the use of TIF, but it should be used sparingly and
deliberately. She noted the TIF benefits of a CRA do not apply to everyone at the Airport or surrounding property owners. If the
City is not making sure that everyone can benefit, it will be negatively impacting people who have made heavy investments in the
community.
           Laura Lewis stated that after listening to the comments from others, she is concerned that people will be forced out of
their property because they will no longer be profitable due to increased taxes. She stated that is essentially the same as eminent
domain, but a different name is being used.
           Jordan Silver stated he is a Wildland Fire Fighter based out of the Ogden Airport and his family owns a hangar on the
Airport. He stated that the CRA documentation is incredibly complicated and vague; he cannot support moving forward until he,
the Council, and others at the Airport can understand the implications. He noted Mr. Cooper indicated that the CRA is predicated
on the Airport Master Plan and the underlying success of the Airport, and he hopes those involved are beginning to see that the
Airport is in a deep crisis and the idea that there will be an influx of private and commercial entities under the current conditions is
a ‘total pipe dream’. He stated there have been some positive discussions about the future of the Airport, but until positive changes
occur, he cannot support the CRA. He has been involved at the Airport for a long time, but if he does not see positive changes at
the end of the current fire season, he will be moving and leaving Ogden.
           Brian Janroy stated he owns multiple businesses and hangars on and off the Airport; while the idea of developing in a
way that provides financial incentive for developers to move forward with their projects in the proposed CRA is a positive step,
the following must be noted: due to the City’s current leases and Title Eight stipulations and the last several years of the City’s
actions and dealings with Airport entities, it is well known and recognized that businesses are leaving the Airport due to the
unfavorable business constraints enacted by Ogden City. Additionally, new businesses have walked away from establishing their
business and partnership with Ogden City after completing due diligence processes. This has been the same story for the last five
to six years. Recently, there have been some positive discussions and while this is encouraging, a Title Eight rewrite is needed
along with leadership level involvement to put the Airport on the path to success. He has spent a fair amount of time trying to
understand the CRA and he understands it will not raise taxes, but property values may increase. He thinks the City would do well
to answer the questions and address the concerns others have asked.
          Heath Satow stated he shares the same concerns as many that have spoken, but mostly he is concerned with how the City
plans for the Ogden Airport to compete with HAFB and with the redevelopment of Union Station. A great deal of focus is being
placed on a sector for which there is already a lot of nearby competition. He suggested the City spend less time trying to bring in
outside developers and, instead, focus on the small businesses that are already here. He acknowledged that taxes are not directly
increased when a CRA is created, but they are indirectly increased, and the City seems to be chasing money to pay the
government instead of looking for things that are important to a community.
          Ed McKenney stated he appreciates the amount of work that has gone into the CRA and the potential benefit it can
provide; he also thanked Mr. Cooper for the recent interactions that he has had with interested parties. He hopes that the Board
will not rubber-stamp this proposal as it is a very complicated matter, and more time must be dedicated to it. In a recent work
session meeting, Board member Nadolski asked Mr. Cooper if the Airport Advisory Committee has reviewed the CRA proposal
and Mr. Cooper’s response was that the Committee would have an opportunity to review the proposal during the public comment
period. That is improper given the complexity of the matter. He asked the Board to think what it will say about them if they are
willing to approve the CRA without a formal review from the Airport Advisory Committee that was assembled to advise the City
on Airport matters. The CRA Plan indicates that the Board may not approve the CRA if more than 51 percent of property owners
object to the adoption. He questioned who the property owners are, how they would go about objecting, and how many property
owners make up the total property included in the area. Also, the CRA vision statement discusses expanding the Airport’s role as
an economic engine in the region through a commitment to serve and cultivate general aviation and commercial service growth in
aeronautical business opportunities. But, with the loss of airlines, businesses, and over 27 aircraft owners due to the expansion of
the Morgan and Brigham City airports, his question is whether the Airport is really an economic engine or something that is
moving in the opposite direction. He inquired as to the plan to change this negative trend before embarking on a very substantial
investment. He asked that the Board not make this another rubber stamp approval without getting answers to these questions and
seeking a review from subject matter experts. They should not approve something for which they do not fully understand the
consequences.
          There being no further persons appearing to be heard, BOARD MEMBER HYER MOVED THE PUBLIC
HEARING BE CLOSED. THE MOTION WAS SECONDED BY VICE CHAIR RICHEY, ALL VOTING AYE.
          Chair Choberka invited Mr. Cooper to address questions asked during the public hearing.
          Mr. Cooper addressed questions about the boundary of the proposed CRA; he presented a map and indicated that all
properties listed in the project area plan are encompassed within the broad orange line on the map. Mr. Cooper noted that Mr.
Wheelwright asked questions about who collects taxes and what taxes are being levied and he explained the Agency has worked
with other taxing entities in the County to negotiate an agreement to allow for the collection of taxes by the RDA instead of each
individual taxing entity. There are no new taxes being levied by any of the taxing entities and, instead, the current taxes are being
diverted to the RDA. Chair Choberka asked if this formula will apply to all property in the City or just the property within the
CRA. Mr. Cooper answered just inside the CRA; property owners outside and adjacent to the CRA will still pay their property
taxes to all the taxing entities in the County. He added that Mr. Wheelwright had other questions and he and his staff will visit
with Mr. Wheelwright to help answer those questions.
          Chair Choberka stated that Mr. Pate asked if the increment collected for the CRA will be invested solely in the project
area or in other areas of the City. Mr. Cooper stated that Mr. Pate was referencing an anomaly in the State RDA laws that allow
RDAs to collect what is called a ‘haircut’ from other taxing districts to be used for a singular purpose. In Ogden’s case, the haircut
was collected from different project areas to be used for the recreation center project in The Junction. The City had 10 districts
that were chosen as haircut districts and for the remaining life of those districts, any increment collected was used to service the
debt at The Junction. That provision of State law no longer exists, and any increment generated in a CRA will remain in the CRA,
other than the 25 percent that can be used for housing purposes in the community. Board member Hyer added that if the CRA
does not generate any increment, it will not have any money. So, it is necessary to increase the value in order to receive increment.
          Board member Hyer asked why the CRA boundary was drawn as it was. Mr. Cooper stated that uses within the Airport
fence are restricted to aeronautical uses and the Agency felt it beneficial to include other properties that are contiguous to the
Airport, which he identified on the map. These properties will be beneficial in the event there is an opportunity to develop uses
that would support the Airport. Vice Chair Richey stated that it is his understanding that inclusion of a property in the CRA does
not necessarily change the zoning of that property. Mr. Cooper stated that is correct; there are a few zoning designations within the
Airport and in the areas surrounding the Airport and the enactment of the CRA Plan would not change the zoning. Board member
Lopez inquired about a few specific properties on the map and asked if they are located within Ogden City limits. Mr. Cooper
stated that one is and the other is not. He noted there was a question about those properties; the owners can continue with the
current use of the property, but being located within the CRA will give them the ability to seek a tax increment incentive to
expand or redevelop their property. If the current owner no longer wants to own the property, they can sell, and a future owner
will have access to the benefits of the CRA as well. He noted that there will be no eminent domain or indirect forfeiture of the
property through increased property taxes. The City has managed 22 redevelopment areas and has a strong precedent of success;
Ms. Castillo indicated that some proof of success is necessary, and the City has proven success through the annual report of all
RDA activities and increased value of the properties within project areas since 2007. The City has seen exponential growth, nearly
three to four times, for the value of property within redevelopment areas when compared to properties outside the redevelopment
areas.
          Chair Choberka noted several business owners asked how the CRA will impact their business, but also how they can
participate in CRA activities. Mr. Cooper reiterated that a property owner can apply for a tax increment incentive; however, if a
business owner simply wants to continue to operate as they are at present, they will not notice an impact or change, but they may
see an increase in their valuation due to renewed investment. This is a wealth generator and should not be viewed negatively. If a
property owner is looking to make a change, the CRA can be used as a financial tool. Chair Choberka asked how properties
outside of the CRA project area could benefit. Mr. Cooper stated that they could realize the benefit of improved infrastructure in
the project area. Chair Choberka stated that in her mind, there is only a possible benefit associated with including a property inside
the CRA. Mr. Cooper agreed; he noted that he feels there are only benefits and little to no downsides for properties included in a
CRA. He then stated it is important to make the distinction between the Board’s role of acting on the CRA and the Council’s role
to regulate Airport operations. Airport administration is a City issue largely managed by the City Administration, and he
acknowledged real concerns of hangar owners and lessees and indicated Administration is constantly working to address them. He
stated those issues are not directly related to the CRA proposal and have very little effect on this matter.
           Chair Choberka referenced Mr. McKenney’s comments; she acknowledged a 30-day public comment period but asked
how the Airport Advisory Committee or other property owners in the CRA have been engaged. Mr. Cooper stated that he
appreciates Mr. McKenney’s comments but noted that his answer to Board member Nadolski during the work session meeting
was that the Agency would be reaching out to the Airport Advisory Committee during the 30-day comment period and that it was
not the intent for them to participate similar to the general public. He stated he reached out and was unable to schedule a meeting
with the Advisory Committee; he transmitted the documents to the Committee and asked that they review them, which they did
and did not provide substantive comments or feedback. He noted staff have had discussions with hangar owners over the last
several weeks as well, but typically for this type of action, all documents are publicly advertised with notice of a public comment
period. He stated his staff has fielded many calls regarding this matter and the communication they received from the City
regarding this proposal.
           Board member Lopez questioned why the Agency was unable to hold a meeting with the Advisory Committee. Mr.
Cooper stated schedules could not be coordinated and there is some turnover on the Committee that made it difficult to get a
quorum of the Committee to attend a meeting. Board Member Lopez stated this appears to be an important issue to the Committee
and he asked how long the Agency tried to schedule a meeting. Mr. Cooper stated he actively tried to schedule a meeting for a few
weeks; he deferred to the Airport Manager, who was involved in trying to schedule the meeting. Airport Manager Garrett stated
that the meeting was originally scheduled for April 12, but a quorum was not available. There are three Committee members
whose terms are expiring, and he has proposed new appointments; he needed four members to constitute a quorum and that was
not possible. The meeting has been rescheduled at least four times since April 12 and a date still has not been set. Mr. Cooper
stated that the Committee was willing to review the document in electronic format and he is grateful to them for all the work they
do.
           Chair Choberka referenced comments about competition with HAFB and MIDA. Mr. Cooper stated that MIDA is an
interesting entity in that it has some of the same rights and powers as an RDA, but it is not as extensive. Their powers are
growing, but MIDA was specifically created for military installation development and to enhance the Extended Use Lease (EUL)
established in 1998. They are focused on creating public/private land use just outside the gate of HAFB and they have done a
wonderful job. However, there are a number of obstacles that exist on HAFB and at the Falcon Hill project in terms of proximity,
access, and costs and the Agency has tried to position the Airport CRA as an alternate product for individuals dealing with those
concerns. He is not sure that the Agency will be pursuing the same entities or products as HAFB as there is a whole list of uses
applicable to the Airport that would never be permitted on HAFB or at Falcon Hill. The bottom line is that it is a different product
for a different type of customer.
           Board member White asked Mr. Cooper to address the differences between the old Airport RDA boundary and the new
Airport CRA boundary. Mr. Cooper stated that the use of terms is an unfortunate coincidence; the use of the term RDA simply
refers to the Mayor’s designation of a certain geographical boundary that is up for redevelopment. The CRA is an actual Agency
term and an officially created project area. The two may overlap, but they are entirely different. The CRA is a financial tool to
incentivize future development. The RDA relates to a policy that targets an area for development and defines terms that hangars
within the Airport may be subject to.
           Chair Choberka inquired as to the next steps and how people can reach out if they still have questions about the CRA.
Mr. Cooper stated he and his staff are happy to provide as much access and information as possible regarding this matter.
           Vice Chair Richey asked Mr. Cooper to address how the CRA conflicts with the Airport Master Plan. Mr. Cooper stated
he does not agree with that statement; the Master Plan may not be followed perfectly, but it offers strong guidance for activities at
the Airport and the CRA is meant to augment the Plan and facilitate the strategies of the Plan.
           Board member White asked Mr. Cooper if he has spoken with the taxing entities that are subject to the interlocal
agreements. Mr. Cooper stated not only has he spoken with them, but each of the entities has already approved the agreements and
they understand the implications of them. Board member White stated that means that the taxing entities also see value in this
proposal, to which Mr. Cooper answered yes.
           Discussion among the Board and staff centered on the need to provide information to the public regarding the process of
creating a CRA and the benefits of the tool, with the emphasis on making the information as easy to understand as possible. There
was also a focus on the public outreach specific to the current proposal.
           Board member Lopez inquired as to the urgency of this matter and why it must be acted upon tonight. Chair Choberka
indicated a public hearing has been noticed for tonight; if action is not taken tonight and another public hearing is to be held, the
City would need to re-notice the hearing. Board Administrator Eller-Smith added the Board could consider an action to continue
the public hearing or table action on the proposed resolution to a date certain and re-noticing the public hearing would not be
necessary. Board member Lopez asked for an explanation from City Administration regarding the urgency of the matter; he asked
if they are comfortable with the Board considering a motion to table action on the matter. Mr. Cooper stated that if the Board
tables action, he would be happy to reengage with the public regarding the proposal; the State’s process for creating a CRA is very
prescriptive and Agency staff has followed all requirements and addressed all the comments that have been provided during the
public comment period. Chair Choberka asked how long it would take to schedule a meeting with the Airport Advisory
Committee. Mr. Cooper stated he is unsure; he noted such a meeting would be a single event and he would not present any new or
different information; he expects the conversation with the public or the Committee would be the same as it has been, though there
may be a different understanding. Board member Lopez stated he is interested in honoring the individuals who took the time to
speak tonight, and he would prefer more than just a meeting with the Committee to address their concerns. He is unsure whether
the discussion that has taken place since the closure of the public hearing has helped to address their concerns or answer their
questions and while he feels comfortable approving the CRA, he is uncomfortable that it is not possible to continue public
dialogue. He added that approving the CRA without a recommendation from the Advisory Committee feels ‘weird’ to him. Mr.
Cooper stated that he can read into the record an email from the Chair of the Advisory Committee that indicates they have no
concerns. Chair Choberka clarified Mr. McKenney is not a member of the Advisory Committee any longer. Mr. Cooper stated that
is correct.
           Chief Administrative Officer Johnson stated Administration encourages the Board to take action tonight; a lot of work
has been done to this point to get the Airport ready for development. The City has also been engaged with the different taxing
entities for a lengthy period of time; this is not an action that is being recommended after just a few weeks of discussion and
effort. It is his guess that the Board would table the proposal tonight but would hear the same concerns and feedback in a few
weeks when they choose to take action on the matter. Board member Lopez stated he would prefer to engage with the individuals
that spoke tonight. Board member Hyer stated he agrees with Mr. Johnson that the concerns that have been shared will still be
present in two weeks. He added that some of the information shared during the public hearing has ‘clouded’ the issue and made
some believe that the Board is entering into uncharted territory and that they do not know what they are doing. He stated that is
not the case and, while he sympathizes with Board member Lopez’s position, he is comfortable taking action tonight. Board
member Blair agreed and stated he appreciates Mr. Cooper’s willingness to meet with people who are concerned and believes he
will still agree to meet with them even if the Board takes action tonight. Chair Choberka indicated she is comfortable proceeding
tonight as well. Vice Chair Richey agreed, but noted he would like Mr. Cooper to forward the email from the Airport Advisory
Committee Chair to the Board.
           Board member White asked if the City has made contact with Roy Mayor Dandoy. Mr. Cooper answered yes and noted
the City is in regular conversation with Mayor Dandoy. Board member Hyer stated that Mayor Dandoy is a member of the Airport
Advisory Committee, and he is aware of and comfortable with this proposal. He added that the governing bodies of the other
taxing entities have also received this same presentation and have approved their interlocal agreement; he would hope that would
carry some weight with people who are concerned about this issue.
           Board member Lopez stated he wished there was an opportunity for the people who have shared concerns to provide
additional feedback following the Board’s deliberations; it is very disrespectful that they are not allowed to follow-up before a
vote is taken.

         BOARD MEMBER HYER MOVED RESOLUTION 2023-11 BE ADOPTED, AND THE CHAIR BE
AUTHORIZED TO SIGN THE SAME. MOTION WAS SECONDED BY BOARD MEMBER BLAIR, WITH THE
FOLLOWING ROLL CALL VOTE: VOTING AYE – BOARD MEMBERS BLAIR, HYER, WHITE, VICE CHAIR
RICHEY, AND CHAIR CHOBERKA. VOTING NO – BOARD MEMBER LOPEZ. Board member Nadolski was not
present when this vote was taken.
         Board member Lopez reiterated his previous comments about his disappointment regarding limited interaction with the
public regarding this matter; he feels this is a good project, but he is disappointed with the public interaction tonight.
         BOARD MEMBER BLAIR MOVED RESOLUTION 2023-12 BE ADOPTED, AND THE CHAIR BE
AUTHORIZED TO SIGN THE SAME. MOTION WAS SECONDED BY BOARD MEMBER HYER, WITH THE
FOLLOWING ROLL CALL VOTE: VOTING AYE – BOARD MEMBERS BLAIR, HYER, WHITE, VICE CHAIR
RICHEY, AND CHAIR CHOBERKA. VOTING NO – BOARD MEMBER LOPEZ. Board member Nadolski was not
present when this vote was taken.
         BOARD MEMBER HYER MOVED RESOLUTION 2023-13 BE ADOPTED, AND THE CHAIR BE
AUTHORIZED TO SIGN THE SAME. MOTION WAS SECONDED BY VICE CHAIR RICHEY, WITH THE
FOLLOWING ROLL CALL VOTE: VOTING AYE – BOARD MEMBERS BLAIR, HYER, WHITE, VICE CHAIR
RICHEY, AND CHAIR CHOBERKA. VOTING NO – BOARD MEMBER LOPEZ. Board member Nadolski was not
present when this vote was taken.
         VICE CHAIR RICHEY MOVED RESOLUTION 2023-14 BE ADOPTED, AND THE CHAIR BE
AUTHORIZED TO SIGN THE SAME. MOTION WAS SECONDED BY BOARD MEMBER BLAIR, WITH THE
FOLLOWING ROLL CALL VOTE: VOTING AYE – BOARD MEMBERS BLAIR, HYER, WHITE, VICE CHAIR
RICHEY, AND CHAIR CHOBERKA. VOTING NO – BOARD MEMBER LOPEZ. Board member Nadolski was not
present when this vote was taken.
         BOARD MEMBER HYER MOVED RESOLUTION 2023-15 BE ADOPTED, AND THE CHAIR BE
AUTHORIZED TO SIGN THE SAME. MOTION WAS SECONDED BY BOARD MEMBER BLAIR, WITH THE
FOLLOWING ROLL CALL VOTE: VOTING AYE – BOARD MEMBERS BLAIR, HYER, WHITE, VICE CHAIR
RICHEY, AND CHAIR CHOBERKA. VOTING NO – BOARD MEMBER LOPEZ. Board member Nadolski was not
present when this vote was taken.

Public Comments
          Travis Pate referenced an item on tonight’s City Council meeting agenda dealing with the budget; the Mayor’s proposed
budget includes $750,000 to pay a consultant to rewrite the City’s General Plan, yet there has been no accountability for the
current General Plan. He suggested approval of the tentative budget, but that a message be sent to Administration that the Council
will demand accountability for the General Plan before rewriting it. He then expressed his disappointment regarding the Board’s
action to approve the Airport CRA; the work was only halfway completed by Administration before a proposal was made to the
Board and he views that as being disrespectful to the Board and the public.
          Angel Castillo also expressed her concern about the Board’s approval of the Airport CRA; she specifically cited the need
for due diligence, understanding of the fiscal impact, and completion of a feasibility study. The State Auditor has asked for those
steps to be completed for all redevelopment areas. The Economic Development Director of Weber County also had concerns
about the CRA and is currently changing Weber County’s rules to require due diligence, fiscal impact, and feasibility study for
these types of projects in the future. The Interlocal Agreement with Weber County was approved before the new Director was
hired and the School District approved their Interlocal Agreement because the County approved theirs. She reiterated she is not
opposed to economic development or CRAs, but she is concerned the Board is moving forward without all voices represented. She
finds it interesting that Mr. Cooper did not tell the Board how Roy Mayor Dandoy felt and simply stated that the City is in
discussion with Roy City. She reiterated the Board must perform its due diligence before giving away the City’s money.
          Teresa Bramwell also compared the Airport CRA process to a similar RDA process concerning her neighborhood in the
area of 25th Street and Monroe Boulevard; eminent domain was on the table for nine blocks of single-family homes in the area, but
those property owners pursued litigation regarding the matter. She stated that absolutely nothing has happened since then and the
area is now a crime infested ghetto. She is worried about what will happen at the Airport because she is worried that when the
Agency ‘gets its hands on property’, it becomes a ‘cash cow dump’ where no one wants to be. This is what her neighborhood has
become, and she cannot see how it will be transformed into anything functional that will generate revenue. She would love to hear
Mr. Cooper’s plans for her neighborhood and to have some input. She has been attending City meetings for nearly eight months
and has not heard any positive discussion about the RDA project near her property.
          Austin Raymond stated he is concerned about the transparency and perception of integrity of Ogden City government. He
finds it hard to trust what the Police Department is doing given the recent attention on the point system for traffic citations used to
rank officers. It appears something disingenuous is occurring to allow the City to avoid paying officers more money and he would
like to see more work on the part of the City to improve the perception of integrity and transparency of City dealings.
          Laura Lewis thanked Board member Lopez for his comments and for expressing how the public feels about the Board’s
refusal to listen to the public. The Board may be confident in what they are doing because they have much more information than
the public has, but it would not have hurt to delay the matter for two weeks to allow Mr. Cooper to meet with property owners to
give them some confidence in the future of their property. She leaves each meeting where the Board votes on something
significant, feeling disappointed in the failure to listen to the public. People take time to show up because they care what is
happening in their community and they would like for someone to start listening to them.
          Grant Brookland communicated his concerns about speeding on 29th Street and in City neighborhoods in general. He has
shared his concerns with several City employees and Department Directors, but he would like to thank Board member Nadolski
for returning an email within days and for also following up with a phone call and a personal visit to the area he is concerned
about. He also appreciates the City installing a stop sign at the bottom of the hill on Taylor Avenue and 29th Street, but it has not
made much of a difference unfortunately. The reason he attended tonight’s meeting is because Ogden High is holding a track
camp at the school, and they are in danger due to the high rates of speed on the roads surrounding the school. There are also
potholes on the street and the City has placed traffic cones around them and people are swerving around them and almost hitting
pedestrians, pets, and parked cars. This has been the case for the past two months and something must be done. As a resident it is
disheartening to see this activity in his neighborhood; he is disappointed that the Public Services Department and Police
Department have not responded to his input, but he is trying to give them the benefit of the doubt. He is a trained urban planner
with 13 years’ experience, and he understands how cities are designed and should function. It is concerning to see how the City
has allowed its streets to be overtaken by speeding motorists and he fears that something will eventually happen. He suggested
there are very easy solutions, and he would be happy to meet with any City official to walk them through his ideas.
          John Thompson addressed the Mayor’s proposed budget; he is asking for $5,000 for the John Moses Browning Firearms
Museum and he has submitted a formal request to the City for that purpose. He apologized for failing to get with City
Administration to get his request included in the Mayor’s proposed budget. He does not want to detract from the Merci Car
project, but Mr. Browning has more significance in Utah and to the world than the Merci Car. He noted the Car is being called a
railroad car, but it never travelled a foot on a United States railroad line. However, Mr. Browning’s contributions are very
significant and providing adequate funding to the museum is more important and should have greater prominence in the budget.
          Rene Felker stated he is a hangar owner at the Ogden Airport; he does not disagree with the CRA creation, but the tax
basis for the project area was taken from 2020 and values have actually depreciated since then. He stated that there will be no
earned income to generate tax increment for several years and he does not see that changing unless the City makes drastic changes
to Title Eight of the Ogden City Code.
          Heath Satow addressed Mr. Cooper’s statement that his comments about indirect taxes are a falsehood. He stated he
resents the remarks and regrets that Board member Hyer felt the need to represent some of the public’s comments as clouding the
issue. He stated that those that spoke tonight live in Ogden, they are impacted by these actions, they are not paid to attend
meetings, and their concerns are not baseless. He does not know if there is a lack of understanding, but it is a true statement that
tax increment financing (TIF) is not a ‘free lunch’; it is a very useful tool and is great for helping a blighted property, but it is not
the only tool the City has and the properties at the Airport are not even remotely blighted. The City will pay for the TIF packages
through greater strain on infrastructure and schools while waiting for increased revenue associated with increased value several
years into the future. Residents will foot the bill to pay for infrastructure repairs or new schools due to the strain that is being put
on them by the CRA; he would like for the Board to at least ask for an explanation of the downsides of a CRA project.
          Ed McKenney thanked Board member Lopez and indicated that more people like him are needed on the Board. He also
addressed the contracts between the City and hangar owners/lessees at the Airport, which are very problematic and causing a great
deal of stress for the parties to the agreement. He asked when those individuals will have the opportunity to meet with City
Administration to address these critical issues.

Executive Director Comments
          In Executive Director Caldwell’s absence, Chief Administrative Officer Johnson addressed Ms. Bramwell and clarified
that there is no CRA or RDA project area near her property; one was proposed, but it was withdrawn and never executed. He then
noted that he finds it interesting that today the City was encouraged to increase police enforcement, but a few weeks ago was told
that officers are being forced to write traffic tickets. He stated the City is trying its best to perform adequate enforcement with the
police force it has; the City could add 100 more police officers and still would not be able to perform enforcement on all streets
where children live. Today, officers were tasked with responding to a police officer involved shooting and he would like to pay
tribute to them and offer his thoughts, though he does not have complete information about the event. He will speak to the Police
Department about requests for increased enforcement on 29th Street and the roads around Ogden High School. He noted he agrees
that having cones around potholes for months is unacceptable and will have someone dispatched to the area tomorrow. He stated
the City is working hard on pothole repairs given the damage caused over the past winter and he hopes people will do their best to
avoid potholes and have patience with the City as they work to repair them. He then noted that he appreciated the dialogue
regarding the Airport CRA; one thing that is lost in the discussion, however, is that if redevelopment is not pursued, there will be
no new property tax revenue for the taxing entities in the community. All taxing entities realize the benefits created by
redevelopment areas and that is while they are willing to invest tax increment to make the projects successful. He stated the City
has seen a positive impact due to redevelopment activities and the City has improved dramatically in the past 20 years; the amount
of change he has seen in the City since he was initially elected to the City Council is remarkable and most of that positive change
is due to investment into the City. There have been many elected officials over the years that have contributed to the growth of the
City.
          Chair Choberka noted that Executive Director Caldwell is visiting with the injured police officer in the hospital. Mr.
Johnson stated that is correct and that is where he should be tonight.

Board member Comments
          Board member Lopez stated he agrees with Mr. Johnson’s comments about the positive impact of redevelopment
activities and tools like the CRA.
          Boad member Hyer discussed the length of the process to create something like a CRA; the Board gets a great deal of
information about the project over the course of several months, but the public may not have access to that same information and
that is why they feel that these matters are being rushed. This is a flaw in the process, but not with the end product. He wished
there was a way to have more input earlier and he wondered if the Board could work on an amendment to the process to address
the concerns that have been raised tonight. He is happy that Mr. Cooper is willing to meet with the public and property owners
that will be impacted by the CRA. Board member Lopez thanked Board member Hyer for acknowledging the flaw in the process;
he feels the Board is at a disadvantage given that they are part time elected officials and their interaction with the public on these
types of issues is limited. It can be hard to increase interaction, but it is not impossible. He wonders how hard the City’s elected
leaders have tried to improve processes, however, and that is disappointing to him.
          Board member White referenced Angel Castillo’s comments about the audit report concerning the City’s redevelopment
activities; she would challenge anyone to read the report and draw the conclusion that the City is not performing as it should be.
Actions are transparent and the City works hard to explain very difficult processes to the Board and to the public; reporting is
complete and accurate, and she believes the City is abiding by best practices. She does not agree with the statements that were
made about the audit report and would love to have a conversation with anyone about that issue.
          Vice Chair Richey stated he is disappointed that some people feel they were not heard simply because the vote on the
CRA did not go how they wanted it to. Very rarely does something appear on a meeting agenda without having first been
discussed in a work session, which typically includes a full presentation and review of detailed information. Those meetings and
the supporting materials are public, and it may be that people are unaware of that step in the process or the ability to view
recordings and listen to audio of those meetings. Chair Choberka agreed; some people see a public hearing advertised on a
meeting agenda and they think that is the only opportunity to give input or be involved; however, there are earlier opportunities to
provide input and it is necessary to communicate those opportunities to the public. She stated she is always happy to meet with
and discuss these issues with any member of the public at any time.


     There being no further business to come before the Agency, VICE CHAIR RICHEY MOVED THE MEETING
ADJOURN AT 8:47 P.M. MOTION WAS SECONDED BY BOARD MEMBER HYER, ALL VOTING AYE. Board
member Nadolski was not present when this vote was taken.



                                                            ________________________________________
                                                            JASON GOULD
                                                            DEPUTY CITY RECORDER
____________________________________________
ANGELA CHOBERKA, CHAIR

APPROVED: February 13, 2024
