Minutes of Special Meeting of Council of Ogden City, Utah, January 9, 2024 Page  FORMTEXT      


Minutes of the special meeting of the Ogden City Council held on Tuesday, January 9, 2024, at 6:00 p.m., in the Council Chambers, and via electronic meeting, on the third floor of the Municipal Building, 2549 Washington Boulevard, Ogden City, Weber County, Utah.

Present:	Chair	Angela Choberka
	Vice Chair	Ken Richey 
	Council members	Bart E. Blair
	Dave Graf
	Richard A. Hyer
	Shaun Myers
		
Council Executive Director Janene Eller-Smith 
		Council Deputy Director Glenn Symes
		Council Policy Analyst Steve Burton
Communications and Public Engagement Coordinator Brandon Garside
Communications Project Coordinator Eric Davenport

	Excused:	Council member Marcia L. White

Also present:	Mayor Benjamin K. Nadolski
		Chief Administrative Officer Mara A. Brown
		City Attorney Gary Williams
		Community and Economic Development Deputy Director Jared Johnson
		Deputy Business Development Manager David Sawyer
		Public Services Director Jay Lowder
		Public Services Deputy Director Justin Anderson
		Assistant City Engineer Taylor Nielsen
		Recreation Manager Edd Bridge
		Public Operations Manager Vince Ramos
		Golf Manager Todd Brenkman
		Administrative Assistant III Lisa Brinkerhoff
		Management Services Director Lisa Stout
		Comptroller Justin Sorensen
		Deputy Comptroller Korahle Jensen
		Planning Manager Barton Brierley
City Recorder Tracy Hansen

At the request of the Chair, all present stood and recited the Pledge of Allegiance led by Vice Chair Richey.

A moment of silence was observed.  

Acknowledgements: Chair Choberka stated next Monday is Martin Luther King, Jr. Day and many community partners have worked to organize a day of service, starting with a breakfast at Union Station and march to the Ogden Amphitheater. 

Recognizing Jay Lowder, the retiring Ogden City Public Services Director, for his many years of service to the community
A memo from Council staff regarding recognition of retiring Public Services Director Lowder for his many years of service to the community came before the Council for consideration.  Vice Chair Richey read the certificate of recognition issued by the Ogden City Council and Mayor Nadolski and presented Mr. Lowder with the certificate. 
Mr. Lowder thanked the Mayor and Council for recognizing him, it means a tremendous deal to him. He never thought he would have the opportunity to work for such a great organization with so many great people; it provided his family with everything thing they needed and every opportunity they could ask for. He stated that he has accomplished nearly everything on his bucket list except for two things; one was to visit the Virgin Islands and he is doing that at the end of this month and the other was to leave a community better than he found it and he hopes he has accomplished that through his employment with Ogden City. He has worked with multiple Mayors and Council members, and it is time for ‘new blood’ at this time. 
Council members and the Mayor commented on their own relationships with Mr. Lowder and wished him well in his retirement. 

Fiscal Year 2022-2023 Audit Report; and
Fiscal Year 2022-2023 Annual Comprehensive Financial Report
The Fiscal Year (FY) 2023 Audit Report and Annual Comprehensive Financial Report (ACFR) came before the Council for consideration. The ACFR is prepared by the City Administration each year as part of the fiscal year-end budget process and provides an overall picture of the City’s funds, investments, assets, and debt – information over and above the regular annual budget. The City’s budget provides a plan for revenues and expenditures, while the ACFR provides an overview of the prior year’s financial activity. The Auditor’s report is a summary of the auditor’s review and findings regarding the City’s overall financial position.  The report also identifies any issues with internal controls and may provide findings that will need to be addressed before completion of the next audit cycle.   
Deputy Comptroller Jensen recognized the efforts of City staff, especially the staff members of the Comptroller’s office, in facilitating the audit process and development of ACFR. She noted that the document will be posted on the City’s website within 24 hours of this meeting and indicated she looks forward to continued discussion and review of the content of both the audit and ACFR during a February work session scheduled for that purpose. She suggested that the Council review the management analysis, which summarizes key points of the document and the City’s fund balance position. 
Aaron Hixon, Audit Partner with HBME, LLC, briefly discussed the City’s annual audit process and his coordination with City Administration; he noted City Administration is well aware of the internal controls in place in the City and they are continuing monitoring those controls. This makes an auditor’s job much easier to perform and the Council should be very proud. He noted page 21 of the audit report includes the auditor’s opinion, which is characterized as ‘clean’ or unmodified for FY23. This is the highest opinion an external auditor can give to a government entity. There are no written findings for the City, and he congratulated the City’s financial staff on a job well done. 
Vice Chair Richey discussed his participation on the audit committee and indicated he was impressed by the efforts of the Comptroller’s office and the audit partner. 
COUNCIL MEMBER HYER MOVED TO ACCEPT THE FY2023 AUDIT REPORT FOR REVIEW.  MOTION WAS SECONDED BY VICE CHAIR RICHEY, ALL VOTING AYE. Council member White was not present when this vote was taken. 
COUNCIL MEMBER HYER MOVED TO ACCEPT THE FY2023 ACFR FOR REVIEW.  MOTION WAS SECONDED BY COUNCIL MEMBER BLAIR, ALL VOTING AYE. Council member White was not present when this vote was taken. 
Council member Blair thanked the City staff for their hard work to ensure the City’s compliance with all state and federal financial regulations. 

COUNCIL MEMBER HYER MOVED TO AMEND THE AGENDA TO MOVE ITEM EIGHT, PUBLIC COMMENTS, AHEAD OF ITEM SEVEN, SNOW REMOVEL ORDINANCE AMENDMENTS. MOTION WAS SECONDED BY COUNCIL MEMBER BLAIR, ALL VOTING AYE. Council member White was not present when this vote was taken. 

Approval of Minutes
Council member Blair stated he had reviewed the minutes of the closed session of February 2, 2023, regular meeting of May 23, 2023, work session of June 20, 2023, joint work session of July 18, 2023, and the regular meeting of August 1, 2023 and found them to be accurate to the best of his recollection.  
Vice Chair Richey stated he had reviewed the minutes of the regular meeting of June 20, 2023 and found them to be accurate to the best of his recollection.  
Council member Hyer stated he had reviewed the minutes of the work session of May 23, 2023, closed session of May 23, 2023, work session of May 30, 2023, joint work session of June 13, 2023, and the special meeting of June 13, 2023 and found them to be accurate to the best of his recollection.  
COUNCIL MEMBER HYER THEN MOVED TO APPROVE THE MINUTES AS PRESENTED.  MOTION WAS SECONDED BY VICE CHAIR RICHEY, ALL VOTING AYE. Council member White was not present when this vote was taken. 

Proposed Ordinance 2024-1 modifying the Ogden Municipal Code relative to rules for lot and parcel combinations and adjustments, subdivision amendments, and vacations to conform to State law and streamline procedures
A memo from the Community and Economic Development Department regarding proposed subdivision ordinance amendments came before the Council for consideration.  The memo stated as required by SB174, the City’s Administration is proposing changes to Title 14, Subdivision Regulations, to comply with state code. Although the Council is not involved in the review and approval of subdivisions, Title 14 is a part of the City’s development code and therefore any amendments require a recommendation by the Planning Commission and approval by the City Council. The changes include updates to two major sections of the Code. The first section is the subdivision review process itself. This includes definition updates to include and clarify terms related to subdivisions and subdivision-related approvals, typographic and technical changes, and several more significant process and policy changes (discussed below). The second section proposed for update involves elements related to subdivisions and property, but which are not directly related to the subdivision review process. This includes regulations for parcel and lot combinations, parcel boundary and lot line adjustments, subdivision plat amendments, dedication plats, plat vacations, and street and alley vacations.  
Planning Manager Brierley summarized the memo and used the aid of a PowerPoint presentation to summarize the proposed ordinance amendments; for a copy of the PowerPoint presentation in its entirety, see the information packet for the meeting.
 Chair Choberka introduced in writing proposed Ordinance 2024-1, entitled:
“An ordinance of Ogden City Utah, amending the Ogden Municipal Code by amending Section 14-1-4 to revise and adopt additional definitions for limited residential subdivisions; by amending Section 14-1-10 to amend subdivision appeals procedures; by amending Chapter 14-2 to amend various provisions relating to limited residential subdivisions; by repealing and readopting Chapter 14-7 in its entirety regarding parcel and lot combinations; by adopting a new Chapter 8 to Title 14 regarding parcel boundary and lot line adjustments; by adopting a new Chapter 9 to Title 14 regarding subdivision amendments; by adopting a new Chapter 10 to Title 14 regarding dedication plats and non-subdividing plats; by adopting a new Chapter 11 to Title 14 regarding vacation of dedicated land; and by providing that this ordinance shall become effective immediately upon posting after final passage.”
	Chair Choberka then called for public input regarding the proposal.
Travis Pate stated that the aspect of an additional layer of review for an individual to apply to have a matter heard by the Board of Adjustments is positive, but he suggested the fees for applying for such a hearing be reviewed and lowered. 
No additional persons came forward to be heard. 
Chair Choberka invited Mr. Brierley to address Mr. Pate’s comments. Mr. Brierley stated that the fee to appeal to the Board of Adjustments is $690 and that is less than half the actual cost of facilitating the appeal. It costs a great deal of time and staff resources to evaluate an appeal that will be heard by that Board. 
	ON A MOTION BY COUNCIL MEMBER HYER AND SECONDED BY COUNCIL MEMBER MEYERS, ORDINANCE 2024-1 WAS ADOPTED UPON THE FOLLOWING ROLL CALL VOTE: VOTING AYE – COUNCIL MEMBERS BLAIR, GRAF, HYER, MEYERS, VICE CHAIR RICHEY, AND CHAIR CHOBERKA.  VOTING NO – NONE. Council member White was not present when this vote was taken. 

Public Comments
	Heath Satow asked for the status of a few projects: construction of a building on 25th Street associated with a company called Q Factor, which is a company that has received Redevelopment Agency (RDA) incentives from the City. He asked if the City is still working with them on other projects given that they have been found to be an unreliable builder and are bankrupt. 
	Angel Castillo stated that it is problematic to move public comments ahead of any presentation about the snow removal ordinance. She appreciates the effort that has been made to review how the proposed ordinance amendments will impact the residents, but there is some disparity in the survey that was conducted because it did not capture a response from all demographic groups. Just 205 local people participated in the survey, and this represents just one-third of one percent of the entire population of the City. This is far from best practice when it comes to conducting a survey. While some exceptions are included in the proposed ordinance, there are many people who will not have anywhere off-street to park their vehicle during a snow event. She is very concerned about how they will be impacted. 
	Travis Pate wished to thank Jay Lowder for his service to the community, particularly his efforts on the historic preservation of Jefferson Avenue. He looks forward to working with new members of City Administration on many different vital projects in the community. He addressed the snow removal ordinance and stated that if the ordinance is not an economic generator, it should not be enacted and enforced. He suggested the City work with residents rather than penalize them. 
	Linda Sanchez offered a ‘shout out’ to former Council member Luis Lopez; she loved working with him and will miss him tremendously. She addressed the newly seated Council members and reminded them of their oath of office; she appreciated Council member Graf’s comments about Ogden entering its next great phase of its storied history and she will heed his encouragement to participate in public meetings. She will also heed Council member Myers’ suggestion to ‘stand up and be counted’. She will also reach out to Council member Hyer to discuss concerns as he suggested after taking the oath of office. She addressed Mayor Nadolski and his blueprint for his first 100 days; she cannot think of more important values than those he cited in that blueprint. She challenged all elected officials to speak up on behalf of their constituents and ask questions of the other side; The Council should not be a rubber stamp for City Administration. She also reminded them that taxation without representation is illegal and not constitutional and, with that being said, she does not support the amendments to the snow removal ordinance. She has neighbors who will be tremendously impacted by the ordinance. 
	Teresa Bramwell welcomed new Council members; it is not easy to be a public figure and express opinions in front of so many people. She is trying to find a positive resolution to the problems she has dealt with on her property in Ogden; everything happening in her neighborhood is scary and there is so much uncertainty. She has encountered many bureaucratic hurdles when dealing with Ogden staff and officials and she would love to see this problem resolved. 
	Krista Liljenquist shared her personal experiences in Ogden; she has been in her current home for over seven years and has lived in Ogden over 20 years. She lives on the 22nd block of Monroe Boulevard north of an apartment complex; the curb and gutter from that complex is never maintained following a snowstorm and people continue to park on the street following a snowstorm. She stated she has always maintained her sidewalk and curb and removed snow following a storm. It is not right that so many residents are taking care of their properties, while others are not. She stated that renters of the apartment complex have even moved her garbage cans onto her park strip so that they can park in front of her home, and this results in her garbage cans not being emptied. She is seeking assistance from the City to address the problems she has encountered, and she supports the ordinance to amend the snow removal ordinance. She understands that some people do not have off-street parking, but if a developer wishes to build an apartment complex, they need to ensure adequate parking for their tenants. 

Proposed Ordinance 2023-62 amending Section 10-5-21 of the Ogden Municipal Code to revise snow removal requirements and makes technical changes
	A memo from the Public Services Department regarding proposed snow removal ordinance amendments came before the Council for consideration.  The memo stated the proposed ordinance amends Ogden Municipal Code § 10-5-21 to prohibit on-street parking when it is snowing or when snow removal is apparent or imminent, or when there is an accumulation of snow or ice of one inch or more.  The amendments also exempt roads that are controlled by the State of Utah, those roads designated by the Mayor as having inadequate off-street parking, and properties with no driveway approach.  The proposed amendments are intended to facilitate snow removal during the winter months, increase safety, and reduce damage inadvertently caused by plows.
	Public Operations Manager Ramos summarized the memo and used the aid of a PowerPoint presentation to expound on the proposed ordinance amendments and provide photos of problematic areas snowplow drivers have encountered when trying to remove snow from City streets. The photos served as evidence of how snowplow drivers impacted by on-street parking. For a copy of the PowerPoint presentation in its entirety, see the information packet. 
	Chair Choberka referenced past work session meetings when this matter was discussed and highlighted the costs associated with claims made against the City related to insufficient snow removal. This led to discussion among the Council and Public Services Deputy Director Anderson regarding the dangerous conditions that are created when snow is not removed properly following a storm due to on-street parking; he emphasized that the City will only take enforcement action on those that have adequate off-street parking options but are choosing instead to park on the street. Chair Choberka noted that one constituent raised the point that the City has adjusted parking requirements for several different zoning designations in the City, particularly in downtown Ogden, that has increased the amount of on-street parking. She asked for an explanation of the appeal process a resident can pursue if they are cited for on-street parking. Mr. Ramos summarized the appeal process identified in the proposed ordinance but noted that residents will be properly notified of the proposed ordinance amendments before citations are issued. The Public Services Department will work with the Ogden Police Department in communicating with residents about the new regulations requiring off-street parking during or following a storm event. This led to review of all communication methods for the City to utilize to communicate the changes to all residents. There was discussion among the Council and staff regarding the implications of the proposed ordinance amendments; Chair Choberka voiced that she is still concerned about the negative impact the ordinance will have on many residents in the community and she will not vote to adopt the ordinance. Council members Blair, Graf, and Vice Chair Richey acknowledged and agreed with Chair Choberka’s concerns, but also indicated they understand the purposes of the proposed regulations; they feel that for efficient and safe snow removal practices, the proposed regulations are necessary. 
	Mayor Nadolski noted that this ordinance was proposed at the time he was still serving as a Council member and he understood and agreed with the concerns that have been expressed by Chair Choberka and former Council member Lopez; since being sworn as the Mayor, he has become intimately familiar with the problems associated with snow removal throughout the entire City of Ogden and he believes the Public Services Department needs these types of regulations in order to do their job the right way. Chair Choberka agreed but noted that perhaps the citizens of Ogden have unreasonable expectations of the timeframe for snow removal. 
	Council member Hyer suggested that the remainder of the 2024 winter season be used to educate residents on the ordinance amendments and parking regulations during the winter months. He believes the ordinance will save the City time and money in the long run and will improve safety for the public. Council member Graf agreed; he acknowledged that change is not easy, but it is important. He believes appropriate exceptions have been included in the ordinance and he is comfortable moving forward with adoption of the ordinance at this time. 
Chair Choberka introduced in writing proposed Ordinance 2023-62, entitled:
“An ordinance of Ogden City Utah, amending the Ogden Municipal Code by amending Section 10-5-21 to revise snow removal requirements; making technical changes; and providing that this ordinance shall become effective immediately upon posting after final passage.”
	ON A MOTION BY COUNCIL MEMBER HYER AND SECONDED BY COUNCIL MEMBER BLAIR, ORDINANCE 2023-62 WAS ADOPTED UPON THE FOLLOWING ROLL CALL VOTE: VOTING AYE – COUNCIL MEMBERS BLAIR, GRAF, HYER, MEYERS, AND VICE CHAIR RICHEY.  VOTING NO – CHAIR CHOBERKA. Council member White was not present when this vote was taken.   
	Chair Choberka stated that she would like to see data in the future regarding the number of warnings and citations that have been issued, as well as the number of appeals that are filed responsive to citations issued. 

Mayor Comments
	Mayor Nadolski thanked Public Services staff for the information provided regarding the snow removal ordinance and for being willing to work with the Council to help educate residents on the ordinance change rather than approaching the issue from a punitive angle. He noted that if it is found that the ordinance is not effective, Administration is willing to review it and consider additional changes in the future. 
	
Council member Comments
	Council member Graf commended the Public Services Department for proposing the snow removal ordinance amendments after recognizing the impact that the issue was having on safety throughout the City. 
	Council member Blair spoke of retired Public Services Director Lowder’s service to the community and again wished him well in his retirement. He commended City Administration for creating such a great management team to take care of the City of Ogden; there is so much good that happens in the community, and he is in awe of the talent that has been assembled to manage the City. 


There being no further business to come before the Council, COUNCIL MEMBER BLAIR MOVED THE MEETING ADJOURN AT 7:59 P.M.  MOTION WAS SECONDED BY VICE CHAIR RICHEY, ALL VOTING AYE.  Council member White was not present when this vote was taken.  




							________________________________________
							TRACY HANSEN, MMC/CRA
							CITY RECORDER
________________________________________
ANGELA CHOBERKA, CHAIR

APPROVED:  February 6, 2024















