         Minutes of Special Meeting of Redevelopment Agency of Ogden City, Utah, November 7, 2023 Page


         Minutes of the special meeting of the Ogden City Redevelopment Agency held on Tuesday, November 7, 2023 at 7:56
p.m., in the Council Chambers, and via electronic meeting, on the third floor of the Municipal Building, 2549 Washington
Boulevard, Ogden City, Weber County, Utah.

         Present:           Chair                  Angela Choberka
                            Vice Chair             Ken Richey
                            Board members          Bart E. Blair
                                                   Richard A. Hyer
                                                   Ben Nadolski
                                                   Marcia L. White

                            Board Administrator Janene Eller-Smith
                            Board Deputy Administrator Glenn Symes
                            Communications and Public Engagement Coordinator Brandon Garside
                            Communication Project Coordinator Eric Davenport

         Excused:           Board member Luis Lopez

         Also present:      Chief Administrative Officer Mara A. Brown
                            Assistant City Attorney Katie Ellis
                            Community and Economic Development Director Brandon Cooper
                            Economic Development Manager Damen Burnham
                            Deputy Business Development Manager David Sawyer
                            Management Services Director Lisa Stout
                            Deputy City Recorder Jason Gould


Proposed Resolution 2023-19 authorizing the Executive Director to execute
the terms and conditions of a Real Estate Purchase Contract for the
purchase of property located at 1781 Gibson Avenue. (Continued from
October 17, 2023)
          A memo from the Community and Economic Development Department came before the Board to consider a resolution
authorizing the Executive Director to execute a Real Estate Purchase Contract (REPC) for 1781 Gibson Avenue. The memo
stated the Administration is requesting approval of an REPC with Nathanial Jones for the purchase of a duplex located at 1781
Gibson Avenue for $725,000. This property is located within the proposed Gibson Community Reinvestment Area.
          Community and Economic Development Director Cooper summarized the memo and presented a map identifying the
properties currently controlled by the City, which the City has been purchasing since 2015. This assemblage of property has been
referred to as the Gibson Grove area. It is contiguous to properties owned by Lotus Development, the firm performing
development of property south of the Ogden River. They have plans to build a bridge spanning the Ogden River to connect their
project to the Gibson Grove area. He noted the subject property, 1781 Gibson Avenue, is located in the middle of the City owned
property; it contains a single-family home on .43 acres and is used as a duplex with two tenants currently occupying it. The
purchase price is $725,000 and the City has paid earnest money of $5,000. The amount due at closing is $720,000 plus closing
costs and he hopes to close by November 14, 2023. The funding source for the purchase is the Redevelopment Agency (RDA)
Housing Fund. He presented a conceptual rendering of the type of housing project that could be developed on the property; it
includes a variety of housing types – townhomes, single-family homes, and apartments – and would have 40 percent, or 6.75 acres
of open space, which would enhance the Ogden River frontage.
          Board member Hyer referenced another property in the project area that is not yet owned by the City; he asked if the City
would also like to acquire it. Mr. Cooper answered yes but noted that it has not been for sale in the past. Purchasing 1781 Gibson
Avenue makes the connection to that property much more manageable.
          Board member Nadolski inquired as to the market value of the property. Mr. Cooper stated that the appraised value was
$446,762 and it reflected the as-is condition of the property being used as a duplex and not what the valuation would be under any
type of development scenario.
          Board member Blair thanked Mr. Cooper for the numerous meetings he participated in with the Board to educate them on
this proposal and answering their questions in preparation for making a decision. Chair Choberka agreed; she has appreciated the
conversations about the potential for the area. She has reservations about purchasing properties at a price higher than appraised
value, but she understands the desire to pursue an innovative project and providing different housing types in demand in the
community. Mr. Cooper stated that the RDA’s participation in development of the area will create many great benefits for families
with different economic means; the Agency’s housing programs are best in class. The project is very exciting to him and will add
to the current single-family ownership projects currently underway in Ogden City.
          Board member White also thanked Mr. Cooper for spending a great deal of time helping the Board understand the broad
scope of the development potential of the area; she was having difficulty seeing the benefit of purchasing 1781 Gibson for a price
much greater than appraised value, but considering the development of the project area as a whole has helped her to understand
the opportunities that will be created in this neighborhood.
          Board member Nadolski stated that he thinks the project concept is great, but each individual Board member has had to
consider whether they feel the Agency can afford to purchase the subject property at a price much higher than the appraised value.
Mr. Cooper agreed and noted that assembling the entire project area gives the Agency greater flexibility relative to the future use
of the property, which could even include selling the property to another entity or developer for a greater value than the total spent
to acquire all properties.
          Chair Choberka introduced in writing proposed Resolution 2023-19, entitled:
                   “A resolution of the Ogden City Redevelopment Agency approving and authorizing the Executive Director to
                   execute a real estate purchase contract with Nathanial Jones, an individual, for the purchase of approximately
                   .43 acres of real property located at 1781 Gibson Avenue, Ogden, Utah.”
          Chair Choberka then called for public input regarding the proposed resolution.
          Heath Satow referenced Mr. Cooper’s mention of the option of selling the property to a developer and he referenced the
WonderBlock project, in which the City was speaking to a developer before purchasing the land, and that developer has now
received bonuses and incentives funded by a $1 million loan from the City’s sewer fund. The Board was told that money would be
recovered when the property was sold to a developer, but the City is now funding up to $100 million for the WonderBlock project.
He has some difficulty in believing what the Board is being told by Mr. Cooper relating to the Gibson Grove project.
          Angel Castillo stated that acquiring property is important if the Agency truly plans to pursue innovative housing solutions
for the community. However, there are different ways to maintain control over the end use of a property, including land trusts or a
partnership with another party, such as the public/private partnership that has occurred at Business Depot Ogden (BDO) for the
management of that installation. Ogden City has done some great work with its RDA. She is supportive of purchasing the property
but would encourage the Boad to impose hard parameters. She cited the goal of the Quality Neighborhoods Initiative but noted
that the goal does not have any ‘teeth’ or metrics to be measured to ensure how close the Agency is to achieving that goal. It is
imperative that the Board be very granular in determining how the success of a project or program will be measured.
          Travis Pate discussed his experience working on the Ogden River Redevelopment Project, which encompassed the area
between 18th and 20th Street and Washington Boulevard to Wall Avenue. That project was phenomenal, but now it seems the
Agency is pushing development out of the downtown area with the justification that it is linked to a transportation hub. He noted
that the Board continues to be made promises by Administration, but those promises are not delivered upon, and the Board needs
to demand delivery before continuing to approve new redevelopment projects. He stated that if the Agency partners with Lotus
Development, the project will be high rise apartments rather than single family homes as mentioned by Mr. Cooper.
          There were no additional persons appearing to be heard.
          Chair Choberka asked if the decision to sell the property at any point in the future would need to be approved by the
Board. Mr. Cooper answered yes, all property transactions must be considered by the Board before they are finalized. He also
indicated he is willing to partner with the Board on developing the conceptual plans for the project. Board member Nadolski stated
that is very important to him but noted that his greatest concern remains the purchase price of the property.
          Board member White noted that the Utah Legislature is working to adjust regulations relative to the types of development
matters that must be presented to the Board; she believes what Mr. Cooper is doing actually exceeds what has been required by the
Legislature. Board member Nadolski stated that achieving alignment with City Administration on these types of projects, in a
public and transparent manner, will help to strengthen the public’s trust in City government and its processes. Chair Choberka
agreed and added that the Board has been learning of these types of projects much earlier in the process than was the case in the
past. She added she looks forward to detailed discussion about housing problems in the community and how the City can help
residents to achieve home ownership and equity. She is optimistic for the future.
          VICE CHAIR RICHEY MOVED THE RESOLUTION BE ADOPTED, AND THE CHAIR BE AUTHORIZED
TO SIGN THE SAME. MOTION WAS SECONDED BY BOARD MEMBER BLAIR, WITH THE FOLLOWING ROLL
CALL VOTE: VOTING AYE – BOARD MEMBERS BLAIR, HYER, NADOLSKI, WHITE, VICE CHAIR RICHEY,
AND CHAIR CHOBERKA. VOTING NO – NONE. Board member Lopez was not present when this vote was taken.
          Board member Hyer stated that he would be very disappointed if the property were developed solely into an apartment
complex; he was also uncomfortable paying a higher price than appraised value for the property, but his concerns were somewhat
addressed by the commitment of a project that will include different housing types. Boad member Nadolski agreed; he was also
concerned about the purchase price, but he feels better about doing it if it creates home ownership opportunities for residents of
Ogden City.

Proposed Resolution 2023-20 approving a first amendment to interlocal
agreement between the Ogden City Redevelopment Agency and Ogden
City authorizing the extension of the sharing of tax increment in the
Continental Community Reinvestment Project Area; and
Proposed Resolution 2023-21 approving a first amendment to interlocal
agreement between the Ogden City Redevelopment Agency and Weber
County authorizing the extension of the sharing of tax increment in the
Continental Community Reinvestment Project Area; and
Proposed Resolution 2023-22 approving a first amendment to interlocal
agreement between the Ogden City Redevelopment Agency and the Ogden
School District authorizing the extension of the sharing of tax increment in
the Continental Community Reinvestment Project Area
          A memo from the Community and Economic Development Department came before the Board to consider the extension
of the Continental Community Reinvestment Project Area (CRA) and amending the interlocal agreements with Ogden City,
Weber County, and the Ogden School District. The memo stated the purpose of the proposed extension of the Continental CRA is
to support the bonds for the WonderBlock project. The Continental CRA plan and budget was approved initially in January 2019
for a period of 22 years, expiring in 2041. In December 2021, the Board approved the two-year extension of seven project areas
including the Continental CRA. No project area budgets changed with the 2021 extensions. The current expiration of the
Continental CRA is 2043. Participating entities for the Continental CRA include Ogden City, Ogden School District, and Weber
County. To support the bonds issued for the development of the WonderBlock project, the Administration is proposing an
extension of the Continental CRA. The budget for the project area would remain the same but the collection period would be
extended, and the participation level would be reduced during the extended years.
          Community and Economic Development Director Cooper summarized the memo and stated the proposal is for the RDA
Board to approve interlocal agreements between the RDA and the City, Ogden School District, and Weber County extending the
collection period for the Continental CRA. The extension for the school district and the county would be for a period of six years
and for the City would be for a period of 15 years. The extension of the collection period may be revoked, and the original
collection period may be reinstated in the event the WonderBlock project is sold prior to the expiration of the extended tax
increment period and the municipal bonds associated with the WonderBlock project are paid in full. He noted that Weber County
and the Ogden School District have already approved the amended agreements on their end.
          Chair Choberka introduced in writing proposed Resolution 2023-20, entitled:
                   “A resolution of the Ogden City Redevelopment Agency approving a First Amendment to Interlocal Agreement
                   between the Ogden City Redevelopment Agency and Weber County authorizing the extension of the sharing of
                   tax increment in the Continental Community Reinvestment Project Area.”
          Chair Choberka introduced in writing proposed Resolution 2023-21, entitled:
                   “A resolution of the Ogden City Redevelopment Agency approving a First Amendment to Interlocal Agreement
                   between the Ogden City Redevelopment Agency and the Ogden School District authorizing the extension of the
                   sharing of tax increment in the Continental Community Reinvestment Project Area.”
          Chair Choberka introduced in writing proposed Resolution 2023-22, entitled:
                   “A resolution of the Ogden City Redevelopment Agency approving a First Amendment to Interlocal Agreement
                   between the Ogden City Redevelopment Agency and Ogden City authorizing the extension of the sharing of tax
                   increment in the Continental Community Reinvestment Project Area.”
          BOARD MEMBER HYER MOVED RESOLUTIONS 2023-20, 2023-21, AND 2023-22 BE ADOPTED, AND THE
CHAIR BE AUTHORIZED TO SIGN THE SAME. MOTION WAS SECONDED BY VICE CHAIR RICHEY, WITH
THE FOLLOWING ROLL CALL VOTE: VOTING AYE – BOARD MEMBERS BLAIR, HYER, NADOLSKI, WHITE,
VICE CHAIR RICHEY, AND CHAIR CHOBERKA. VOTING NO – NONE. Board member Lopez was not present
when this vote was taken.

Proposed Resolution 2023-23 authorizing and approving the execution and
delivery of a ground lease agreement, by and between the Agency and the
Municipal Building Authority
          A memo from the Community and Economic Development Department came before the Board to consider a resolution
approving a Ground Lease Agreement with the Municipal Building Authority (MBA). The memo stated this agreement is
associated with the issuance of Lease Revenue Bonds which were approved by the MBA Board on January 10, 2023, to fund
construction of parking structures associated with the WonderBlock project. That bond parameters agreement included an
authorization of a ground lease agreement between the MBA and Ogden City. The Agreement between the RDA and the MBA
will replace the ground lease previously approved.
          Community and Economic Development Director Cooper summarized the memo and summarized the following key
terms of the ground lease:
              • The Agreement is between the Municipal Building Authority and the Redevelopment Agency.
              • The Agency owns fee simple title to the Property.
              • The Building Authority will not default on the master lease or the ground lease.
              • The Agency leases the property to the Building Authority.
              • The Lease Agreement will commence on the date the Series 2023 Bonds are issued.
              • The Lease Agreement will terminate after forty years or upon conveyance of the property under the terms of the
                   Master Lease Agreement.
              • The Building Authority has the option to renew the ground lease if, on the termination date, the debt has not
                   been fully repaid. The Building Authority may also renew the lease if the Master Lease Agreement is renewed.
              • The Building Authority shall pay a rental fee to the Agency of $1 per year for forty years or until the ground
                   lease is terminated.
            • Agency may not subordinate or encumber its interest in the property.
            • The Building Authority will acquire and carry insurance on the property.
            • The Building Authority will maintain the property during the term of lease.
        Chair Choberka introduced in writing proposed Resolution 2023-23, entitled:
                “A resolution of the Board of Directors (the “Board”) of the Ogden City Redevelopment Agency (the
                “Agency”) authorizing and approving the execution and delivery of a Ground Lease Agreement, by and
                between the Agency and the Municipal Building Authority of Ogden City, Utah (the “Authority”); and related
                matters.”
        BOARD MEMBER WHITE MOVED THE RESOLUTION BE ADOPTED, AND THE CHAIR BE
AUTHORIZED TO SIGN THE SAME. MOTION WAS SECONDED BY BOARD MEMBER HYER, WITH THE
FOLLOWING ROLL CALL VOTE: VOTING AYE – BOARD MEMBERS BLAIR, HYER, NADOLSKI, WHITE,
VICE CHAIR RICHEY, AND CHAIR CHOBERKA. VOTING NO – NONE. Board member Lopez was not present
when this vote was taken.

Executive Director Comments
        There were no comments from the Executive Director.

Board members Comments
       There were no comments from Board members.


     There being no further business to come before the Agency, VICE CHAIR RICHEY MOVED THE MEETING
ADJOURN AT 8:46 P.M. MOTION WAS SECONDED BY BOARD MEMBER HYER, ALL VOTING AYE.




                                                                     ________________________________________
                                                                     JASON GOULD
                                                                     DEPUTY CITY RECORDER
________________________________________
ANGELA CHOBERKA, CHAIR

APPROVED: February 13, 2024
