MEETING MINUTES
ALTA PLANNING COMMISSION MEETING
Wednesday, Nevember 19, 2025, 3:00 PM
Alta Community Center, 10351 E. Highway 210, Alta, Utah ’
ALTA PLANNING COMMISSION MEETING — 3:00 PM |
PRESENT: Jon Nepstad, Chair
Jeff Niermeyer, Vice-Chair (joined at 3:07 - virtual) :
Paul Moxley
Maren Askins
David Abraham .
Roger Bourke, Town of Alta Mayor
STAFF PRESENT: Chris Cawley, Town Manager .
Molly Austin, Assistant Town Manager
Polly McLean, Town Attorney .
ALSO PRESENT: John Guldner, Cottonwood Lands Advisory (virtual) )
Andrina Hougham, Shallow Shaft Property Owner -
Jay Springer, Shallow Shaft Attorney
Hans Hoffman, Shallow Shaft Architect
NOT PRESENT: . |
1. INTRODUCTION AND WELCOME FROM THE CHAIR
Planning Commission Chair Jon Nepstad opened the November 19, 2025 meeting at 3:01 PM.
2. PUBLIC COMMENT | :
No comments received. .
3. APPROVAL OF THE MINUTES FROM THE OCTOBER 22,2025 MEETING |
Planning Commissioner Maren Askins moved to approve the minutes from the October 22, 2025 . | !
Planning Commission meeting. Planning Commissioner David Abraham seconded. All were in
favor, and the minutes were approved.
4, PRESENTATION and DISCUSSION: SHALLOW SHAFT PROPOSED ZONING |
" TEXT AMENDMENT
Alta Planning Commission Meeting Minutes |
November 19, 2025 1 |
|

Chris Cawley described that while the Shallow Shaft (“the Applicant”) presented at planning . .
commission meetings over the past few years, they have now submitted a complete application
that has initiated formal proceedings for a proposed code amendment. Another key difference

from prior meetings is the actual text amendment itself, which has a new approach to the lot
coverage requirements the Applicant proposes to amend as well as the introduction of a new
allowable use that would only apply to Base Facility Zone (BFZ) Zone C, Cawley noted that
there are some nonconformities that currently exist on the property and it is likely some of those
nonconformities would still exist with the proposed development concept, but he encouraged the
commission to focus on the actual ordinance changes that are proposed. Cawley clarified that
there is no action on the agenda today, as a public hearing would need to occur prior to any final
action. The role of the Planning Commission would be to offer a recommendation (either .
positive, negative, or neutral) to the Town Council, which has final authority to approve a land
use regulation amendment.
Andrina Hougham introduced herself as owner of the Shallow Shaft property and introduced Jay
Springer as their legal counsel and Hans Hoffman, the project architect. To start, Hougham gave
a high-level overview of how we came to this meeting today. Hougham explained that the text
amendment presented today is based on feedback previously received from the commission.
Hougham reviewed that the Shallow Shaft has been under their ownership for 39 years and has
provided ongoing support for local organizations. The Shallow Shaft restaurant closed in 2020 .
coinciding with the covid pandemic and has yet to reopen. During the closure, ownership
explored the idea of a new use for their building and representatives first attended a public
meeting in April of 2024 to present their concept to tear down the restaurant and rebuild a small
lodging facility, emphasizing their desire to meet all code requirements, Feedback from that
initial meeting was incorporated into their following presentation in March of 2025 as well as
what is being presented today. Based on that feedback, the new proposal includes employee
housing, a coffee shop, a reduced room count, adjustments to the parking area based on Utah
Department of Transportation input, and a snow melt management solution. Hougham
summarized that the main discussion points from the previous meeting were the culvert
management and the consideration of hotel rooms that include kitchens, with the latter being a
sticking point that was unable to be resolved in previous meetings. Since March 2025, ve
representatives of the Shallow Shaft have met with Alta Ski Lifts general manager, Mike
Maughan, placed a GRAMA request for building plans and permits for other Alta hotel
properties (to better understand how other Alta hotels have come to have guest rooms with
kitchens), met with Alta Town Council members, and had ongoing discussions with Town

Manager, Chris Cawley. As an outcome of those actions, the Shallow Shaft has submitted a

formal request for a rezone and/or text amendment. The goal of the proposal was to allow rooms
with kitchens that can be rented on a nightly basis in Zone C of the BFZ.

Hougham gave an overview of the BFZ, noting that it is composed of 3 distinct Zones: Zone A
includes the Snowpine Lodge, Rustler Lodge, and Alta Lodge; Zone B includes the Goldminer’s
Daughter Lodge and Alta Peruvian Lodge; and Zone C includes the Shallow Shaft and
Photohaus.

Hougham then provided a review of the proposal:

Alta Planning Commission Meeting Minutes ,

November 19, 2025 2

1. Lot width area ;
Town of Alta Code 10-6D-8 prohibits construction of any building, structure, or
improvements on lots with an area of less than 1 net developable acre, a slope that exceeds
30%, or on a lot with a width of less than 100 feet.
The proposed text amendment to 10-6D-8 would distinguish Zone C of the BFZ from Zones
. A and B, and create a stipulation that “any lot or parcel in Zone C that existed as a separate
legal lot or parcel prior to January 1, 2025, and has not been subdivided or otherwise
modified since that date, shall be deemed to meet the minimum lot area and width
requirements of this Code, despite net developable area being less than one acre, for purposes
of any development application.”
2. New Permitted Use: Boutique Hotel |
Town of Alta Code 10-6D-4 outlines current permitted and prohibited uses in the BFZ. The |
proposed text amendment would allow for an additional permitted use explicitly in Zone C !
only of a “boutique hotel” and “living quarters for persons employed on the premises of any :
Main Use”,
3. New Definition: Boutique Hotel
Town of Alta Code 10-1-6 provides definitions of terms in Title 10. The proposed .
amendment would add a new definition: “Boutique Hotel: A small, independently operated
lodging facility located only within Zone C of the BFZ, containing no more than eight (8)
guest-rooms, including any on-site worker housing units as may be required by Alta Code. A
Boutique Hotel shall be separately owned and independent from any larger resort, hotel, or ,
lodging facility. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in Alta Code, guest-rooms ina
Boutique Hotel may include in-room or shared kitchens and kitchenettes for guest use.”
Hougham explained that the intent is to only apply the above definition to Zone C and
acknowledged that the proposed language may not be perfect.
To start the discussion, Cawley clarified that he has not told the Applicant what to do but rather
offered the suggestion to limit their proposal to Zone C as applying it to the entire BFZ would
result in a more significant change. It is ultimately up to the Planning Commission and Town
. Council to decide if, how, and where a zoning change is applied. Cawley also noted that
“Boutique Hotel” could cause some confusion as all the major lodging properties in Alta could
be considered a boutique hotel. .
Moxley asked what amenities constitute a kitchen. Hougham offered that a refrigerator, stove,
dishwashers, etc. would distinguish a kitchen from a kitchenette, which typically includes a mini
fridge and microwave. Springer added that both the proposed new use and new definition are :
limited to Zone C, to make the intent explicit to limit this new use to Zone C only to anyone who
may be reviewing the code in the future. :
Alta Planning Commission Meeting Minutes |
November 19, 2025 3

, Nepstad inquired why we would need a new definition when a hotel is already a permitted use.
McLean stated that current code definitions prohibit kitchens in hotels because a kitchen
converts a hotel room into a “dwelling”, and the purpose statement clarifies that dwellings are

not allowed in the BFZ. The new definition is required to allow for hotel room that have
kitchens, if the commission supports the concept. McLean asked the commission to consider
whether this amendment would open the door to other properties in the BFZ to include kitchens
in hotel rooms. McLean stated that another topic that came up ahead of this meeting is that there
is a long, complicated history with land-ownership in the BFZ, with most of the land originally
being owned by the United States Forest Service (USFS). The context and timeline of when the
land was transferred and when the zone was created is important for the commission to ,
understand and consider, as that process did result in creating some nonconformities.
Nepstad noted that the use of the term “Boutique” is somewhat arbitrary, and Cawley agreed,
stating that a more ideal term and/or definition can be created if the Town wishes to allow the
use. Cawley noted that the prohibition of residential uses in the BFZ has been a fundamental
principle of Town of Alta land use planning and regulations.

Hoffman noted that the Building Code allows for kitchens in hotels. McLean clarified that Alta
Town code defines a dwelling as a living space with a kitchen — and dwellings are not allowed in
this zone.

David Abraham agreed that a text amendment is the right path forward towards recommending
something of this nature. He then described some favorable elements of the proposal, such as the
mixed-use nature of the project, on-site parking, the inclusion of workforce housing, and
commercial use of limited size. Abraham said he appreciates the nature of the proposal and how
it fits into the vision for “downtown Alta”. He suggested there is a benefit to the community to a
new use that is not single-family residential but questioned if the proposed coffee shop is enough
of a trade-off for allowing the proposed new uses.
Maren Askins reiterated the benefit of the coffee shop and employee housing. However, she
stated that she is struggling with the idea of allowing a new use for one business only when there
are other established businesses in the area that may also want to add kitchens to their hotel
rooms, but they are restricted from doing so, Askins asked if it would be problematic to have a
definition that is so specific to this one building in our code, noting that the building design isn’t
yet finalized and could change. McLean stated that this scenario is different than spot zoning
because it is a subzone that includes two buildings. She continued that any new definition has to
be tailored to what the commission thinks is correct for that area — noting that the changes would
apply to the Photohaus building as well. McLean stated that the allowable number of guest
rooms is based on net developable acreage. McLean also mentioned that employee housing is
required under the current code, so it is redundant to include it in the definition.
Mclean summarized that there are two major asks in the proposal:
1. Change the code related to lot size and lot width requirements, allowing the building to
no longer be non-conforming and allow them to expand their footprint (clarifying that
current code would allow them to rebuild with an increase of up to 250 square feet).
Alta Planning Commission Meeting Minutes
November 19, 2025 4

2. New use allowance.

Hougham stated current zoning allows for lot coverage of 65% of the lot area (updated from 25%

previously), but that is a moot point in their case because their lot is less than one acre. Hougham

stated that the allowable expansion of 250 square feet equates to a 6% increase for the Shallow

Shaft compared to a 160% increase allowed elsewhere in the BFZ when the coverage

requirements increased from 25% to 65%.

Jeff Niermeyer stated his appreciation for the application, noting the thought that went into it to

try to find a desirable solution for both the Applicant and the Town. Niermeyer expressed

concern about the precedent it may set in terms of fairness and equity to the other lodges that

may want to make similar changes. Niermeyer shared that he reviewed the Town Council

meeting review of the Shrontz Estate, leaving him with the impression that the Town Council is

considering a wider update to the general plan that may result in different allowable uses in the

future. Niermeyer questioned if would be appropriate to wait on this discussion until it can be
incorporated into a broader discussion of a general plan update.

Paul Moxley stated that he tends to be more interested in the big picture than a detail-oriented
person. Moxley shared that he is impressed with the proposal and the concept of more hot beds
in Alta as well as a coffee shop as community benefits. Moxley stated he is in support of the :
other lodges adding sinks and microwaves to their hotel rooms, noting it is quite commonplace in

hotels and could be a draw for tourism.

The conversation turned to other Alta hotels that advertise guest rooms with kitchens. Cawley .
clarified that hotel rooms with kitchens are not allowed, sharing that some of the examples were
permitted as employee dwellings and others may have been altered without a building permit.

Cawley reiterated that the Town is now aware of these instances as a result of this process. :
Mayor Bourke shared that, generally, Alta has had traditional lodges. He noted that this proposal

could add another option that doesn’t exist yet in the central area of Town and it may be

attractive to future visitors.

Jon Nepstad stated that the definition of a “kitchen” is a grey area versus what is an expected
amenity of a hotel room (coffee pot, sink, and perhaps a mini fridge). When considering the

bigger picture, Nepstad stated he is drawn to section 4.3 of the general plan which supports ;
activating the center of Alta by encouraging commercial activity that is accessible to the ,

community and has been keeping that in mind as a metric in consideration of this proposal.
Bourke stated that compared to the current status of the building, the proposal is desirable,

whereas Askins suggested the comparison be made to the previous use of the building as a public

restaurant. .
Cawley noted that Nepstad has always been a strong proponent of this provision of the general
plan, stating that it is the most significant and recent general planning update. While it is

relatively recent, Cawley noted it is 12 years old and highlighted the importance of evaluating
the relevance of the commercial core plan, considering changes to the ski industry and visitation
Alta Planning Commission Meeting Minutes
November 19, 2025 5 :

in Little Cottonwood Canyon. Nepstad reiterated his preference for activating the commercial
core.
- Askins asked a clarifying question regarding the proposed text amendment to 10-6D-8 which

defines lot area, width, and slope requirements. She asked if Zone C should be included in
Section A, to clarify that the proposed exception would only apply to the lots referenced in
section B. Springer offered to provide an alternate version of the language at the next meeting to
address this concern and make the exception clearer. McLean stated that she had contemplated
additional edits to the language, but didn’t want to get into too much detail yet before having

some direction from the commission. She stated that the intent of the meeting today was to gauge
the temperature of the commission and explained that the Applicant has a right to a public

hearing. After a public hearing, the commission could make recommendations to send to the
Town Council for consideration, noting that there is still opportunity to refine the language.

Cawley summarized the discussion by highlighting the question of whether or not to require
commercial use, acknowledging the intent with the “boutique hotel” definition (although he

stated some discomfort with the concept), and the need to carefully consider the prohibition of
residential uses as it appears elsewhere in the code, specifically in the “purpose” section which

may have to be updated if it is something the commission and the Town Council decide to allow. .
Cawley continued to discuss the history of the properties in the Base Facilities Zone, noting that

7 of the 8 parcels were originally property of the USFS until approximately 1985. Cawley

expressed his interest in seeing massing renderings of what could be built on these lots if the

minimum lot area and width requirements are amended.

. McLean stated that staff has.not seen a clear site plan that correctly addresses the culvert issue

nor is there a clear understanding of how much net developable acreage there is on the site. She
cautioned against approving the zoning changes only to deny a future building permit application

for other non-compliance issues. ,

Nepstad asked if there is any knowledge of guests booking a room in any of the Alta lodges for ,

an extended stay of 3-4 months. Askins stated that at the Alta Lodge, it is rare and very difficult

to arrange a stay for more than 30 days. Moxley noted that he believes there is a guest at the

Peruvian Lodge who often stays for the entire season.

Hougham inquired about how the land ownership history is relevant to this application. Cawley
explained that it is the ciecumstances surrounding the ownership of most of the parcels zoned

Base Facilities is unique; the land was private in the 19" century, it was obtained by or donated

to the US Forest Service in the early 20" century, and was then divested by the Forest Service in

the 1980s. McLean shared that when looking at this request from an equity and fairness

standpoint, it is beneficial to see what exists for the other properties that are in the BFZ, noting

that different standards were in place prior to the creation of the BFZ. McLean continued that she

felt it was interesting to understand and contemplate the context of the bigger picture, although it

is not required that the commission do so.

Abraham acknowledged that zoning requirements are rigid, equating zoning to a square peg that

must fit in a square hole, and encouraged the commission to think about how to create zoning

Alta Planning Commission Meeting Minutes

November 19, 2025 6

requirements that will allow commercial activation in the zone. Askins shared that there are lots . .
of options for businesses that fit the current zoning. Hougham stated that hotels are already a
permitted use.
For next steps, the commission asked that the Applicant provide new massing renderings to
illustrate how close the buildings (both Shallow Shaft and Photohaus) could get to each other and
to the road ahead of the next meeting. The idea of how a General Plan update might affect the
timing of this application was discussed, but Cawley noted that the earliest a General Plan update
project could get started is next July, and is likely to be a lengthy process, so it was determined
to move forward sooner rather than later.
McLean stated that the Applicant has the right to have a public hearing or action in a timely
manner. Cawley acknowledged that the discussion today was productive and proposed a future
meeting with deeper discussion on some of the topics raised today and perhaps a closer look at -
the language in the proposed text amendments, Nepstad summarized that the plan is to have the
Applicant back in December with additional information, but not likely a public hearing or
action, but to plan for that step in January seems reasonable. The Applicant said they are ready ,
for a hearing in December.
5. PRESENTATION and DISCUSSION: PRIORITIES for FUTURE TOWN OF
ALTA GENERAL PLAN UPDATE
Cawley introduced the topic of a General Plan update. Wasatch Front Regional Council (WFRC)
offers a grant program called Transportation and Land Use Connection (TLC). Cawley shared that
we have used 3 of these grants in the last 11 years. These grants can fund general plan updates,
code updates, and small area planning. Applications are due for the upcoming funding cycle on
December 11. Cawley emphasized that a general plan update is no small feat, and would be a big
undertaking for the commission, staff, council, community and all stakeholders. Cawley reviewed .
that a general plan is a guiding document for land use regulations and should include:
; e A land use element
¢ A transportation and traffic circulation element (challenging for Alta as we don’t own
roads)
e A moderate-income housing element (Alta is exempt due to our classification as a town).
¢ A water use and prevention element (Alta is exempt due to our classification as a town).
Cawley reviewed the role of the planning commission in a general plan update and noted that our
general plan was last comprehensively updated in 2005. The Utah Land Use Development and
Management Act (“LUDMA”) was also overhauled around that time. The most recent update to
the Town of Alta general plan occurred in 2013 to adopt Section 4.3 “Town Center Commercial.”
Cawley then summarized what has changed since our general plan update in 2005, noting the
growth of the Salt Lake Valley, ski industry consolidation and pass products, the great recession,
covid pandemic, increased visitation, Little Cottonwood Canyon transportation studies, and
growth in Town of Alta budgets and scope of services. In other contexts, Alta has remained very
much the same in terms of population, Alta Ski Area ownership, the scale of the business
Alta Planning Commission Meeting Minutes
November 19, 2025 7

toe
community, land ownership patterns in Alta, annual snowfall totals, and no major change in
, transportation. —
Moxley asked if there has been any change in skier visitation, and Cawley stated that there has
been a definite increase since covid. Moxley then inquired about what percentage of skiers have
an Ikon pass, but Cawley did not have that information. Bourke noted that Mike Maughan gave an
update at a recent Town Council meeting. An increase in traffic congestion was also discussed,
noting that Snowbird has had a significant impact on that trend, including in the summer months
with the expansion of Oktoberfest.
Cawley reiterated the necessity of a general plan update and the desire to pursue this grant
opportunity to hire consultants to assist in the process. The grant application deadline is
approaching, and we will have to narrow down what elements of the general plan to focus on.
Nepstad asked what is needed from the commission, and Cawley stated a general show of support
is all that is needed today and a letter of support would certainly help the application process.
Nepstad then asked what the funding expectation is. Cawley shared that exact costs are unknown, —
but consultant fees tend to be expensive, and we are looking at a 6-figure ask in terms of total
_ funding, a small portion of which the Town would match. He continued that we could also consider
a broader update to the Town Code, which could be an additional cost.
Abraham noted that the vision statement should be considered, as well as transportation, although
most transportation decisions are outside of our control. He also noted intent to focus on the
commercial core element. Cawley commented that other topics to consider are watershed
protection and open space protection, noting the recent proposal to develop a large piece of vacant
land.
Niermeyer suggested we make sure public engagement is highlighted in the application process as
that can support a grant application. He also stated that our water contracts need to be revisitedas st.
we consider watershed protection. To conclude, McLean stated that as a result of this discussion,
there is a clear indication of support from the commission in proceeding with the grant funding for
a general plan update.
. 6 NEW BUSINESS ,
No new business
7. DATE OF NEXT MEETING
The next meeting is scheduled for Wednesday, December 17 and expected agenda topics are
follow-up from the Shallow Shaft Applicants and potential update on the General Plan update
project. The potential for skiing around with Alta Ski Area General Manager was discussed for
1:30 PM on December 17. Cawley noted that it is tentative based on skiing conditions and noted
that two commissioners are unavailable to participate. Bourke suggested the ski around is
Alta Planning Commission Meeting Minutes
November 19, 2025 8

deferred until later in the spring when there is more snow and more commissioner availability to
participate.

8. MOTION TO ADJOURN
Planning Commission member Moxley motioned to adjourn the meeting. Planning Commission
member Askins seconded the motion, and the motion was passed unanimously. The meeting was
adjourned. |
——————

. ~aJ
Minutes Approved.on December 17, 2025
C. Chiis Cawley, Town Manager
Alta Planning Commission Meeting Minutes
- November 19, 2025 9

