MEETING MINUTES
ALTA PLANNING COMMISSION MEETING
Wednesday, February 26, 2025, 3:00 PM
Alta Community Center, 10351 E, Highway 210, Alta, Utah
ALTA PLANNING COMMISSION MEETING — 3:00 PM
A RAE SES STON MEETING — 3:00 PM
PRESENT: Jon Nepstad, Chair
Jeff Niermeyer, Vice-Chair
Rob Voye
David Abraham
Maren Askins
Roger Bourke, Town of Alta Mayor .
STAFF PRESENT: Chris Cawley, Town Manager
Molly Austin, Assistant Town Manager
Polly McLean, Town Attorney
ALSO PRESENT: John Guldner, Cottonwood Lands Advisory :
NOT PRESENT: | |
1. INTRODUCTION AND WELCOME FROM THE CHAIR |
re a NY PRAIA !
Planning Commission Chair Jon Nepstad opened the February 26, 2025 meeting at 3:00 PM. |
|
2. PUBLIC COMMENT
aA AN MNLEN
No public comments received. |
3. APPROVAL OF MINUTES FROM THE JANUARY 22 2025, MEETING
Jeff Niermeyer moved to approve the minutes from the January 22, 2025 meeting. Maren Askins |
seconded. All in favor and minutes approved. |
4, PRESENTATION AND DISCUSSION: SHRONTZ, ESTATE PROPOSAL to
DEVELOP a CONDOMINIUM PROJECT on PATSEY MARLEY HILL |
PROPERTY !
Jon Nepstad introduced this agenda item as a continuation of the conversation of the Estate’s |
proposal to develop a condominium project as an alternative to a 10-lot residential subdivision. |
|
Alta Planning Commission Meeting Minutes
February 26, 2025 1

Jeff Niermeyer questioned whether a formal application was up for consideration at this time.
Polly Mclean noted that this conversation is considered a work session and no formal action is
being taken regarding an application. Wade Budge offered to revisit this question later in the
meeting.
Doug Ogilvy introduced himself as representing the Shrontz Estate on the Patsey Marley parcel.
He summarized that the question before the Planning Commission is whether they are in favor of
building a1 0-lot subdivision to include expansion and paving of a portion of the Albion Basin
Summer Road, as approved in a 2014 settlement agreement, (“Development Concept A”’) or the
recently proposed concept of one larger condominium building on the southeast corner of the
property with a proposed alternative paved access road running parallel (to the west, or
downslope, of the summer road) accompanied with a 20-acre conservation easement (
“Development Concept B”’).
Doug noted that after the site visit to the property last month, he noticed that the building
renderings showing height and massing compared to the surrounding treetops was inaccurate,
and the Estate updated their renderings for accuracy. Doug also stated that another outstanding
question from the previous meeting was about water usage, and that they invited a representative
from Aqua Engineering to speak on that topic later this evening.
Jon Nepstad asked that the Estate discuss their proposal to access the project. Doug Ogilvy
responded by saying that the approved access plan with Development Concept A is shared access
along the Albion Basin Summer Road with a parking structure and the alternative proposed in
Development Concept B is to build a new access road to run parallel to the Summer Road, thus
maintaining the Summer Road as it is in its current form and usage. Doug said he believes both
the Estate and the Town prefer this new alternative.
Jeff Niermeyer asked Doug Ogilvy if the estate has approached the USFS about the alternative
access route proposed in Development Concept B. Doug stated that they have not engaged with
the Forest Service yet on that topic.
Maren Askins asked if Alta Ski Area is in favor of the new road. Doug stated that they haven’t
gotten into the details of that yet with representatives from Alta Ski Area, but that working
closely with them is paramount regardless of which alternative is considered.
Jon Nepstad noted that this new alternative has a greater impact and disturbance in the area and
asked why this is the preference. Doug Ogilvy stated that there are some trade-offs, notably that
this alternative will provide two roads to accommodate different user groups vs. having all users
. share one road. Chris Cawley clarified that without the new driveway, there would still be
significant disturbance in the area with the widening and extending of the Summer Road.
Jeff Niermeyer asked about the location and access to the public restrooms. Doug noted that after
discussion at the last meeting, he understood it to be the Town’s preference to keep public
restrooms as a separate out-building located closer to the winter access gate.
Alta Planning Commission Meeting Minutes
February 26, 2025 2

Polly asked how the current Summer Road would be impacted with Development Concept A.
Doug Ogilvy reported that the Summer Road would be widened to 34’ for the majority of the
road and 46’ wide at the entry based on the current approval.
Doug Ogilvy introduced Dan Woodbury from Aqua Engineering to discuss water usage. Mr.
Woodbury noted that the Estate established a cap of 8,000 gallons of water usage per day. He
continued that the number of units in Development Concept B (estimated at 34 total units) would
put that State requirement out of reach (assuming 400 gallons per unit per day), so they have
| approached the State to request a reduction as State code allows on a case-by-case basis. Mr.
Woodbury continued that they gathered data from similar developments in the Deer Valley area
to use for comparison. He further noted that the request is for 250 gallons a day, which is
significantly higher than the samples they are using for comparison. He continued to make the
distinction that the units proposed in Development Concept B would have no outdoor usage
(such as irrigation) further reducing the need.
Jeff Niermeyer asked how the square footage of the proposed units compares to the ones they are :
using as comparable in Deer Valley, to ensure that we are conducting an “apples to apples”
comparison. Mr. Woodbury stated that they are factoring in square footage in their comparisons
and reiterated that discrepancy in outdoor water usage, Jeff then asked about the time period they
are using to measure — whether it was day, peak month, year, etc. Mr. Woodbury noted that they
are collecting data for 36 months. Jeff described that per state code, there must be an enforceable |
mechanism to ensure the monthly cap is not exceeded, which he opined could be a challenge |
during peak visitor months like the holidays,
Jon Nepstad asked the Estate provide the commission with the data Mr. Woodbury described for |
the comparable developments. Mr. Woodbury noted that they are currently evaluating 4 other |
_ properties and are looking to add a few more, including some in Little Cottonwood Canyon.
i
Maren Askins asked about how the additional communal facilities (like food and beverage |
outlets) are being factored into the water usage calculations. Mr. Woodbury noted that would be |
factored in when considering the total number of connections in the development. Jon Nepstad
inquired about the anticipated timing to submit a report to the State and Mr, Woobdury stated |
they expected to have it ready in 3-4 weeks, |
Chris Cawley inquired what the process is like with the State of Utah for review and approval.
Dan Woodbury stated the State would ultimately issue a letter of approval that would be
submitted to the Town of Alta.
Rob Voye asked about the state-level requirements vs. SLC Department of Public Utilities
(SLCDPU). Jeff Niermeyer clarified that the State sets the drinking water requirements and
SLCDPU holds the contract for the source of supply. He provided a useful analogy that
SLCDPU provides the bucket of water, and the State determines how quickly the bucket can be |
drained.
Polly Mclean asked about the distinction between connections and fixtures. Mr. Woodbury |
explained that the State will do a calculation to determine the ERC (equivalent residential |
|
Alta Planning Commission Meeting Minutes
February 26, 2025 “3

connection) based on predicted usage. J eff Niermeyer elaborated that the number of bedrooms
would factor into the ERC calculation as more bedrooms equate to increased usage through the
fixture units.
Wade Budge, legal representative of the Estate, introduced himself. He stated that since the
previous Planning Commission meeting, they have conducted additional meetings with
representatives from SLCDPU and the Town of Alta. Wade clarified that they have also since
submitted an official application to the Town for a re-zone to accommodate Development
Concept B.
Wade explained that per the 2014 agreement, the Estate cannot seek any changes to
Development Concept A without getting consent from both SLCDPU and the Town of Alta. In
October, they received an email confirming consent from SLCDPU to move forward with
Development Concept B and are now working to determine if the Town is also amenable to the
new concept. Wade noted that the application they submitted to the Town for a re-zone could
easily be terminated if the Town wasn’t interested in consenting to the process. He then stated
that property owners have certain rights when it comes to land use applications, but that he
recognized they are not yet in that category.
Wade then led a high-level overview discussion of the process and the roles of the Planning
Commission versus the Town Council. At this point, they are seeking a recommendation for a re-
zone from the Planning Commission to the Town Council. The Planning Commission cannot
approve a te-zone, but they can offer a recommendation in favor of, against, or in favor of with
conditions or comments, to the Town Council. Wade continued that ultimately it is the Town
Council that the Estate will have to work with to get this project approved, with the following
asks:
, e Ate-zone of the property from FR-1 to FM-20
e Amendments to the development agreement currently in force
If the Estate and the Town Council agree to those terms, the Estate would return to the Planning
Commission with a land use application consisting of a conditional use permit and a
condominium plat. Wade emphasized that if they get to that point, they will come back to the
Planning Commission with all of the outstanding details that are currently in question (like total
number of water fixtures, how they would mitigate some of the detrimental impacts of the
"project, accounting for the rights of Alta Ski Lifts that are already in place, etc.). At this point,
they are presenting the Planning Commission with the general outline of Development Concept
B and are seeking comments, but reco gnize it is not a complete project plan as many of those
details would be sorted out further along in the process.
Jeff Niermeyer noted that the wetlands should be added to their list of items for consideration.
Wade Budge then continued to describe what details would be required in a conditional use
permit application, such as: .
e Compliance with set-back requirements
e Avoiding unlawful impacts on wetlands
Alta Planning Commission Meeting Minutes
February 26, 2025 4

Wade once again stated that this is a voluntary process and that if the Town withdraw from it or
declines to approve the Estate’s proposal, the Estate would revert to Development Concept A as
agreed upon in 2014, The conversation for today is to offer comments on the consideration of a
re-zone,
Jeff Niermeyer noted that the dialo gue on this topic thus far has been restricted to the Planning
Commission and he expressed interest in opening up the conversation to the greater Town of
Alta community. Wade noted that his preference would be to have a formal public hearing in
conjunction with the March Planning Commission meeting that would include an overview of
the project details the Estate has shared to-date. Jon Nepstad highlighted the importance of
providing community members with visual representations of the impacts of Development
Concept B and proposed holding an open-house style meeting to allow for broader community
input in a more informal setting.
_ The Estate and the Commission discussed possible details for how an open house meeting would
be conducted and the Planning Commission came to a consensus to move in the direction of
getting one scheduled.
| Polly Mclean asked for clarification on the revised development agreement to go along with the
re-zone as well as the current settlement/development agreement. Wade clarified that the
development agreement from February 14, 2014 was an administrative development agreement, |
meaning that it did not seek a variation in zoning. He noted that the choice to re-zone is
legislative, meaning it would come from the Town Council. Wade then emphasized that a re-
zone would not be pursued without being accompanied by an updated development agreement |
that included the conservation easement terms, the alternative access route, and a “host of other |
items”, one of which is a stipulation about the water usage, noting that element would require
cooperation from SLCDPU. |
Jon Nepstad asked for clarification on who would hold the conservation easement. Wade stated
that the Estate would pick a qualified donee that js acceptable to all parties and added that the
Estate had informal conversations with Friends of Alta as an interested and qualified party. |
Wade then stated that a mutual water company would be formed to manage and enforce the
requirements related to water usage,
Rob Voye asked about the inclusion of Alta Ski Lifts in the conversation and if they are
comfortable with the proposal as it stands. Wade stated he could not speak on their behalf but
that he understands that including and working with them is essential, especially in regard to
obtaining approvals from the USES and evaluating the impacts to skiers in the development area. !
David Abraham clarified that the re-zone request is for the FM-20 zone and then asked about the
developable acreage. Doug Ogilvy explained that the total lot size is approximately 6 acres, but
since the uphill portion of the lot is desi gnated for conservation, the developable acreage is closer |
to 2.5 acres, David Abraham then asked for clarification that the building height is a standard
|
Alta Planning Commission Meeting Minutes |
February 26, 2025 5
|
I

that will be determined by the Planning Commission and not something that would be included
in a recommendation to the Town Council, which Polly McLean confirmed.
The commission discussed a summary of next steps:
e Estate representatives to coordinate with TOA staff to host an Open House for
community input for some time in March
e Estate requests to be on the agenda for the March Planning Commission meeting,
assuming the timing allows with the Open House
e Planning Commission gets to a position to be ready to make a recommendation to the
Town Council with any comments they may have
e Town Council weighs comments from the Planning Commission along with a draft
Development Agreement
e Development Agreement to outline what process would be followed should the
application for a re-zone be approved
e Estate to return to the Planning Commission with an application for a Conditional Use
Permit as eatly as this summer
e The conservation benefits get transferred to the qualified donee as soon as practicable
Jeff Niermeyer asked Polly Mclean how the Planning Commission can make their
recommendation to the Town Council. Polly noted that the application for a re-zone was
officially submitted to the Town recently and the Town is still evaluating whether it is a
complete application. If the Town determines the application is complete, the next step would be
to bring that application before the Planning Commission for a formal recommendation.
Rob Voye noted that with the addition of an Open House meeting, there may be a need to push
back the regularly scheduled Planning Commission to allow for enough time to advertise the
event and then synthesize the information gathered from the public. A discussion then followed
on the logistics of the Open House meeting, with an emphasis on the fact that it is an
 nformational meeting for the public to gather comments and feedback.
5. OPEN AND PUBLIC MEETINGS ACT TRAINING
Polly McLean introduced the Open and Public Meetings Act and summarized that the basis of
the Act is to ensure that public business is conducted transparently and in he public. The Act
applies to any public body of two or more individuals supported by tax money or with decision-
making authority. A meeting is defined as a quorum of a public body, which for the Alta
Planning Commission means three or more members convening to discuss, receive comments, or
act on town-felated matters.
Polly clarified that casual social interactions among members do not constitute a meeting unless
town business is discussed. Polly addressed potential issues with electronic communications
(such as emai! chains and group text messages), explaining that if a quorum participates and
town business is discussed, such exchanges could qualify as meetings and must comply with the
_ Act, Polly urged avoiding actions that could be perceived as circumventing the law.
Alta Planning Commission Meeting Minutes
February 26, 2025 . 6

Examples were provided to illustrate acceptable practices, such as communicating directly one-
: on-one with Town staff. Social events and casual interactions, such as meeting on a chairlift or
having dinner, are permissible if town business is not discussed. However, Polly cautioned
against post-meeting discussions or private deliberations that could undermine the transparency
of decision-making. It was noted that any decision must be discussed openly in meetings to
ensure public awareness and participation.
Polly also touched on the importance of preserving government records, such as emails and
messages, and recommended using official town email accounts to ensure compliance with
GRAMA requests. She then reviewed requirements for meeting locations, including anchor
locations for electronic meetings and exceptions during emergencies. She also discussed the
requirement that all meetings are recorded and have minutes published. Polly briefly discussed
the topic of closed meetings, explaining they are allowed for specific purposes, but that it is
. unlikely for the Planning Commission to convene a closed meeting.
Meeting notices and agendas must be posted at least 24 hours in advance and include sufficient
detail for the public to understand the topics. Emergency meetings require the maximum possible
: notice under the circumstances. Polly highlighted that public comments are welcomed on any
topic, but decisions can only be made on agenda-listed items. Jon Nepstad asked if the Planning
Commission could request that people giving public comments provide their zip code or address
before providing a public comment. Polly clarified that while it is something the Commission
can ask for, they could not limit someone’s ability to speak based on where they reside.
Polly noted that the minutes are considered the official record of the meeting, but that audio !
. recordings must also be retained indefinitely. Chris Cawley and Polly noted that Town staff
tends to strike a nice balance between a full transcript and a very general summary of the
meeting proceedings in how the minutes are presented. As members of the public body, the
Planning Commission can request the minutes be either more or less comprehensive to meet their
preference. |
Polly warned of serious consequences for knowingly violating the Act, including potential legal
ramifications. Polly provided additional training resources, including a link to receive a |
certificate of having completed the annual training requirement.
6. NEW BUSINESS
No new business. |
7. DATE OF NEXT MEETING
The next meeting is scheduled for March 26, 2025, at 3:00 PM. |
|
Alta Planning Commission Meeting Minutes
February 26, 2025 . 7 |
i

Planning Commission members and staff discussed potential details of an open-house style
meeting in March, but the date has not been determined. It was noted that the regular meeting
scheduled for March 26 may have to be rescheduled due to the timing of the open house.
Conversation continued about the logistics of an open house and how public feedback will be
received,
8. MOTION TO ADJOURN
Planning Commission member J eff Niermeyer moved to adjourn the meeting. Planning
Commission Member Maren Askins seconded the motion, and the motion was carried with
unanimous consent of the commission.
nr
Minutes Approved 6n March 2672025
i, é
ZL hris Cawley, Town Manager
Alta Planning Commission Meeting Minutes
February 26, 2025 8
