Planning Commission Work Meeting Minutes
                                 Thursday, August 18, 2022
                                  City Council Chambers
                                  220 East Morris Avenue
                                     Time: 7:00 p.m.

Commission Members Present:                 Laura Vernon, Chair
                                            Jeremy Carter
                                            Christy Dahlberg
                                            Chad Ewell
                                            Stacey Holscher
                                            Mary Anna Southey




                                              T
Staff Members Present:                      Brieanne Brass, Deputy City Attorney
                                            Randy Sant, Interim Community Development Director
                                            Eliza Ungricht, Interim Deputy Community Development
                                            Director
             AF                             Hanna Tuia, City Planner

Attendees:                                  Derek Webb
                                            Natalie Parkin
                                            Corinne Wilmarth
                                            Pearl Ellis
                                            Ranae Montoya
                                            Paul Smith
                                            Gary Dave
                                            Lorene Eatchel
                                            Andrea Martin
                                            Richard Lane
R
                                            Gary Doctorman
                                            Scott Romney
                                            Attila Papp
                                            Clarissa Williams
                                            Peter Lyman
                                            Sam Doctorman
                                            Charles Thorpe
D

                                            Tammie Woolsey
                                            William Woolsey
                                            Anthony Wright
                                            Jeff Kane
                                            Milton Tuia
                                            Rich DeLoney

Chair Laura Vernon called the meeting to order at 7:00 p.m. and welcomed Sergeant at Arms, Officer
Snow.
South Salt Lake City Planning Commission Meeting                                                 2
August 18, 2022


Pledge of Allegiance:                         Commissioner Holscher

Motion to approve the Agenda.

Motion:                                       Commissioner Carter

Second:                                       Commissioner Ewell

Vote:                                         Commissioner Carter – Aye;
                                              Commissioner Dahlberg – Aye;
                                              Commissioner Ewell – Aye;




                                                T
                                              Commissioner Holscher – Aye;
                                              Commissioner Southey – Aye;
                                              Chair Vernon – Aye.

                                              The vote was unanimous.

NEW BUSINESS

1.
              AF
        Public Meeting – C-22-005 – A Conditional Use Permit Application for Four (4)
        Electronic Message Center – Detached Pole Signs.

Action Item

Applicant:     Jose Correa
Address:       125 East 3300 South

Interim Deputy Community Development Director, Eliza Ungricht, presented the Staff Report and
R
stated that the request is for a Conditional Use Permit for four Electronic Message Center (“EMC”)
signs at 125 East 3300 South. The four detached pole signs were to be located at the Century 16
Theater. The proposed EMC signs are different in that they are part of an Electric Vehicle (“EV”)
charging station. A rendering of the site was presented. Each sign will be approximately nine square
feet in size for a total of 36 square feet. The Code allows up to 150 square feet of detached signage.
There are currently no existing signs on the property. Staff recommended that the Planning
D

Commission approve the application submitted by Jose Correa on behalf of Century 16 Theaters for
four EMC signs to be installed at the subject location based on the information presented and the
findings, conclusions of law, and conditions set forth in the staff report.

Chair Vernon asked what type of advertising will be done on the signs. Derek Webb from Volta
Charging stated that the advertising will relate to the location of the media screens. Because it is a
theater, it will likely advertise content related to the theater showings. Many of their screens also
advertise EV-related material. Mr. Webb explained that it depends on how the media is sold.
South Salt Lake City Planning Commission Meeting                                                 3
August 18, 2022


Chair Vernon asked about vandalism and wanted assurance that if damage is done that it will be
fixed within a short period of time. Mr. Webb stated that any vandalism needs to be reported. The
various reporting mechanisms were described.

Deputy City Attorney, Brieanne Brass, stated that one of the conditions of the Conditional Use
Permit provides 10-days’ notice for the property owner to take steps to correct the problem. It is
similar to the Graffiti Ordinance where notice is provided to the property owner who is given a
deadline with which to remedy a problem.

In response to a question raised, it was confirmed that there will be a screen on both sides of the
sign. Ms. Ungricht stated that it was factored in on one side. There are four chargers with signs on




                                                T
both sides. If double-sided, the size would equate to 72 square feet, which is still under the signage
allotment set forth in the Code. Clarification would be provided before issuing the permit.

Commissioner Southey was pleased that more EV charging stations are being added and that better
use was being made of the parking lot. Chair Vernon agreed and supported adding more EV
              AF
charging stations in the City.

Motion to approve the application submitted by Jose Correa for a Conditional Use Permit on
behalf of Century Theaters for four (4) EMC signs, to be installed at 125 East 3300 South,
based on the finding and conclusions of law included in the staff report with the following
conditions:

       1.      The light intensity may not exceed that produced by fifty-four (54) watts of
               incandescent lighting for daytime usage, as measured from the nearest public
               right-of-way. An automatic dimmer must be installed to reduce the nighttime
               intensity to that produced by thirty (30) watts of incandescent lighting, as
               measured from the nearest public right-of-way.
R
       2.      The signs may not operate between the hours of ten p.m. and six a.m.

       3.      The EMC signs, if damaged or vandalized, must be repaired within 10 days of
               notice provided to the property owner.
D

       4.      The digital face may not flash or scintillate except to change the displayed
               wording to different wording.

       5.      Any display on the digital face must remain lighted for at least two seconds.

       6.      A minimum of five percent of the sign use time shall be used for public service
               messages.

       7.      The maximum height of the EMC detached signs is 7 feet.

       8.      The maximum total area of the proposed detached EMC signs is 36 feet in area.
South Salt Lake City Planning Commission Meeting                                                    4
August 18, 2022




        9.     The applicant shall obtain a South Salt Lake City sign permit prior to any
               construction.

        10.    The proposed signs shall comply with all building and construction codes.

        11.    The EMCs will be used to advertise items, sales, services, or wares contained on
               the property in which it is located.

        12.    The proposed signs shall meet all requirements of Title 17.08.




                                                 T
Motion:                                        Commissioner Southey

Second:                                        Commissioner Carter

Vote:         AF                               Commissioner Carter – Aye;
                                               Commissioner Dahlberg – Aye;
                                               Commissioner Ewell – Aye;
                                               Commissioner Holscher – Aye;
                                               Commissioner Southey – Aye;
                                               Chair Vernon – Aye.

                                               The vote was unanimous.

2.      Public Hearing – S-22-001 – A Petition to Vacate a Public Alley Located Between 2101
        South State Street, 2115 South State Street, and 2121 South State Street.
R
Action Item

Applicant:     2121 Fedora, LLC
Address:       Between 2101 South State Street, 2115 South State Street, and 2121 South State
               Street
D

City Planner, Hanna Tuia, presented the Staff Report and stated that the request is for a vacation for
Busy Bee Property. This is the first step in a multi-step process. The applicant will also need to
complete a Subdivision Application. The portion of the alley that is proposed to be vacated is
between 2101, 2115, and 2121 South State Street. The alley provides access to the alley that runs
east to west. Some residents access their homes through the alley. Ms. Tuia identified the alley
access from the different locations on a map. The Alta Survey showed the existing alley that will
be vacated. She explained that a portion of the alley was vacated in 2016, at which time a legal
agreement was signed that provided access for the residents to continue using the parking lot and
the alley. There was to be an easement to cover a public water line but the easement was placed
incorrectly. The proposed petition will correct that and grant the City access to the line in its current
South Salt Lake City Planning Commission Meeting                                                   5
August 18, 2022


location. Busy Bee will gain the half-width portion of the vacated alley, and Starbucks will purchase
the other half. Busy Bee will purchase the remaining parts of the alley if the petition is granted.

The intent of the petition was to vacate the alley and allow the applicant to renovate the building and
add a drive-thru. Currently, the drive-thru with car-stacking limitations will not work. The applicant
owns the surrounding property and can use it for this purpose but it would require vacation of the
alley, which is a multi-step process. In order for the vacation to be approved, the subdivision would
need to be approved. One of the conditions of subdivision approval would be that public access
continue to be provided for residents who rely on the alley access. Staff recommended that the
Planning Commission forward a recommendation of approval to the City Council with the
conditions set forth in the Staff Report.




                                                T
In response to a question raised, Ms. Ungricht stated that several people access their homes through
the alley, and for some, it is their only access to their garage.

Chair Vernon opened the public hearing.
              AF
The applicant, Gary Doctorman, reported that many residents have access across the property to
their homes, which will continue.

Commissioner Carter asked how the property will be used and how the traffic flow will work with
the additional parcels. Mr. Doctorman identified the existing building and the location of the drive-
thru, which will accommodate up to five cars. The site circulation was described.

Commissioner Dahlberg asked if there was a concern with more than five cars stacking in the drive-
thru lane which would block the access for the residents. Mr. Doctorman stated that there is adequate
room for residents to drive around the cars in the lane to access the alley. He pointed out that it
meets the Code requirement for width.
R
Commissioner Carter asked if there were ways the City could implement signage and road striping
to ensure that the traffic flows as seamlessly as possible. Ms. Brass stated that there are enforcement
options available to the City. Mr. Doctorman reported that they submitted a Building Permit
Application and plan to paint lines on the roadway. He noted that the traffic flow is important to the
owners as well as the residents.
D

Commissioner Ewell asked about the width of the alley and whether it will accommodate two
vehicles. It was clarified that two cars cannot pass in the alley.

Ranae Montoya gave her address as 157 Commonwealth Avenue and stated that there are two
entrances into the alley. One is on 200 East and the other is at the entrance to Starbucks and Busy
Bee. Three of the homes utilize the alley access to get to their garages.

Corinne Wilmarth gave her address as 130 East Commonwealth Avenue and was concerned about
a lack of parking in the area. She wondered if the restaurants will be only drive-thrus or if there will
South Salt Lake City Planning Commission Meeting                                                  6
August 18, 2022


be foot traffic as well. Ms. Tuia responded that if the vacation of the alley and consolidation of the
parcels is approved, the restaurants will have access to all of the parking created on the larger lots.

Laura Lewis gave her address as 2160 Blair Street and wanted to ensure that it does not become a
problem area where cars back up at the drive-thru. Mr. Doctorman stated that there will be plenty
of parking and drive-thru lanes. While he cannot predict the future, he did not see a problem with
vehicles stacking on 2100 South or Commonwealth.

Commissioner Ewell asked if it does become a problem if it would be possible to change the
direction of the queue. Mr. Doctorman stated that that would be a good solution.




                                                T
Tammie Woolsey gave her address as 140 East Commonwealth Avenue and noticed that at Starbucks
the drive-thru is chaotic with people entering from various locations. She hoped to see directional
signage and one entrance to prevent confusion.

Pearl Ellis gave her address as 174 East Commonwealth Avenue and had concerns with parking and
traffic flow. AF
Ms. Wilmarth stated there could be problems if people exit the property and try to go down the alley.

Jeff Kane gave his address as 177 East Commonwealth and was concerned about the Starbucks
drive-thru. He stated that cars often dart out of the property which is dangerous. He expressed
concern with trash accumulating in the alley and the yards of residents. He was also concerned about
people traveling the wrong way on Commonwealth.

Richard Lane gave his address as 137 East Commonwealth and stated that there is a half-closure on
the lane with “Do Not Enter” signs that people ignore. Motorists enter off of State Street or from
Starbucks. He suggested there be a plan in place to discourage people from entering the one-way
R
lane. Mr. Doctorman stated that they posted a 'Right-Turn Only’ sign to keep people from traveling
east on Commonwealth in 2016. He asked for help from the City with enforcement.

Scott Romney, from Romney Investment Realty, stated said that one of the problems with the traffic
from Starbucks is that those exiting the drive-thru are allowed to make a left-hand turn. If it were
right-turn only much of the congestion problem would be mitigated. Another issue was a lack of
D

directional signage.

Commissioner Dahlberg asked if there is a median on 2100 South and if people are driving over it
to turn left. Mr. Romney stated that rather than turning right onto State Street, motorists are coming
back through the property and creating unnecessary congestion. There is a lot of available parking
that will be visible and usable. Mr. Romney commented that if they were able to add more
directional signage, they would be able to reduce traffic problems.

Tammie Woolsey commented said that if it were right-turn only out of Starbucks, the traffic would
back up and motorists would have a difficult time pulling onto State Street. For that reason, access
traveling east on Commonwealth was eliminated.
South Salt Lake City Planning Commission Meeting                                                  7
August 18, 2022



Richard Lane commented that the Starbucks drive-thru was not well designed.

Andrea Martin gave her address as 137 East Commonwealth and was concerned that people will
utilize the alley rather than go around the block. She agreed that the drive-thru at Starbucks is not
well designed. She asked if it would be possible to change the zoning of the property to allow for
multi-family housing.

Interim Community Development Director, Randy Sant, explained that the logistics of the traffic
flow will be part of the site plan. He will reach out to the residents at that time and explain how the
traffic flow will work and get feedback. He stated that multi-family housing will never be allowed




                                                T
on the parcel even if a zone change was granted. He noted that the current administration has
indicated that R-1 zones are to remain unchanged.

Jeff Kane asked if the entire lot will have one owner/developer after the alley vacation, which would
allow for commercial businesses. Potential uses for the property were discussed. Mr. Kane was
              AF
concerned about increased crime resulting from commercial development.

Commissioner Dahlberg stated that for the parcel to be consolidated with one landowner, someone
would have to purchase the other lot and join the plats. The amount of parking and the size of the
proposed building would depend on the use of the building and would have to go through the
approval process.

Mr. Doctorman reported that he recently renovated the existing building and has plans to do the
same with the Busy Bee Building. He commented that he has too much invested to do anything else.

There were no further public comments. Chair Vernon closed the public hearing.
R
Commissioner Carter commented that he has used the Starbucks parking lot and there is no median
on 2100 South. Exiting State Street is very difficult. There is an issue with Starbucks but the intent
going forward is to mitigate impacts on future development.

Commissioner Southey thanked the residents for their input. She felt it was risky to introduce a
drive-thru at this location and expressed her disapproval.
D

Ms. Brass commented that the decision tonight pertains to vacation of the alley. The Planning
Commission will make a recommendation to the City Council who will make the final decision.
Chair Vernon agreed with the concerns expressed and thanked those present.

Motion to forward a recommendation of APPROVAL of the application by 2121 Fedora, LLC
to the South Salt Lake City Council to vacate the public alley located between 2101 South State
Street, 2115 South State Street, and 2121 South State Street based on the analysis and findings
set forth in the staff report and the following conditions of approval:
South Salt Lake City Planning Commission Meeting                                               8
August 18, 2022


        1.     The applicant shall pay fair market value for all vacated property based on the
               appraisal conducted by South Salt Lake.

        2.     The applicant will submit and complete a subdivision plat application to
               consolidate all subject parcels within 180 days of the vacation approval.

        3.     As part of the subdivision approval, public utility and public access easements
               will need to be recorded to the satisfaction of the South Salt Lake Community
               Development Department and South Salt Lake Engineering.

        4.     All items of the staff report.




                                                 T
Motion:                                         Commissioner Dahlberg

Second:                                         Commissioner Holscher

Vote:         AF                                Commissioner Carter – Aye;
                                                Commissioner Dahlberg – Aye;
                                                Commissioner Ewell – Aye;
                                                Commissioner Holscher – Aye;
                                                Commissioner Southey – Aye;
                                                Chair Vernon – Aye.

                                                The vote was unanimous.

3.      Public Hearing – OA-22-008 – An Ordinance of the South Salt Lake City Council
        Amending Multiple Sections of Title 17 to Correct Technical Errors, to Update Certain
        Land Use Definitions, to Amend Certain Permitted Use and Conditional Use Standards,
R
        to Amend Certain General Development and Design Standards, and to Update the
        Land Use Matrix; and Amending the South Salt Lake City Zoning Map to Change the
        Zoning for Professional Office to Commercial Neighborhood, to Change the Zoning on
        the Corner of 2100 South and State Street from Professional Office and R1 Zones to
        Commercial Corridor, to Change the Zoning at 69 West 2700 South from Commercial
        Neighborhood to the R1 Zone, and to Change the Zoning at 413-433 East 2700 South
D

        from the RM Zone to the R1 Zone.

Action Item

Applicants:    South Salt Lake City, Rene and Jenneth Doria, Charles Thorpe, Meadow Brook
               Rehabilitation and Nursing

Ms. Ungricht presented the Staff Report and stated that the request is to modify Title 17. The first
proposed change pertained to the Definitions Chapter. The applicants would like to simplify some
definition wording to:
South Salt Lake City Planning Commission Meeting                                                9
August 18, 2022


   •   Add a definition for BioTech/Biolife to allow for new businesses in the City;
   •   Clarify language in Manufacturing Minor and Major that prohibits the manufacturing of
       hemp and tobacco products;
   •   Amend the Office, Medical, Dental, Health Care definition to add Mental Health acronyms;
   •   Change the Code to add a requirement to eliminate the requirement to be supervised by a
       medical doctor;
   •   Amend the Office Professional definition;
   •   Amend the Recording Studio definition;
   •   Allow for rehearsal and recording; and
   •   Amend the Variance definition to the original wording requiring the applicant to comply with




                                               T
       the State requirements.

The Land Use Districts and Matrix were reviewed. Ms. Ungricht presented the proposed changes
set forth in the Staff Report.

Chair Vernon asked if the intention of removing the Professional Office District was to allow for
             AF
different types of uses and not just office space. Ms. Ungricht explained that the proposed change
would allow for more uses beyond just office.

Commissioner Southey asked if there would be any further restrictions on landscaping to help with
the drought conditions. Mr. Sant responded that there was a discussion with the City Council the
previous month and the intent was to modify the ordinance to address some of the concerns raised.

Commissioner Dahlberg asked about the landscaping and if the requirement would be for a full
replacement of plant material in lieu of grass. Ms. Ungricht reported that previously the Code
required 75% grass but now allows any type of live plant material. She noted that the percentages
differ for residential and commercial.
R
Commissioner Dahlberg asked if rock or xeriscape would be allowed. Ms. Ungricht said that there
can be rocks in between the individual plants as long as the required percentage is provided per the
Code at maturity. The requirement for residential is 75% live plants. Mr. Sant stated that the intent
is to revise the Landscape Code but until then, the proposed minor change will be helpful.

Commissioner Dahlberg asked if changing the required percentages allows residents to qualify for
D

State-funded programs. Mr. Sant stated that it is a quick fix until they can revise the entire Code.
The option of applying for State grants was always open.

Ms. Ungricht commented on the proposed zone change for the property on the corner of 2100 South
and State Street. She stated that it should have been modified with the vacation of the alley in 2016
but was not. The current zoning is Commercial Corridor, Professional Office, and R-1 Residential.
The proposed zone is Commercial Corridor, which will consolidate the zone. Staff recommended
approval of the proposed changes.

Commissioner Dahlberg asked about the zone change at 413-433 East 2700 South and if there would
be a need for additional parking. Ms. Ungricht’s understanding was that the applicant plans to add
South Salt Lake City Planning Commission Meeting                                                10
August 18, 2022


landscaping in the back and move the parking to the opposite side. There would be the same amount
of parking but it would be reconfigured.

Chair Vernon opened the public hearing.

Natalie Parkin identified herself as the owner of the Skinworks School of Advanced Skincare. She
was concerned that she did not see her type of business on the list of approved businesses. She noted
that they have been in business in this location for 18 years. She was also concerned about the
percentage of required landscaping as she has no access to water on her property. She stated that
the small homes that are being converted into businesses are creating problems for her as they are
using the available parking.




                                               T
Ms. Ungricht stated that Ms. Parkin’s business would be grandfathered in under the Code in which
her business was approved. If her business were to change ownership, the use would follow the land
and would not be impacted. In response to a question raised, Ms. Ungricht stated that the
landscaping requirements in the new Code are a reduction from the current requirement.
             AF
Derek Degraff gave his address as 246 East 2100 South and stated that the Professional Office Zone
impacts his home. He was concerned that his home will be at risk if the new zone does not allow
for residential. Ms. Ungricht explained that residential in a Professional Office Zone is not a
permitted use; however, as long as it remains residential, it is grandfathered in.

Mr. DeGraff asked if there are parameters for signage in the zone. His neighbor recently posted a
new sign that is bright and shines into his home. He asked about conditions and limitations on
signage. Ms. Ungricht stated that the current Code puts all commercial uses together. Ms. Brass
added that there are standards for signs in the Code. Questions regarding a particular property could
be addressed through the Community Development Department. Mr. DeGraff asked about parking
along 2100 South. Ms. Ungricht stated that 2100 South is a Utah Department of Transportation
R
(“UDOT”) roadway and no parking is allowed there unless UDOT has given express permission.

Lorene Eatchel gave her address as 134 East Commonwealth and expressed concern with the area
being changed to commercial. She was concerned that someone could purchase the property and
develop more residential in the neighborhood, which is not what the residents want. She was also
worried about property taxes and asked if someone would be required to pay commercial property
D

tax rates on a home in a commercial zone. Ms. Ungricht stated that there are no applicants attached
to the proposal. Staff was simply proposing to combine the zone. If someone were to purchase the
properties, they would be required to go through the process, which is currently not in the City’s
Master Plan. Mr. Sant stated that the County sets property tax rates. If someone were to be assessed
for a commercial use while residing in a property, they could file an appeal with the County.

Ms. Ungricht clarified that the current zone is Professional Office. The primary change is to modify
the name of the zone to Commercial Neighborhood. Residential is prohibited in the zone. The
parking requirements will be addressed on a case-by-case basis.
South Salt Lake City Planning Commission Meeting                                                11
August 18, 2022


Mr. Kane expressed his displeasure with the change to commercial zoning due to problems with
parking, trash, and crime.

Peter Lyman gave his address as 2759 South Blair and expressed concern about changing the zoning
from residential to medium-density. He had noticed an increase in his water rates due to new
development. He did not understand why the City allows it if the developers cannot cover the cost.
He asked that the residents be considered. Ms. Ungricht clarified that multi-family units would not
be allowed on the parcel in question.

Commissioner Dahlberg asked if the City could require developers to pay for their development.
Mr. Sant stated that developers pay for the infrastructure and their share of new development. The




                                               T
rising cost of water is not part of that. Developers pay for the impact they create. Ms. Brass
commented that developers pay impact fees to help offset utility costs.

Laura Lewis, a Blair Street resident, was supportive of more walkability and businesses and prefers
to spend her money locally. She hoped to see the need for parking reduced.
             AF
Richard Lane gave his address as 137 East Commonwealth Avenue and acknowledged many of his
neighbors who were present. He cited parcels that may be appropriate for multi-family housing,
which was of concern to him. Ms. Ungricht reiterated that multi-family is not a permitted use in the
zone.

Anna Simmon, a Blair Street resident, thanked the Planning Commission for removing the parking
minimums along 2100 South. She hoped the area will become more walkable and to see parking
requirements removed and bike racks added. She asked about regulations for fencing for businesses
that border residential properties. Ms. Ungricht stated that the Code requires an eight-foot solid
fence abutting single-family residential properties.
R
Rich Deloney was present representing the nursing home on 2700 South. He clarified that there will
not be any additional development on the property. They simply want to make interior and exterior
improvements to the facility.

Anthony Wright thanked the Planning Commission for their efforts and gave his address as 250 East
2800 South. He plans to convert his residential home to a commercial use and noted that UDOT has
D

reported that on average 25,000 cars travel each day on 2100 South. He commended the Planning
Commission for their efforts to maintain the small business appeal in the City rather than
encouraging multi-family housing.

Ranae Montoya gave her address as 157 East Commonwealth and asked about maximum building
heights on the subject property. Ms. Ungricht stated that an office building could be built there but
the builder would have to meet all design and development standards. The maximum height allowed
would be 35 feet.

There were no further public comments. Chair Vernon closed the public hearing.
South Salt Lake City Planning Commission Meeting                                                   12
August 18, 2022


Commissioner Dahlberg recognized concerns regarding the nursing home but stated that making the
necessary zone changes and upgrading the building will benefit everyone. She agreed with
improving walkability in the area and making it a great place to live, work, and play. She
recommended reducing the percentage of plant materials in the landscape requirement.
Commissioner Southey considered this to be a great opportunity to address landscaping and water
concerns by eliminating the park strips and modifying the landscaping requirements. She
commented that other cities are also abolishing grass on slopes as it is difficult to water efficiently.

Commissioner Carter stated that developers often make improvements that enhance an area in the
form of new sidewalks, better lighting, and improved traffic patterns. He agreed with decreasing
the landscaping percentage and asked if it would allow for concrete or pavers to be used in the park




                                                T
strip in lieu of plant material. Ms. Ungricht stated that the Code specifies that in residential areas
the City allows concrete, gravel, stone, and mulch in park strips.

Commissioner Carter suggested that a recommendation be made to the City Council to change the
Code allowance. Ms. Brass noted that the Engineering Department considers the drainage issues
              AF
related to certain concrete pours and there is discretion and enforcement options. She asked that the
Planning Commission be specific in any recommendation made.

Commissioner Holscher asked for clarification on how much of the park strip will be concrete.
Commissioner Carter suggested that the option for concrete be removed entirely and stated that other
materials would allow for rainwater to seep into the ground rather than run off into the storm
drainage. Ms. Brass stated that the Code requires 75% be live vegetation. Commissioner Dahlberg
suggested that they be specific in terms of what would be allowed in lieu of live vegetation.
Commissioner Southey expressed support for concrete park strips, which ultimately make the
sidewalk wider. Commissioner Dahlberg commented that concrete would be difficult in terms of
the underground utilities. Ms. Ungricht reported that per the current Code, only 25% of the park
strip can be concrete.
R
Chair Vernon supported 25% concrete or pavers to allow for steps or walkways from the sidewalk
to the street. Commissioner Dahlberg recommended that they reduce the plant material requirement
from 75%. Ms. Ungricht stated that the proposed change only impacts the park strip and reduces
the planting material requirement from 75% to 50%. The major changes to the landscaping
requirements would come at a later time. Enforcement issues were discussed.
D

Motion to forward a recommendation of APPROVAL to the City Council for an ordinance
amending multiple sections of Title 17 of the South Salt Lake City Municipal Code to correct
technical errors, update certain land use definitions, amend certain permitted and conditional
use standards, amend certain general development and design standards, and update the land
use matrix. The motion also included amending the South Salt Lake City Zoning Map to
change the zoning for Professional Office to Commercial Neighborhood, change the zoning on
the corner of 2100 South and State Street from Professional Office and the R1 zones to
Commercial Corridor, change the zoning at 69 West 2700 South from Commercial
Neighborhood to the R1 zone, and change the zoning at 413-433 East 2700 South from the RM
zone to the R1 zone. Approval was subject to the following condition:
South Salt Lake City Planning Commission Meeting                                            13
August 18, 2022



         1.      There shall be no new grass in park strips, a maximum of 25% concrete, a
                 reduction of the 75% live material to 50% live plant material, and the remaining
                 25% to be the choice of the resident.

Motion:                                      Commissioner Dahlberg

Second:                                      Commissioner Holscher

Vote:                                        Commissioner Carter – Aye;
                                             Commissioner Dahlberg – Aye;




                                               T
                                             Commissioner Ewell – Aye;
                                             Commissioner Holscher – Aye;
                                             Commissioner Southey – Aye;
                                             Chair Vernon – Aye.

                 AF
CONTINUING BUSINESS

1.       None.

PLANNING COMMISSION BUSINESS
                                             The vote was unanimous.




     •   Approval of the July 21, 2022, Planning Commission Meeting Minutes.

Action Item
R
Motion to approve the Minutes of the July 21, 2022, Planning Commission Meeting Minutes.

Motion:                                      Commissioner Southey

Second:                                      Commissioner Carter
D

Vote:                                        Commissioner Carter – Aye;
                                             Commissioner Dahlberg – Aye;
                                             Commissioner Ewell – Aye;
                                             Commissioner Holscher – Aye;
                                             Commissioner Southey – Aye;
                                             Chair Vernon – Aye.

                                             The vote was unanimous.

STAFF BUSINESS – INFORMATION ITEMS
South Salt Lake City Planning Commission Meeting                             14
August 18, 2022


There was no staff business.
ADJOURNMENT

Motion to Adjourn:

Motion:                                     Commissioner Dahlberg

Second:                                     Commissioner Holscher

Vote:                                       Commissioner Carter – Aye;
                                            Commissioner Dahlberg – Aye;




                                              T
                                            Commissioner Ewell – Aye;
                                            Commissioner Holscher – Aye;
                                            Commissioner Southey – Aye;
                                            Chair Vernon – Aye.

             AF                             The vote was unanimous.

The Planning Commission Meeting adjourned at approximately 9:00 p.m.




                                                   For Planning Commission

________________________________
Community Development Director
R
D