AGENDA
                                                 PLANNING COMMISSION MEETING
                                                    Thursday, February 17, 2022
                                                       City Council Chambers
                                                     220 E. Morris Ave, 2nd Floor

                    **There will be no Planning Commission members at the anchor location of South Salt
                   Lake City Hall and Planning Commission will connect remotely through a Zoom meeting.
                   Members of the public may attend the public meeting through the use of the Zoom link
                                                    provided below.**

                   Planning Commission Chair Statement:

                   In accordance with Utah Code Ann. § 52-4-207(5) Open and Public Meetings Act, I, Laura
                   Vernon, have determined that conducting the Planning Commission meeting at an anchor
 ALEXANDRA
                   location presents a substantial risk to the health and safety of those who may be present
   WHITE
                   at the anchor location due to the large number of cases reported of the new variant of
 COMMUNITY         the coronavirus, SARSCoV-2.
DEVELOPMENT
  DIRECTOR         According to the Center for Disease Control, the Omicron Variant likely will spread more
                   easily than the original SARS-CoV-2 virus and the CDC expects that anyone with Omicron
                   infection can spread the virus to others even if they are vaccinated or don’t have
                   symptoms.

                   Considering the rise in cases, it is my intent to safeguard the lives of South Salt Lake City
                   residents, business owners, city staff and commission members by meeting remotely
                   through electronic means.

                   Dated: February 11, 2022

                   Signed: ___________________________

                   PLANNING COMMISSION WORK MEETING AT 6:00 P.M.

                     1. Title 17 Ordinance Amendments
                     2. Small Cell Wireless Facility Ordinance Amendment
                   PLANNING COMMISSION MEETING

                     No regular meeting will be held on this date.
                     The next regular meeting is scheduled to be held on March 3, 2022.

                   Please click the link below to join the webinar:
                   https://zoom.us/j/95185889967?pwd=MExDOTBKSmw2OVNod2NwSE5NblFQQT09
                   Passcode: 513816
                   Or One tap mobile :
                      US: +12532158782,,95185889967#,,,,*513816# or +13462487799,,95185889967#,,,,*513816#
                   Or Telephone:
CHERIE WOOD           Dial(for higher quality, dial a number based on your current location):
                         US: +1 253 215 8782 or +1 346 248 7799 or +1 669 900 6833 or +1 301 715 8592 or +1 312 626
    MAYOR
                         6799 or +1 929 205 6099 or 833 548 0282 (Toll Free) or 877 853 5257 (Toll Free) or 888 475 4499 (Toll
220 E MORRIS AVE         Free) or 833 548 0276 (Toll Free)
     SUITE 200     Webinar ID: 951 8588 9967
SOUTH SALT LAKE    Passcode: 513816
       UTAH           International numbers available: https://zoom.us/u/aqH6dS4Bv
       84115
 O 801.483.6000
  F 801.483.6001         IN COMPLIANCE WITH THE AMERICANS WITH DISABILITIES ACT, INDIVIDUALS NEEDING AUXILLARY
                      COMMUNICATIVE AIDS OR OTHER SERVICES FOR THIS MEETING SHOULD CONTACT SEAN LEWIS, (801) 483-
    SSLC.COM
                                                6010, GIVING AT LEAST 24 HOURS NOTICE.
MAYOR@SSLC.COM
                             Planning Commission Work Meeting Minutes
                                 Thursday, February 17, 2022
                                    City Council Chambers
                                   220 East Morris Avenue
                                        Time 6:00 p.m.

Commission Members Present:                  Laura Vernon, Chair
                                             Jeremy Carter
                                             Christy Dahlberg
                                             Chad Ewell
                                             Stacey Holscher
                                             Mary Anna Southey
                                             George Pechmann

Staff Members Present:                       Alexandra White, Community Development Director
                                             Sean Lewis, Deputy Community Development Director
                                             Eliza Ungricht, City Planner
                                             Taylor Greenwell, City Planner
                                             Brieanne Brass, Deputy City Attorney
                                             Hanna Tuia, City Planner

Attendants:                                  Bill Hardesty

Chair Laura Vernon called the meeting to order at 6:00 p.m. and read the Chair Statement.

1.     Title 17 Ordinance Amendments.

Community Development Director, Alexandra White reported that the first item on the Work
Meeting Agenda was related to Title 17 Ordinance amendments. There were amendments made to
Title 17 in 2019 and 2020. That work pertained to reorganizing the Code, making sure it complied
with State Law, and removing errors and typos so it was more user-friendly. The newly proposed
amendments would be in line with the previous changes but there were also policy discussion items.
Ms. White stated that she would share a summary of the proposed amendments and then there would
be information about the policy discussion items. She asked that the Planning Commission share
input related to the policy discussion section.

There was a proposal to amend Title 3.11 – Consolidated Fee Schedule, in the City of South Salt
Lake Municipal Code. Ms. White explained that the City wanted to change the way public noticing
is done. Currently, blank envelopes with mailing labels and stamps are used and there is an 8” x 11”
sheet of paper that explains that project. Instead of stuffing envelopes for every project, the City
wanted to create formal postcards similar to what is used in other jurisdictions. The postcards would
have all of the same information that was on the 8” x 11” sheet of paper and would be compliant
with State Law. The Consolidated Fee Schedule needed to be changed because there was a cost
difference. It was anticipated that it would cost $2 per mailer, including the cost of the stamp.
South Salt Lake City Planning Commission Work Meeting                                             2
February 17, 2022

Another proposed amendment was Title 15.04 – Flood Damage Prevention. It currently listed the
Community Development Director as the Floodplain Manager, but she wanted to amend that to give
the title to the City Engineer. That was an engineering function and it made more sense for the City
Engineer to have that responsibility. Title 17.01 – Definitions had some minor errors and typos that
needed to be corrected. There were also new definitions that would be added. Title 17.03 – Land-
Use Districts and Matrix defined all of the land-use districts in the City. There were a few typos and
a few clarifications needed in that section. Additionally, a policy discussion was needed regarding
Accessory Dwelling Units (“ADU”) and whether they should be added to the R1 and RM District.
Staff was also looking to change two-zone names based on the General Plan adoption. Ms. White
reported that some modifications were made to the Land Use Matrix based on proposed uses in the
Downtown District.

Title 17.04 – Permitted Use Review contained a few typos that needed to be corrected. However,
the significant issue was the Conditional Use section of the Code that had not been moved to the
correct section. It needed to be removed from 17.04 and placed in 17.05 instead. Title 17.05 –
Conditional Use Review had some corrections related to home occupation as well. The indoor
climate-controlled storage use would be discussed by the Commission later on in the Work Meeting.
Title 17.06 – General Development Standards talked about landscaping, parking, and Site Plan
layouts. Ms. White reported that an applicant petitioned for an Ordinance amendment. Due to an
oversight, parking standards for parking structures were not included in 17.06. The section only
included standards for surface parking. There were slight differences and the Ordinance needed to
be modified to include that information. Ms. White noted that one section of Title 17.06 was flagged
due to the Legislative Session. There was a bill related to landscape standards and the
implementation of more water-wise development that Staff would keep an eye on.

Commissioner Pechmann wondered if the parking lot changes would create more space per stall or
less. Ms. White reported that the current standard for surface parking outside of a parking structure
was a 9’ x 20’ parking stall with a 26-foot drive aisle. That was largely driven by the Fire Code and
allowed there to be access for fire trucks and Emergency Medical Services (“EMS”) vehicles.
However, fire trucks and EMS vehicles do not enter parking structures for a variety of reasons. The
applicant petitioned to have a 9’ x 18’ parking stall with a 24-foot drive aisle instead. Commissioner
Pechmann asked if that would result in more stalls within parking structures. Ms. White did not
believe it would result in more stalls. It would condense the width needed so the structure could be
engineered without having additional concrete pillars throughout.

Title 17.07 – Design Standards would include some minor cleanup. Most of what was proposed in
the section had to do with ADUs. Ms. White explained that there was also a section related to
climate-controlled storage facilities and the design standards that applied to those commercial
buildings. Title 17.10 – Subdivision and Platting had a reference repeated throughout that needed
to be corrected. It referred to a Streets Master Plan, but in the General Plan, where the Master Plan
is located, it is called the Roadways and Functional Classifications Plan. There was also a proposal
to amend some of the standard road profiles in that section.

Ms. White further discussed the proposed amendments. Title 17.03 proposed to remove the
Professional Office District, which is largely for properties between State Street and 500 East that
front 2100 South. That district would be consolidated with the Commercial Neighborhood District.
South Salt Lake City Planning Commission Work Meeting                                               3
February 17, 2022

Ms. White explained that many of the standards are the same. Although the Professional Office
District was implemented 20 years ago, it had never really developed. As a result, it made sense to
change it to the Commercial Neighborhood District. The standards were close to what exists
currently but would give direction to anyone who wants to redevelop their property or focus on
neighborhood-level development along the corridor. She noted that the amendment would not
address high-density development. There would need to be a future discussion about larger scale
and higher-density development along the corridor.

It was also proposed that the TOD District, which runs between I-80 and 3900 South be changed to
the Mixed-Use District. The uses were the same between the two districts. Ms. White explained
that the reason for the proposed change was to eliminate confusion about being in a TOD District
when the area was multiple miles away from a rail station or transit. It was anticipated that in the
future there will be a Neighborhood Master Plan in those areas and additional amendments and
design standards could be implemented on a neighborhood-by-neighborhood basis.

Ms. White shared information related to ADUs. There had been preliminary discussions about
internal and external ADUs at a previous Planning Commission Meeting. She reported that there
will likely be some modifications to the State Law as it related to ADUs, and as a result, the currently
proposed amendments are only a draft. According to the State, cities must allow Internal Accessory
Dwelling Units (“IADU”) in any residential district that allows single-family uses. The proposals
in 17.03 and 17.07 would bring the Ordinance into compliance with current State Laws. Ms. White
reported that the draft language stated that IADUs can be inside the primary structure (attic,
basement, main floor). One ADU is permitted per parcel where a single-family dwelling unit is the
primary building. Staff was considering a requirement for one additional on-site parking stall and
design standards to specify that the ADU cannot change the character or appearance of the home
from the exterior. Additionally, the unit must have a designated entrance. This was due to public
safety as it would make it easier for the Fire Department to identify when an ADU is present on a
service call. No separate utility meters were proposed and owner-occupancy is required. A Business
License with South Salt Lake City would be needed and short-term rentals in any ADU would be
prohibited.

Commissioner Holscher wondered what a short-term rental was defined as. Ms. White explained
that it is a rental of fewer than 30 days. Commissioner Dahlberg asked if there were any
specifications related to parking for internal ADUs. Ms. White noted that the State allows cities to
require parking on-site. After speaking with the City Council and looking at parcel sizes in the City,
the proposal was for one additional on-site parking space. She reported that most of the lots are
skinny and long, and most of the single-family homes have detached garages in the rear, with single-
lane driveways. Ms. White believed that parking would be a significant topic of discussion for the
Planning Commission and City Council. There would likely be discussions about how to manage
on-street parking due to overflow as well.

Ms. White explained that the second part of the ADU discussion pertained to External Accessory
Dwelling Units (“EADU”). There is no State Law regulating EADUs currently, but it is something
that the Legislature was looking at. If something is passed during the Legislative Session, some
changes would need to be made to the draft language. The draft language specifies that EADUs are
to be allowed in residential districts where single-family homes are permitted. One EADU is
South Salt Lake City Planning Commission Work Meeting                                                4
February 17, 2022

allowed per parcel where a single-family dwelling unit is the primary building. Staff believed the
minimum lot size for an EADU should be 8,000 square feet. Some of the smaller lots in South Salt
Lake are 6,000 square feet in size and there is not enough room or flexibility to fit a second structure,
with all of the requirements, onto a lot of that size.

It was proposed that the height of an EADU be the same as the primary structure or smaller. For the
maximum size, it was proposed that EADUs be less than 50% of the total square footage of the
home, not including the garage or 700 square feet. The EADU cannot cover more than 50% of the
rear yard and there are required setbacks on the structure. Ms. White reported that the draft language
referenced one on-site parking stall, no short-term rentals, and no separate utility meters. A Business
License would be required with the owner occupancy. She explained that there would be several
design standards as well. For instance, EADUs must be connected to public utility infrastructure.
If the structure has HVAC and mechanical equipment it needs to be internally located on the
property. The EADU needs to have an entrance into the unit so that it is clearly identifiable as a
separate unit.

Access to an EADU will vary. If the unit is on the ground floor, there needs to be a front door to the
unit at grade level. If the unit is on a second floor (above a garage) there needs to be a door at grade
with an internally located stairway to reach the second floor. The City did not want to have
externally located staircases for those ADUs. If the unit is in a basement, an externally located
staircase makes sense because the unit is below grade. The materials for the exterior of the ADU
should match the architectural style, roofline, materials, and colors of the primary building. Several
example images were shared with the Commission. If an above-grade or second-story balcony is
proposed, it would be prohibited on the facades that face abutting properties. Balconies could be
internal to the property that is proposing the ADU. All EADUs need to comply with the International
Building Code and Fire Code requirements. EADUs also needed to be permanent structures that are
affixed to a foundation.

Commissioner Pechmann asked if an ADU requires rent be charged. Ms. White reported that it is
defined as a standalone residential dwelling unit. State Law does not address if a fee is associated
with it. She flagged it as a question for the Legal Department to address at a later date. Ms. White
commented that part of the reason for the separate entrance for the ADU is for mail purposes but
also as identification for the Fire Department, Police Department, or EMS.

Ms. White overviewed additional policy discussion items. She explained that the parking structure
issue was an oversight in the last amendment. Although an applicant proposed the amendment, the
decision would impact a number of different projects. As for internal climate-controlled storage
units, an applicant petitioned to build one in the Downtown District. South Salt Lake does not
currently have an Ordinance addressing that specific type of structure in the City. In the past, outdoor
garage storage units have been permitted. The market changed and climate-controlled buildings are
becoming the norm. One particular applicant was looking to potentially build this type of storage
unit and to do that the Ordinance would need to be amended. Staff recommended internal climate-
controlled storage units as a Conditional Use. As part of the Conditional Use Permit process, the
applicant would be asked to:

   •   Comply with all of the design standards;
South Salt Lake City Planning Commission Work Meeting                                                5
February 17, 2022

     •   Comply with all of the development standards found in Title 17.06;
     •   Conduct all business operations within the enclosed structure;
     •   Have on-site management and security;
     •   Have a security plan to prevent the deterioration of public health and safety;
     •   Have a lighting plan to mitigate issues on-site;
     •   Maintain best management practices;
     •   Have an access plan for loading and services; and
     •   Have an energy efficiency plan.

Ms. White explained that the design standards are in draft form. The intention was to add a building
form into Title 17.07 that addresses the internal climate-controlled storage units specifically. She
noted that there is a section that addresses the types of exterior materials that will be allowed. There
was also information about the downtown standards, primary entrances, and façade depth variations.
Appropriate fencing and a security plan were necessary to prevent theft issues. Chain link and vinyl
fencing would be prohibited and access would be through an access-controlled gate. The gate would
be part of the security and management plan. Ms. White discussed loading areas. It was important
that there be appropriate configurations to deal with different vehicles sizes while still maintaining
emergency access.

Staff was working through final edits for the proposed amendments and the Legal Department would
begin its review of the draft Ordinance shortly. Once the Legislative Session was over, the
Ordinance would be noticed for a public hearing and it would come back to the Planning
Commission for a more formal review of the material.

2.       Small Cell Wireless Facility Ordinance Amendment.

Deputy Community Development Director, Sean Lewis reported that the second item on the Work
Meeting Agenda was related to Small Cell Wireless Facilities. It included proposed language that
would cover newer technology. He explained that technology is constantly changing, and while
there is plenty of connectivity for various services, as more people connect to the existing tower
network, density is lost. As the towers become denser, people lose signals and connectivity. The
cell tower industry is regulated by the Federal Government and the State of Utah. As a result, the
City has limited options for regulation. The biggest hurdle was the sighting of antennas. Most
residents do not want to see antennas and it is important to find locations that work for the cell
phone companies, the City, and the residents.

South Salt Lake City wants to be predictable for the carriers. Mr. Lewis explained that the carriers
often complain that there is not enough direction, so the intention was to create language that is
both clear and predictable. The City wants to clearly state the goals related to small cell tower
locations, improve the density of the towers, streamline the application processes, work within the
constraints of the existing infrastructure, and limit visual impacts for those who live, work, and
visit South Salt Lake.

Mr. Lewis shared images of existing small cell towers and stated that there are several different
versions in the area. For instance, there is a small cell tower along 500 East, which was 40 to 50
feet high. It is a standalone tower that is not attached to anything else. That is what carriers prefer
South Salt Lake City Planning Commission Work Meeting                                                 6
February 17, 2022

because it is easier to access and service. Aesthetically, the City does not care for standalone
towers and does not want them on every street. Ms. White explained that a small cell tower must
be located every 200 to 500 feet on every street to work. The reason for the proposed amendments
had to do with changes to the distance that the technology ran.

Staff proposed attached antennas that could be placed on light poles in the City. Not only would
this be predictable for the carriers, but it would limit visual clutter in the City. Mr. Lewis explained
that the proposed amendments would be in Title 12 because the language was related to the right-
of-way. No amendments were proposed to the tower language in Title 17. If a carrier wants to
come in with a traditional monopole or stealth tower, the existing Code would handle that. The
new language was for small cell towers that want to be in the right-of-way. He noted that the
carriers like to be in the right-of-way because it is slightly less expensive and easier to access.
There would be a Franchise Agreement or license needed and the City would receive some
revenue. Mr. Lewis reported that the applications will be an administrative process and it would
not need to come to the Planning Commission each time. Carriers could have up to 25 poles on
one license.

Ms. White noted that according to State Law, the City is not allowed to deny this type of
infrastructure within the City. However, the City can implement design standards and put certain
regulations in place. Chair Vernon asked if there are guidelines to dictate how far apart the
antennas need to be from one another. Mr. Lewis explained that there needs to be some separation
to ensure that the signals do not interfere with one another. There would likely be a 200 to 500-
foot distance between them.

Commissioner Ewell asked if it is possible to prevent having many different types of poles
scattered throughout the City. Mr. Lewis stated that this would be done through the Lighting
Master Plan. As antennas are put onto street poles, certain design standards for light poles would
be followed. There is a certain visual identity that the City wants to have. It is also important to
look at the size and scope of the antennas. The Code language referred to a volume of a cylinder
that would be allowed. Mr. Lewis added that many of the existing streetlights are on wood poles
and these types of cell towers cannot be placed on wood poles. As a result, there would need to
be upgrades to metal poles. Ms. White clarified that the upgrade would be an applicant expense
and not a City expense. Mr. Lewis did not believe the Lighting Master Plan would need to be
amended further.

Ms. White informed the Planning Commission that the next meeting would likely take place in
person. It was scheduled for March 3, 2022, and it would be another Work Meeting.

The Planning Commission Work Meeting adjourned at approximately 7:06 p.m.
Tile 17 Code
Update
SSLC Planning Commission
Work Meeting
February 17, 2022
 Code Sections Being Amended
Amending Title 3.11                  Amending Title 17.06
  • Building, Planning, and Zoning     • General Development
Amending Title 15.04                     Standards
  • Flood Damage Prevention          Amending Title 17.07
Amending Title 17.01                   • Design Standards
  • Definitions Chapter              Amending Title 17.10
Amending Title 17.03                   • Subdivision and Platting
  • Land-use Districts and Matrix    Amending East Street Car
Amending Title 17.04                   • General Parking Requirement
  • Permitted Use Review             Amending Downtown Code
Amending Title 17.05                   • General Parking Requirements
  • Conditional Use Review
Zone Changes
• Remove and replace
  the Professional
  Office district with the
  Commercial
  Neighborhood
  district.

• Remove and replace
  the Transit Oriented
  Development (TOD)
  district with the Mixed
  Use district.
Internal Accessory Dwelling Units
External Accessory Dwelling Units
Parking Structures
Indoor Climate Controlled Storage
Small Cell
Wireless
Facilities
SSLC Planning Commission
February 17, 2022
Wireless Telecommunications

• Technology is changing
• More devices = more need for connectivity
  • Density vs Capacity
• City has limited options to regulate
• Siting of antennas is biggest hurdle
Goals of Ordinance

• Predictability for carriers
• Clearly state City’s goals
• Improve carrier density to improve wireless service for residents
• Streamline application processes
• Work within constraints of existing infrastructure
• Limit visual and other impacts to residents and visitors
• What we are used to:
  Monopole Towers
• What we are used to:
  “Stealth”
• What we are used to:
  Attached Antenna
• Proposed Infrastructure:
  Stand Alone Antenna
    • Separate Structure
    • Usually similar height
      to older antennas
    • Carrier preferred for
      access issues
• Proposed Infrastructure:
  Attached Antenna
    • Uses existing structure
    • Limited height (50’/10’)
    • City preferred