AGENDA
                                            PLANNING COMMISSION MEETING
                                                  Thursday, April 7, 2022
                                                  City Council Chambers
                                                220 E. Morris Ave, 2nd Floor

                   PLANNING COMMISSION MEETING AT 7:00 P.M.

                   Pledge of Allegiance:   George Pechmann
                   Approve Agenda:         Chair Laura Vernon

                   PLANNING COMMISSION BUSINESS

                                           Election of a new vice-chairperson for 2022
 ALEXANDRA
   WHITE           NEW BUSINESS
 COMMUNITY
DEVELOPMENT        1. PUBLIC HEARING       A RECOMMENDATION TO THE SOUTH SALT LAKE CITY
  DIRECTOR
                                           COUNCIL TO ADOPT AN ORDINANCE ENACTING SECTION
                                           12.61 AND AMENDING SECTION 3.11 OF THE SOUTH SALT
                                           LAKE MUNICIPAL CODE TO ENACT STANDARDS REGARDING
                                           THE SITING OF WIRELESS FACILITIES, AND WIRELESS SUPPORT
                                           STRUCTURES WITHIN CITY OWNED RIGHTS-OF-WAY, TO
                                           CONFORM THE SOUTH SALT LAKE CITY CODE WITH RECENT
                                           MANDATES IN STATE LAW AND TO ADJUST THE
                                           CONSOLIDATED FEE SCHEDULE TO ADDRESS NEW FEES
                                           RELATING TO WIRELESS FACILITIES.
                                           ACTION ITEM
                     Applicant:            South Salt Lake City

                   CONTINUING BUSINESS

                                           None at this time

                   PLANNING COMMISSION BUSINESS

                                           Approval of the February 3, 2022 Planning Commission Minutes
                                           ACTION ITEM

                                           Approval of the March 17, 2022 Planning Commission Minutes
                                           ACTION ITEM

                   STAFF BUSINESS – INFORMATION ITEMS

                                           None at this time
CHERIE WOOD
    MAYOR

220 E MORRIS AVE
     SUITE 200
SOUTH SALT LAKE
       UTAH
       84115
 O 801.483.6000
  F 801.483.6001       IN COMPLIANCE WITH THE AMERICANS WITH DISABILITIES ACT, INDIVIDUALS NEEDING AUXILLARY
                    COMMUNICATIVE AIDS OR OTHER SERVICES FOR THIS MEETING SHOULD CONTACT SEAN LEWIS, (801) 483-
    SSLC.COM
                                              6010, GIVING AT LEAST 24 HOURS NOTICE.
MAYOR@SSLC.COM
                               Planning Commission Meeting Minutes
                                   Thursday, April 7, 2022
                                   City Council Chambers
                                   220 East Morris Avenue
                                      Time: 7:00 p.m.

Commission Members Present:                 Laura Vernon, Chair
                                            Jeremy Carter
                                            Christy Dahlberg
                                            Chad Ewell
                                            Liz Gabbitas
                                            George Pechmann
                                            Mary Anna Southey

Staff Members Present:                      Alexandra White, Community Development Director
                                            Eliza Ungricht, City Planner
                                            Taylor Greenwell, City Planner
                                            Brieanne Brass, Deputy City Attorney
                                            Hanna Tuia, City Planner

Attendees:                                  Bill Hardesty

Chair Laura Vernon called the meeting to order at 7:00 p.m.

Pledge of Allegiance:                       Commissioner Pechmann

PLANNING COMMISSION BUSINESS

Approval of Planning Commission Meeting Agenda

Motion to Approve the Planning Commission Meeting Agenda:

Motion:                                     Commissioner Carter

Second:                                     Commissioner Ewell

Vote:                                       Commissioner Carter – Aye;
                                            Commissioner Dahlberg – Aye;
                                            Commissioner Ewell – Aye;
                                            Commissioner Gabbitas – Aye;
                                            Commissioner Pechmann – Aye;
                                            Commissioner Southey – Aye;
                                            Chair Laura Vernon – Aye.

                                            The vote was unanimous.
South Salt Lake City Planning Commission Meeting                                                 2
April 7, 2022


Deputy City Attorney, Brieanne Brass reported that the election of a new Vice-Chair requires
nominations, a majority vote, and a roll call. Chair Vernon believed that during previous discussions,
Commissioner Pechmann expressed interest in the position. As a result, she nominated
Commissioner Pechmann to serve as Vice-Chair. The motion was seconded by Commissioner
Southey. Commissioner Pechmann accepted the nomination.

Election of New Vice-Chair for 2022

Motion to Elect Commissioner Pechmann to serve as Vice-Chair for 2022:

Motion:                                       Chair Vernon

Second:                                       Commissioner Southey

Vote:                                         Commissioner Carter – Aye;
                                              Commissioner Dahlberg – Aye;
                                              Commissioner Ewell – Aye;
                                              Commissioner Gabbitas – Aye;
                                              Commissioner Pechmann – Abstain;
                                              Commissioner Southey – Aye;
                                              Chair Laura Vernon – Aye.

                                              The vote was unanimous with one abstention.

NEW BUSINESS

1.      Public Hearing – A Recommendation to the South Salt Lake City Council to Adopt an
        Ordinance Enacting Section 12.61 and Amending Section 3.11 of the South Salt Lake
        Municipal Code to Enact Standards Regarding the Siting of Wireless Facilities, and
        Wireless Support Structures within City-Owned Rights-of-Way, to Conform the South
        Salt Lake City Code with Recent Mandates in State Law and to Adjust the Consolidated
        Fee Schedule to Address New Fees Relating to Wireless Facilities. ACTION ITEM.

Applicant:     South Salt Lake City

Ms. Brass reported that there was a Small Cell Ordinance Draft document included in the packet for
review. She explained that in 2018, the State of Utah passed the Small Wireless Facilities
Deployment Act, which limited the authority of cities to regulate the location of small cell wireless
facilities, except when those located within the City right-of-way or the area between property lines
where a street is usually located. The Small Cell Ordinance would outline design standards and
application procedures that all small cell facilitates would have to go through. Additionally, the
Ordinance would assist Staff on an administrative level.

The purpose of the Small Cell Ordinance was to be consistent and reasonable. Ms. Brass pointed
out that the Small Wireless Facilities Deployment Act included the word “reasonable” 13 times. It
South Salt Lake City Planning Commission Meeting                                                  3
April 7, 2022


was a priority for the State. She explained that it was important to process small cell facility
applications in a non-discriminatory fashion. The Small Cell Ordinance was fully consistent with
State Law. It states that wireless providers need to place the facilities in accordance with the City’s
design standards. It also outlined all of the fees that would be charged for the application and for
each facility placed within the City. Permissible and discretionary uses were also overviewed.

Commissioner Gabbitas compared the draft against other policy recommendation documents, such
as the Schools, Health, and Libraries Broadband Coalition. She felt their recommendations were
relevant to what was being done in South Salt Lake. Commissioner Gabbitas was glad to see that
the draft prioritized equitable consideration of the applications. However, there were a few issues
she wanted to raise. She read the following language:

   •   12.61.030 - License Applications and Other Requirements for Use of the Right-of-Way
           o 3(D): If applicable, an industry-standard pole load analysis indicating that the Utility
              Pole or Wireless Support Structure on which the Wireless Facility will be mounted
              will safely support the load.

Commissioner Gabbitas wondered what type of situation would be considered applicable. Ms. Brass
explained that it had to do with the type of structure that the applicant wants to mount. What was
previously presented to the Planning Commission and City Council was the idea of colocation but
there were challenges associated with that. For instance, the poles need to be engineered to hold the
weight of the structure itself. That specific section was related to how the Engineering Department
would review the proposed pole or proposed structure the equipment would be on in order to ensure
that it meets all engineering standards. Ms. Brass noted that the applicant would need to provide the
designs and proposed poles for the Engineering Department to review. The Engineering Department
would have the discretion to request the industry-standard pole load analysis whenever it was
deemed necessary.

Commissioner Pechmann believed the language meant that an applicant could not attach a cell
device to something like an older billboard without Engineering Department review. Ms. Brass
confirmed this. She explained that a lot of the requirements came from the International Building
Code and International Engineering Standards. They were the requirements the Engineering
Department would refer to when making those types of determinations. Commissioner Gabbitas
wondered if it was a tool for the Engineering Department to request more information when needed.
Ms. Brass stated that it was. Commissioner Gabbitas also had a question related to the following:

   •   12.61.060 – Processing Applications
          o 2(C): Applications for new, modified, or replacement Utility Poles shall be approved
              or denied within 105 days after the day when the City receives a complete application.
              The City may extend this deadline by a single additional period of 10 days by sending
              the applicant written notice of the extension before the applicable deadline.

Commissioner Gabbitas noted that one of the main policy recommendations of the Schools, Health,
and Libraries Broadband Coalition had to do with quick turnaround times. This was especially
important due to the grant funding that was available through the Infrastructure Bill. A lot of
South Salt Lake City Planning Commission Meeting                                                  4
April 7, 2022


broadband funding would be coming to Utah to expand access. 105-day turnarounds on applications
meant that the window to use that grant funding would be closed. She wondered why the turnaround
time was so long. Community Development Director, Alexandra White reported that an outside
attorney had coordinated with several providers. There had been a lot of back and forth on the legal
side of things. The 105-day timeframe was a maximum and not a minimum. Ms. Brass explained
that the timeframe listed was also State Law.

Commissioner Gabbitas made note of the following section in the draft document:

   •   12.61.090 – Modifications of Wireless Facilities:
           o 3(C): the installation, placement, maintenance, operation, or replacement of a Micro
              Wireless Facility that is strung on a cable between existing Utility Poles in
              compliance with the National Electrical Safety Code.

She explained that this referenced a provider who already has a license, is operating, and doing
regular maintenance on their equipment. If the provider was upgrading the equipment, and the
equipment was the same size or smaller, that was appropriate. However, it sounded as if the
equipment was slightly larger, the provider would need to go through the application process again.
Ms. White noted that as technology changed, new equipment would slowly shrink in size.
Commissioner Gabbitas agreed that technology was getting smaller, but wanted to know what would
happen if a new piece of equipment was installed that was slightly larger than the existing equipment.
For instance, whether a new application would need to be submitted. Ms. Brass confirmed that a
new application was needed. Commissioner Gabbitas was uncertain about that requirement.

Ms. White reported that a lot of the maintenance for small cell companies involved switching out
panels or electrical gear. A significant amount of maintenance went into those facilities. The City
did not want to go through the entire agreement process every time a small component needs to be
switched out. If different equipment was being considered, the application process would need to
start over because it may impact the design standards or the Engineering Department review.
Commissioner Gabbitas thanked her for the information. She asked how the fee structure was
determined. Ms. Brass explained that it came from State Code.

Commissioner Pechmann reported that 12.61.090 3(B) states that a new application would not be
needed for the replacement of a Small Wireless Facility with a Small Wireless Facility that is
substantially similar or smaller in size. He questioned the use of the phrase, “substantially similar.”
Ms. White explained that the language could be flagged and looked into further internally if desired
by the Commission. Commissioner Gabbitas identified a typo in 12.61.080 under Section 2.

Chair Vernon hoped that the allowance of the small cells would negate the need for the large cell
facilities that concern residents with pacemakers. Ms. White explained that there would still be both
because City Code allows for large cell facilities. The larger towers project further and the small
cells are intended to be more narrowed in. The small cells are lower to the ground and closer
together, which means there would be more of them throughout the community.

Chair Vernon opened the public hearing. There were no comments. The public hearing was closed.
South Salt Lake City Planning Commission Meeting                                           5
April 7, 2022



Commissioner Southey thanked Commissioner Gabbitas for her due diligence and for having several
questions prepared in advance of the Planning Commission Meeting. Ms. Brass reported that the
Planning Commission had the following three options:

        1.    Forward a recommendation to approve the Ordinance;

        2.    Forward a recommendation to deny the Ordinance; or

        3.    Table the decision to a later date.

Council Member Carter wondered if the item needed to be tabled to fix the minor typos mentioned.
Ms. Brass explained that the Planning Commission could forward the recommendation with the
suggested changes specified in the motion.

Motion to forward a recommendation to the South Salt Lake City Council to adopt an
Ordinance enacting Section 12.61 and amending Section 3.11 of the South Salt Lake Municipal
Code to enact standards regarding the siting of Wireless Facilities, and Wireless Support
Structures within City-owned rights-of-way, to conform to the South Salt Lake City Code with
recent mandates in State Law and to adjust the Consolidated Fee Schedule to address new fees
relating to Wireless Facilities, with the grammatical corrections mentioned during the
Planning Commission Meeting.

Motion:                                      Commissioner Pechmann

Second:                                      Commissioner Carter

Vote:                                        Commissioner Carter – Aye;
                                             Commissioner Dahlberg – Aye;
                                             Commissioner Ewell – Aye;
                                             Commissioner Gabbitas – Aye;
                                             Commissioner Pechmann – Aye;
                                             Commissioner Southey – Aye;
                                             Chair Laura Vernon – Aye.

                                             The vote was unanimous.

CONTINUING BUSINESS

There was no Continuing Business.
South Salt Lake City Planning Commission Meeting                                          6
April 7, 2022


PLANNING COMMISSION BUSINESS

   •    Approval of the February 3, 2022, Planning Commission Meeting Minutes

Action Item

Motion to Approve the February 3, 2022, Planning Commission Meeting Minutes:

Motion:                                     Commissioner Carter

Second:                                     Commissioner Dahlberg

Vote:                                       Commissioner Carter – Aye;
                                            Commissioner Dahlberg – Aye;
                                            Commissioner Ewell – Aye;
                                            Commissioner Gabbitas – Aye;
                                            Commissioner Pechmann – Aye;
                                            Commissioner Southey – Aye;
                                            Chair Laura Vernon – Aye.

                                            The vote was unanimous.

   •    Approval of the March 17, 2022, Planning Commission Meeting Minutes

Motion to Approve the March 17, 2022, Planning Commission Meeting Minutes:

Motion:                                     Commissioner Ewell

Second:                                     Commissioner Carter

Vote:                                       Commissioner Carter – Aye;
                                            Commissioner Dahlberg – Aye;
                                            Commissioner Ewell – Aye;
                                            Commissioner Gabbitas – Aye;
                                            Commissioner Pechmann – Aye;
                                            Commissioner Southey – Aye;
                                            Chair Laura Vernon – Aye.

                                            The vote was unanimous.

STAFF BUSINESS – INFORMATION ITEMS

Ms. White reported that the next Planning Commission Meeting was scheduled for April 21, 2022.
MEETING DATE:                    PLANNING COMMISSION – APRIL 7, 2022

REQUEST:                         A RECOMMENDATION TO THE SOUTH SALT LAKE CITY COUNCIL TO ADOPT AN
                                 ORDINANCE ENACTING SECTION 12.61 AND AMENDING SECTION 3.11 OF THE
                                 SOUTH SALT LAKE MUNICIPAL CODE TO ENACT STANDARDS REGARDING THE SITING
                                 OF WIRELESS FACILITIES, AND WIRELESS SUPPORT STRUCTURES WITHIN CITY
                                 OWNED RIGHTS-OF-WAY, TO CONFORM THE SOUTH SALT LAKE CITY CODE WITH
                                 RECENT MANDATES IN STATE LAW AND TO ADJUST THE CONSOLIDATED FEE
                                 SCHEDULE TO ADDRESS NEW FEES RELATING TO WIRELESS FACILITIES.

APPLICANT:                       SOUTH SALT LAKE CITY

MEMO:
The proposed ordinance amendments are part of an effort to adapt the City Municipal Code to technological changes
in how wireless telecommunications companies are deploying new cell towers. The proposed ordinance clarifies how
the City reviews small cell wireless facilities when towers are proposed to be placed within City owned Rights-of-way.
The ordinance also introduces revised fees and new design standards for placing cell towers within a right-of-way.
The proposed ordinance does not change any provisions relating to siting or design of large scale towers that are
already addressed within the Code.

BACKGROUND:
In 2018, the State of Utah passed the Small Wireless Facilities Deployment Act, which limits the authority of the City
to regulate the location of small cell wireless facilities, except for when those facilities are located within the City
Right-of-Way, or the area between property lines where a street is usually located.

South Salt Lake City has developed this ordinance to help us work with wireless carriers to simplify the application
process and make our review process more predictable and useable for those who wish to locate within the Right-of-
Way. It is anticipated that by working with the City to identify where these antennas should be placed, and by placing
new antennas on existing or upgraded light poles, we can ensure that the aesthetic look of the City will be
maintained and that the wireless carriers may achieve the increased coverage that the newer technological advances
require.


 CODE SECTIONS                         HIGHLIGHT OF CHANGES
 Creation of Title 12.61               o New Code Section:
 Declaration of Finding and Intent,           Purpose of this Chapter is to establish requirements for the siting
 Purpose and Goals -- Scope,                    and use of Wireless Facilities in City-owned rights-of-way in a
 Applicability, and Regulations                 manner that facilitates the delivery of Wireless Services within the
                                                City, while minimizing associated adverse impacts.
                                              Establishes specific definitions relating to wireless services.
                                              Clarifies application standards and process for wireless facilities.
                                              Establishes License Agreements as process for placing towers
                                                within the Right-of-Way.
                                              Establishes placement and design standards for antennas to be
                                                placed in a City Right-of-Way.
                                              Allows for modification, maintenance, or other repair of
                                                equipment.
Amending Title 3.11.040     o   New Fee Category:
Consolidated Fee Schedule          Adds Small Wireless Facilities and Associated Fees as a new
                                      category of fees to be collected by the City.
                                     ORDINANCE NO. 2022‐


         AN ORDINANCE OF THE CITY OF SOUTH SALT LAKE CITY COUNCIL ENACTING
         SECTION 12.61 AND AMENDING SECTION 3.11 OF THE SOUTH SALT LAKE
         MUNICIPAL CODE TO ENACT STANDARDS REGARDING THE SITING OF
         WIRELESS FACILITIES, AND WIRELESS SUPPORT STRUCTURES WITHIN CITY
         OWNED RIGHTS-OF-WAY, TO CONFORM THE SOUTH SALT LAKE CITY CODE
         WITH RECENT MANDATES IN STATE LAW AND TO ADJUST THE
         CONSOLIDATED FEE SCHEDULE TO ADDRESS NEW FEES RELATING TO
         WIRELESS FACILITIES.


        WHEREAS, the South Salt Lake City Council (the “City Council”) is authorized by law to enact
ordinances for the health safety and welfare of City of South Salt Lake (the “City”);.
        WHEREAS, the City Council is authorized by law to enact, amend and repeal ordinances
establishing regulations for land use for the City; and
         WHEREAS, City staff has drafted new standards for siting Wireless Communications Facilities
within the City Right of Way creating Section 12.61 and modifying Section 3.11 of the South Salt Lake City
Municipal Code to enhance clarity and transparency in the land use and development process; and
        WHEREAS, the Planning Commission held a legally notified public hearing on April 7, 2022, to
consider amendments to sections of the City’s municipal code; and
         WHEREAS, the Planning Commission found that the proposed Code language was consistent
with State Code and provided clear and predictable standards for regulating wireless facilities within the
City’s Rights of Way and forwarded a recommendation of approval to the City Council; and
          WHEREAS, the City Council finds that the recommended language and amendment, will enhance
the clarity on the land use development process;

NOW THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED, by the City Council of the City of South Salt Lake as follows:
        SECTION I. Enactment. Section 12.61 of the South Salt Lake City Code is hereby enacted and
Section 3.11 is hereby amended as shown in “Exhibit A.”

         SECTION II. Severability. If any section, subsection, sentence, clause, phrase, or portion of this
ordinance is, for any reason, held invalid or unconstitutional by any court of competent jurisdiction, such
provision shall be deemed a separate, distinct, and independent provision, and such holding shall not affect
the validity of the remaining portions of this ordinance.

        SECTION III. Conflict with Existing Ordinances, Resolutions, or Policies. To the extent that
any ordinances, resolutions, or policies of the City of South Salt Lake conflict with the provisions of this
ordinance, this ordinance shall prevail.

         SECTION IV. Effective Date. This ordinance shall become effective upon Mayor’s signature and
publication, or after fifteen days of transmission to the office of the Mayor if neither approved nor
disapproved by the Mayor, and thereafter, publication.



                                  (Signatures appear on separate page)




                                                     1
 DATED this             day of             2022.


                                                   BY THE CITY COUNCIL:


                                                   Sharla Bynum, Council Chair


ATTEST:



Craig D. Burton, City Recorder




 City Council Vote as Recorded:

           Bynum
           Huff
           Mila
           Pinkney
           Siwik
           Thomas
           Williams


Transmitted to the Mayor’s office on this           day of                       2022.



          Craig D. Burton, City Recorder


MAYOR’S ACTION:




           Dated this              day of                             , 2022.




                                                     Cherie Wood, Mayor
ATTEST:



Craig D. Burton, City Recorder


                                                       2
New ordinance proposal

12.61.010 Declaration of Finding and Intent, Purpose and Goals -- Scope, Applicability, and
Regulations

   1. Findings Regarding Rights-of-Way. The City finds that public rights-of-way within the
      City:
          a. are critical to the travel and transport of persons and property in the business and
              social life of the City;
          b. are intended for public uses and must be managed and controlled consistent with
              that intent;
          c. can be partially occupied by the facilities of Wireless Service providers, for the
              enhancement of the health, welfare, and general economic wellbeing of the City
              and its residents; and
          d. are a unique and physically limited resource requiring proper management to
              maximize the efficiency and to minimize the costs to the taxpayers of the foregoing
              uses and to minimize the inconvenience to and negative effects upon the public
              from such facilities' construction, placement, relocation, and maintenance in the
              rights-of-way.
   2. Finding Regarding Compensation. The City finds that the right to occupy portions of the
      public rights-of-way for limited times for the business of providing Wireless Services is a
      valuable use of a unique public resource that has been acquired and is maintained at great
      expense to the City and its taxpayers, and, therefore, the taxpayers of the City should
      receive fair and reasonable compensation for use of the rights-of-way, subject to state law.
   3. Finding Regarding Local Concern. The City finds that while Wireless Facilities are in part
      an extension of interstate commerce, their operations also involve public rights-of-way,
      municipal zoning, and vital business and community service, which are of local concern.
      The City also finds that it has the right to determine what persons and entities are granted
      permission to use City rights-of-way, and to determine the terms and conditions of such
      use.
   4. Finding Regarding Promotion of Wireless Services. The City finds that it is in the best
      interests of its taxpayers and residents to promote the development of Wireless Services,
      on a nondiscriminatory basis, responsive to community and public interest, and to ensure
      availability for municipal, educational, and community services.
   5. Findings Regarding Minimization of Impacts. The City finds that towers and other
      supporting Structures present aesthetic and land use concerns that should be dealt with by
      protecting residential, commercial, and agricultural uses, encouraging collocation
      whenever possible, and minimizing the number of Structures in a manner that does not
      discourage market access or competition.
   6. Findings Regarding License Agreement Standards. The City finds entering a License
      Agreement with Providers:
          a. fairly and reasonably compensates the City on a competitively neutral and
              nondiscriminatory basis as provided herein subject to Utah state law;
          b. encourages competition by establishing terms and conditions under which
              providers may use valuable public property to serve the public;
        c. fully protects the public interests and the City from any harm that may flow from
            such commercial use of its public rights-of-way;
        d. protects the police powers and proprietary authority of the City with respect to its
            rights-of-way, in a manner consistent with federal and state law;
        e. otherwise protects the public interests in the development and use of the City
            infrastructure; and
        f. protects the public's investment in improvements in the public rights-of-way.
7. The purpose of this Chapter is to establish requirements for the siting and use of Wireless
    Facilities in City-owned rights-of-way in a manner that facilitates the delivery of Wireless
    Services within the City, while minimizing associated adverse impacts. The goals of this
    Chapter are to:
        a. provide for the managed development and installation, maintenance, modification,
            and removal of Wireless Services infrastructure in the City with the fewest number
            of Wireless Facilities and Structures to provide adequate wireless communications
            coverage, without unreasonably discriminating against Providers of functionally
            equivalent services including those who install, maintain, and operate Wireless
            Facilities;
        b. promote and protect the public health, safety, and welfare, and specifically,
            protecting aesthetic values, by reducing the visibility of Wireless Facilities and
            Structures to the fullest extent possible through techniques including, but not
            limited to, camouflage or concealment, and design techniques, and undergrounding
            of Wireless Facilities and the equipment associated therewith where reasonably
            possible;
        c. encourage the deployment of smaller, less intrusive Wireless Facilities to
            supplement existing telecommunications facilities where possible;
        d. encourage the location of Structures in non-residential areas, in a manner that
            minimizes the total number of Structures needed throughout the community;
        e. encourage owners and users of antennas and Structures to locate them, to the extent
            possible, in areas where the adverse impact on the community is minimized;
        f. enhance the ability of Providers to provide such Wireless Services to the
            community quickly, effectively, and efficiently; and
        g. effectively manage Wireless Facilities in the public right-of-way.
8. This Chapter provides the basic local scheme for providers of Wireless Services and
    systems that require the use of City-owned rights-of-way, including providers of both the
    system and service, and those providers of the system only.
9. The requirements set forth in this Chapter apply to all Wireless Facilities and Structures
    located within City-owned right-of-way, and to all applications to locate or modify
    Wireless Facilities and Structures within City-owned right-of-way.
10. This Chapter shall apply to all future Providers and to all Providers in the City prior to the
    effective date hereof, whether operating with or without a site license agreement.
11. This chapter does not apply to video systems, wireline services, or macro wireless facilities.
12. In addition to the requirement set forth in this chapter, the City may adopt rules and
    regulations that the City deems necessary to accomplish the purpose of this chapter. The
    City shall make any applicable rules and regulations publicly available.
12.61.020 Definitions
For purposes of this chapter, all terms, phases, words, and their derivatives shall have the meaning
set forth in this section and as defined in Utah Code Ann. §54-21-101 et seq. as amended, or its
successor provisions. The words “shall” and “will” are mandatory and “may” is permissive.
Words not defined shall be given their common and ordinary meaning.
   1. City-owned Pole means a light pole, utility pole, or similar Structure that is owned by the
       City.
   2. Collocate means to install, mount, maintain, modify, operate, or replace a Wireless Facility
       on a Wireless Support Structure or Utility Pole, or, for ground-mounted equipment,
       adjacent to a Wireless Support Structure or Utility Pole or City-owned Pole.
   3. Decorative Pole means a City-owned Utility Pole that is specially designed for an aesthetic
       purpose.
   4. Discretionary Right-of-way or Discretionary ROW means any ROW that is adjacent to
       single-family residential lots, other multifamily residents, or undeveloped land that is
       designated for residential use by zoning or deed restrictions, and is adjacent to a street or
       thoroughfare that is 60 feet wide or less.
   5. Discretionary Use means:
        (i)     the Collocation of a Large Wireless Facility in any ROW;
        (ii)    the installation of a Wireless Support Structure in any ROW;
        (iii) the installation of a new Utility Pole in a Discretionary ROW, or
        (iv)    any use that is not a Permitted Use.
   6. Large Wireless Facility means any Wireless Facility that does not qualify as a Small
       Wireless Facility or a Micro Wireless Facility.
   7. License Agreement means an agreement between a Provider and the City that sets forth
       the general terms and conditions pursuant to which the Provider may install and operate
       Wireless Facilities in City-owned ROW.
   8. Micro Wireless Facility means a type of Small Wireless Facility that only provides Wi-
       Fi service, that does not have an exterior antenna longer than 11 inches, and that is no larger
       in dimension than 24 inches in length, 15 inches in width, and 12 inches in height, not
       including the exterior antenna.
   9. Permitted Right-of-way or Permitted ROW means any ROW that is not a Discretionary
       ROW.
   10. Permitted Use means:
        (i)     the Collocation of a Small Wireless Facility in any ROW, or
        (ii)    the installation of a new Utility Pole in Permitted ROW.
   11. Provider means a person that provides Wireless Services to customers or a person that
       builds or installs Wireless Facilities.
   12. Right-of-Way (“ROW”) means the surface of and the space above and below any public
       street, road, sidewalk, alley, or other way of any type whatsoever dedicated to public
       pedestrian or vehicular use, now or hereafter existing as such within the City. ROW does
       not include federal interstate highways or fixed guideways for public transit.
   13. Site License means a license, approved pursuant to this Chapter, that authorizes a Provider
       to install and operate Wireless Facilities in a ROW, subject to the terms of this Chapter and
       a License Agreement.
   14. Small Wireless Facility means a type of Wireless Facility:
          a.    on which each wireless Provider’s antenna could fit within an enclosure of no more
               than six cubic feet in volume; and
           b. for which all wireless equipment associated with the Wireless Facility, whether
               ground-mounted or pole-mounted, is cumulatively no more than 28 cubic feet in
               volume, not including any:
                     i. electric meter,
                    ii. concealment element,
                   iii. telecommunications demarcation box,
                   iv. grounding equipment,
                    v. power transfer switch,
                   vi. cut-off switch,
                  vii. vertical cable run for the connection of power or other service,
                 viii. wireless Provider antenna, or cable that is immediately adjacent to or
                        directly associated with a particular Collocation, unless the cable is a
                        wireline backhaul facility in which case the cable should be included in
                        calculating the total volume of the associated equipment.
   15. (a) Utility Pole means a pole or similar structure that is in a right-of-way and is or may be
       used for: wireline communications, electric distribution, lighting, traffic control, signage,
       or the Collocation of a Small Wireless Facility.
       (b) Utility Pole does not include a Wireless Support Structure, a structure that supports
           electric transmission lines, or City-owned poles.
   16. (a) Wireless Facility means equipment at a fixed location that enables wireless
       communication between user equipment and a communications network, including a radio
       transceiver, an antenna, a coaxial or fiber-optic cable, a regular or backup power supply,
       or comparable equipment.
       (b) Wireless Facility does not include the structure or an improvement on, under, or within
       which the equipment is Collocated, or a coaxial or fiber-optic cable that is (i) between
       Wireless Support Structures or Utility Poles, (ii) not immediately adjacent to or directly
       associated with a particular antenna, or a (iii) wireline backhaul facility.
   17. Wireless Service means any service using licensed or unlicensed spectrum, whether at a
       fixed location or mobile, provided to the public using a Wireless Facility. Wireless Service
       includes the use of Wi-Fi.
   18. (a) Wireless Support Structure means an existing or proposed structure that is:
               (i)      in a Right-of-Way; and
               (ii)     designed to support or capable of supporting a Wireless Facility, including
                        a monopole, tower, billboard, or building.
       (b) Wireless Support Structure does not include a structure designed solely for the
           Collocation of a Small Wireless Facility, Utility Poles, or electric power poles owned
           by the City or by an interlocal entity.

12.61.030 License Applications and Other Requirements for Use of the Right-of-Way

   1. Before a Provider may construct or install a Wireless Facility or Structure in the ROW, the
      Provider shall obtain a Site License from the City as described in this Chapter, except to
      the extent this requirement is preempted by federal or state law.
2. The City shall create an application for a Site License, which shall include a copy of the
    City’s standard License Agreement.
3. The application must, at a minimum, include the following information:
        (A) The type of Site License sought, e.g., Collocation of Small Wireless Facility,
            Collocation of Large Wireless Facility, installation of new Utility Pole, or
            installation of new Wireless Support Structure. If the Site License is for a
            Collocation, the application must designate the type of Utility Pole or Wireless
            Support Structure on which the Wireless Facility will be mounted, e.g., existing
            Utility Pole or Wireless Support Structure, an existing City-owned Pole, etc.
        (B) The location of the proposed Wireless Facility, Utility Pole, or Wireless Support
            Structure, including the designation of the proposed ROW as Permitted or
            Discretionary.
        (C) A scaled site plan, rendering or photo simulation, scaled elevation view and other
            supporting drawings and calculations, showing the location and dimension of all
            improvements. The submittal must include sufficient information to determine
            compliance with the standards and requirements of this Chapter, specifically
            including information concerning Utility Pole or Wireless Support Structure height
            and location within the ROW, compliance with the City’s intersection and driveway
            sight distance standards, and compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act.
        (D) If applicable, an industry-standard pole load analysis indicating that the Utility Pole
            or Wireless Support Structure on which the Wireless Facility will be mounted will
            safely support the load.
4. A Provider shall indicate on the application whether the Provider believes the application
    to be for Discretionary Use or Permitted Use.
5. If a Provider desires to be exempt from the Site License Fee, the Provider must submit
    evidence that the Provider is subject to the Municipal Telecommunications License Tax
    pursuant to Utah Code Ann. § 10-1-401 et seq.
6. An applicant for a Site License shall submit to the Community Development Department
    a complete application and, if the applicant does not already have a previously executed
    License Agreement with the City, a signed License Agreement.
7. The City may require an applicant to submit additional information for any application for
    a Site License for a Discretionary Use before considering the Application complete.
8. The City shall process applications as described in Section 12.61.060. and 12.61.060
9. The City will not issue any Site Licenses to a Provider until the Provider and the City have
    executed a License Agreement, as described in Section 12.61.050.
10. The grant of a Site License to a Provider does not excuse the Provider from obtaining:
                                (i)     any other permit or authorization required for the
                                        privilege of transacting and carrying on a business within
                                        the City required by the ordinances and laws of the City;
                                (ii)    any other permit, agreement or authorization required in
                                        connection with the use of property or facilities owned
                                        by third parties; or
                                (iii) any other permit or authorization required in connection
                                        with excavating or performing other work in or along the
                                        ROW.
   11. Before offering or providing any services pursuant to the License Agreement, a Provider
       shall obtain any and all regulatory approvals, permits, authorizations or licenses for the
       offering or provision of such services from the appropriate federal, state and local
       authorities, if required, and shall submit to the City upon the written request of the City
       evidence of all such approvals, permits, authorizations or licenses.
   12. Consolidated Applications.
               a. A Provider may submit to the City Community Development Department a
                   consolidated application for Site Licenses to collocate up to 25 Wireless
                   Facilities, so long as the Wireless Facilities are of substantially the same type
                   and proposed for Collocation on substantially the same types of structures.
               b. A Provider may submit a consolidated application for site license to cover the
                   installation, modification, or replacement of up to 25 Utility Poles or Wireless
                   Support Structures.
               c. In any 30-day period, a Provider may not file more than (i) one consolidated
                   application, or (ii) multiple applications that collectively seek Site Licenses for
                   a combined total of more than 25 Wireless Facilities and Structures.

12.61.040 Nature of License

   1. A Site License granted under this Chapter does not convey legal title or equitable title in
      the ROW.
   2. A Site License is only the right to occupy the ROW on a nonexclusive basis for the limited
      purposes and for the limited period stated in the license.
   3. The right described in Paragraph 2 may not be subdivided, assigned, or subleased except
      as may be expressly provided in a License Agreement.
   4. A Provider’s use of the ROW pursuant to a Site License shall be subject to the prior and
      continuing right of the City to use any and all parts of the ROW exclusively or concurrently
      with any other person or entity, and shall be further subject to all deeds, easements,
      dedications, conditions, covenants, restrictions, encumbrances, and claims of title of record
      which may affect the ROW.

12.61.050 License Agreements

   1. The City is authorized to issue nonexclusive licenses governing the installation,
      construction, operation, use, and maintenance of Wireless Facilities, Utility Poles, or
      Wireless Support Structures in the ROW, in accordance with the provisions of this Chapter.
      Any such licenses will be granted through an executed License Agreement entered into
      between the City and Provider, and subsequent Site Licenses that apply and extend the
      terms of the License Agreement to specific locations in the ROW.
   2. License Agreements shall include exhibits detailing the locations and technical
      specifications of Wireless Facilities, Utility Poles, and Wireless Support Structures.
   3. Non-Discrimination: The City shall enter into License Agreements with Providers on a
      non-discriminatory basis. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the City may negotiate additional
      or different terms with different Providers, in the exercise of the City’s reasonable
      discretion and pursuant to the City’s reserved police powers and the City’s rights in the
      ROW.
   4. Term: License Agreements will be for a term of ten (10) years. Individual Site Licenses
      will be for a term of ten (10) years and will be subject to all the terms and conditions of the
      License Agreement, as such License Agreement may be renewed and amended from time
      to time.
   5. Compensation: The License Agreement will require the Provider to pay fair and reasonable
      compensation to the City for (i) the administrative expenses associated with entry into the
      License Agreement and individual Site Licenses, (ii) the Provider’s use of ROW, including
      the City’s expenses associated with maintenance and management of the Provider’s use of
      ROW, and (iii) other applicable fees.
           a. Application Fee: In order to offset the cost to the City to review applications,
              Providers shall pay a non-refundable Application Fee, as applicable to the type of
              application, in an amount established in the Consolidated Fee Schedule. The
              Application Fee must be paid at the time the application is submitted to the City.
           b. Site License Fee: In order to offset the cost to the City of inspecting and managing
              licensed Wireless Facilities, and to compensate the City for the use of the ROW,
              the License Agreement will require Providers to pay an annual fee for each Site
              License, as established in the Consolidated Fee Schedule.
           c. Other Fees: Providers must also pay all other applicable fees established in the City
              Code, specifically including but not limited to fees for building permits, right-of-
              way permits, and business licensing.
   6. Insurance, Indemnity, and Security: Prior to the execution of a License Agreement, a
      Provider shall:
           a. deposit with the City an irrevocable, unconditional letter of credit, cash security, or
              bond as required by the terms of the License Agreement;
           b. obtain and provide proof of the insurance coverage required by the License
              Agreement; and
           c. indemnify the City as set forth in the License Agreement.
   7. A Provider desiring to remove, replace, or otherwise modify an existing Wireless Facility
      in the public way shall first enter into an amendment to the Provider’s License Agreement
      with the City such that exhibits reflect the removal, replacement, or modification of the
      Wireless Facility.

12.61.060. Processing Applications.

1 (a) Within 30 days of the day on which when an application is submitted to the City, the City
shall determine whether the application is complete, and shall notify the Provider of that
determination in writing.

(b) If the City determines that an application is incomplete, the City shall specifically identify the
missing information in the written notification to the Applicant and the rule or regulation creating
the obligation to submit the information.

(c) The processing deadline will be tolled from the date when the City sends the written notification
until the date when the Provider submits the missing information.
(d) If the Provider does not submit the missing information within 90 days after the date of the
written notification, the application will expire.

2.     The City shall approve or deny applications in accordance with the following deadlines:

(a) Applications for the Collocation of Small Wireless Facilities shall be approved or denied within
60 days after the day when the City receives a complete application.

(b) The City may extend the deadline described in Paragraph (2)(a) by a single additional period
of 10 days by sending the applicant written notice of the extension before the applicable deadline.

(c) Applications for new, modified, or replacement Utility Poles shall be approved or denied within
105 days after the day when the City receives a complete application. The City may extend this
deadline by a single additional period of 10 days by sending the applicant written notice of the
extension before the applicable deadline.

3. (a) If the City denies an application, the City shall provide the applicant with a written decision
that documents the basis for the denial, and shall send that decision to the applicant on the next
business day that the City denies the application.

(b) If the City denies an application for one or more Utility Poles, or one or more Small Wireless
Facilities in a consolidated application, the City shall not use that denial as a basis to delay the
application process for any other Utility Pole or Small Wireless Facility in the same consolidated
application.

4. (a) Within 30 days after the day on which the City denies an application, the applicant may cure
the deficiencies noted in the denial and resubmit the application without paying an application fee.

(b) The City shall approve or deny the resubmitted application within 30 days of receipt and shall
limit its review to the deficiencies noted in the original denial unless the applicant has changed
another portion of the application.

12.61.070 License Application Approval or Denial
1. The Community Development Director, in consultation with the City Engineer, has authority to
approve an application for a Site License according to the timelines established in Section
12.61.060.
2(a) The Community Development Director may deny an application for a Permitted Use that does
not comply with the requirements of this Chapter, specifically including but not limited to
Standards Applicable to Wireless Facilities in Rights-of-way and any design standards that were
promulgated pursuant to this chapter and publicly available on the day the application was
submitted.
(b) A denial under this Paragraph (2) shall be made in writing and shall enumerate the ways in
which the application failed to comply with this Chapter.
3. As established by state law, the Community Development Director may deny an application if
the application seeks to place a new Utility Pole in a ROW if the ROW is adjacent to a street or
thoroughfare that is:
       (a) not more than 60 feet wide; and
         (b) adjacent to single-family residential lots, multifamily residences, or undeveloped land
that is designated for residential use by zoning or deed restrictions.
4. If the Community Development Director denies an application for a Site License pursuant to
Paragraph (3), the Community Development Director shall do so on a nondiscriminatory basis and
provide a written denial of the application, including the rationale for the denial.

5. Upon approval of an application, the City shall issue a Site License to the Provider and inform
the Provider if any other City permits are required before the Provider may proceed with
construction and installation.

6. (a) An approved Site License will expire 270 days after approval if the licensed Small Wireless
Facility or Utility Pole is not installed and operational.

(b) The deadline described in Paragraph (6)(a) will be tolled for any period of time during which
the lack of commercial power or communications facilities delays completion, if the Applicant
keeps the City reasonably apprised of the reasons for delay.


12.61.080 Standards Applicable to Wireless Facilities in Rights-of-Way
The following standards, requirements, and prohibitions apply to all Wireless Facilities licensed
pursuant to this Chapter.

   1. Height. The maximum height of new or modified Utility Pole or Wireless Support
      Structure, including the antenna and any part of the mounted Small Wireless Facility , is
      50 feet above ground level at the point of installation. The antenna of a Wireless Facility
      may not extend more than 10 feet above the top of an existing Utility Pole or Wireless
      Support Structure. All equipment mounted on new or existing Utility Poles or Wireless
      Support Structures must be mounted at least 8 feet above ground level.
   2. Placement. Wireless Facilities and new Utility Pole sor Wireless Support Structures must
      be placed in locations that will not:
          (i)     obstruct or hinder the usual travel or public safety on the ROW;
          (ii)    create a public health or safety hazard;
          (iii) obstruct, damage, or interfere with another utility facility in the ROW, or the
                  use of such other utility facilities;
          (iv)    materially interfere with the safe operation of traffic control equipment;
          (v)     materially interfere with a sight line or a clear zone for transportation or
                  pedestrians;
          (vi)    materially interfere with compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act;
                  or
          (vii) violate applicable laws or legal obligations.
3. Design Requirements. (a) The design of Wireless Facilities and new Utility Poles or
   Wireless Support Structures must comply with all design standards adopted by the City,
   and be architecturally integrated with existing buildings, structures and landscaping,
   including considerations of height, color, style, massing, placement, design and shape, such
   that they do not stand out when viewed with the naked eye.
               (b) For all applications:
                       1. exposed cabling will not be permitted;
                       2. horizontal protrusions from the Utility Pole or Wireless Support
                           Structure may not exceed 2 feet;
                       3. new Utility Pole or Wireless Support Structure must be of monopole
                           design;
                       4. lattice Utility Poles or Wireless Support Structures will not be
                           permitted; and
                       5. wooden Utility Poles or Wireless Support Structures will not be
                           permitted.
               (c) The City may promulgate more additional design standards for Wireless
                   Facilities and Utility Poles or Wireless Support Structures that comply with
                   this chapter and shall make them publicly available.
4. Additional Design Requirements in Historic Zone. In order to maintain the historic
   character of the Zone, all Wireless Facilities and new Utility Poles or Wireless Support
   Structures in the Zone must employ screening, concealment, camouflage, or other
   techniques to minimize visual impacts.
5. Electrical Service. (a) Except as provided in Subsection (5)(b), Providers will be solely
   responsible for establishing electrical power services for their Wireless Facilities and for
   the payment of all electrical utility charges to the applicable electric service provider based
   upon applicable tariffs.

   (b) If a Provider collocates on a City-owned pole, the Provider shall ensure it has a separate
   service and meter for electrical service. Otherwise, the City shall establish an equitable
   method of determining the Provider’s share of payment for applicable electrical utility
   charges, including but not limited to installing a separate power meter.

6. Undergrounding of Lines. All communication and electrical power lines serving Wireless
   Facilities must be located underground, unless the Wireless Facility is Collocated on an
   existing Utility Pole or Wireless Support Structure that already features above-ground
   lines, and the owner of the existing Utility Pole or Wireless Support Structure agrees to
   provide communication or power service to the Wireless Facility through those existing
   lines. The City may require that the new electrical power line be overlashed on the existing
   electrical power line.
7. Compliance with Law. All Wireless Facilities must comply with all applicable federal,
   state, and local building codes and safety codes and regulations.
8. Additional Requirements: Wireless Facilities will be subject to any additional requirements
   set forth in the applicable License Agreement and Site License.
9. Decorative Poles. New or replacement Utility Poles must be designed to reasonably
   conform to the design aesthetic of Decorative Poles in the vicinity, if any.
12.61.090 Modifications of Wireless Facilities

   1. A Provider may not alter, modify, or enlarge a licensed Small Wireless Facility or Utility
      Pole without prior written consent from the City. To obtain such consent, the Provider must
      submit an application in accordance with Section 12.61.050.
   2. Applications for modifications to Wireless Facilities and Utility Poles or Wireless Support
      Structures will be subject to the same standards, requirements, and processing deadlines as
      applications for Collocations.
   3. Notwithstanding the foregoing, a Provider is not required to submit an application or obtain
      consent from the City for the following activities:

               (a) routine maintenance on a Small Wireless Facility or Utility Pole,

               (b) replacement of a Small Wireless Facility with a Small Wireless Facility that is
               substantially similar or smaller in size, and

               (c) the installation, placement, maintenance, operation, or replacement of a Micro
               Wireless Facility that is strung on a cable between existing Utility Poles in
               compliance with the National Electrical Safety Code.

   4. A Provider shall provide the City with 30-day advance notice of any such activity described
      in Paragraph 3.
   5. A Provider must apply for a building permit or ROW permit in accordance with City Code
      for any work that requires excavation or the closure of sidewalks or vehicular lanes. The
      requirement to obtain a permit applies even for work that is exempted from the application
      process pursuant to Subsection C, above.
   6. Any approved modifications will be documented in a new or amended Site License.


12.61.100 Lighting
(1) Except as provided in Subsection (2), only lighting as is necessary to satisfy FAA requirements
is permitted on a Utility Pole or Wireless Support Structure. White strobe lighting will not be
allowed, unless specifically required by the FAA. Security lighting for the equipment shelters or
cabinets and other on the ground ancillary equipment is permitted, as long as it is appropriately
down shielded to keep light within the boundaries of the site and utilizes a below-grade junction
box.
(2) Nothing in this section prohibits the collocation of a wireless facility on an existing light pole.

12.61.110 Maintenance

   1. Provider shall maintain:
         a. all parts of its wireless communication system in a non-dangerous condition, as
             determined by the City; and
            b. its system in accordance with standard prudent engineering practices and shall
               conform with all applicable codes and all applicable standards.
     2. The City is not responsible for any impact that one wireless communication system has on
        another wireless communication system, regardless of whether the City has approved one
        wireless communication system for collocating with another wireless communication
        system.


12.61.120 Enforcement and Remedies

     1. The City is responsible for enforcing and administering this chapter, and the Mayor or the
        Mayor’s designee, is authorized to give any notice required by law or under any wireless
        site license agreement.
     2. In the event that an individual or entity violates this chapter, the City will notify the
        violating party of the violation and provide 30 days for the party to cure the violation.
     3. If the violation is not cured within 30 days, the City may:
             1. fine the violating party $500 per day until the violation is cured; and
             2. terminate or suspend any franchises, permits, or licenses held by the violating party.
     4. If the violation is not cured within 180 days of the City’s notice, the City may remove and
        impound the grantee’s equipment until the violation has been cured.
     5. The violating entity may appeal the City’s notice of violation within 10 days of the date of
        the notice of violation in accordance with section 12.61.130.

12.61.130 Appeal of Decisions

     1. A party may appeal a denial of an application to the administrative law judge. A complete
        notice of appeal shall be filed within ten (10) business days of the decision which is
        appealed, including the following information:

            (A) the name, address and telephone number of the applicant and the applicant's
                agent, if any;
            (B) the decision appealed;
            (C) grounds for the appeal; and
            (D) a description of the action claimed by the applicant to be incorrect.
     2. The hearing will be conducted pursuant to and subject to the processes and standards set
        forth in Chapter 2.22.



3.11.040 Building, Planning, and Zoning.
A.    Building Permits and Fees. Total Building Permit Fees (Building Fee + Plan Check Fee + State Surcharge Fee)
      are calculated based upon the most current International Code Council Building Valuation Data (ICCBVD),
      updated semi-annually. The Building Permit Fee is the sum of the applicable Building Fee (Β), Plan Check Fee
      (Ρ) and State Surcharge Fee (Υ). The Building Fee (Β), is calculated by multiplying the Gross ICCBVD Valuation
      (GIV) by the local multiplier (µ). The Plan Check Fee (Ρ) is calculated by multiplying the Building Fee (Β) by
      .65. The State Surcharge Fee (Υ) is calculated by multiplying the Building Fee (Β) by .01.
              Building Permit Fee = Β + Ρ + Υ
              Β = µ x GIV
              Ρ = Β x .65
              Υ = Β x .01
              GIV = Σ [(gross square footage of each ICCBVD building valuation type)(ICCBVD value for that building
              valuation type) + (gross square footage of that ICCBVD building valuation type)(ICCBVD value of that
              building valuation type) + ... (same calculation for gross square footage of each separate building
              valuation type)]
        Building Fees and Plan Check Fees entitle the applicant to an initial review and two subsequent reviews
        without additional charge. Plan Check Fees are due at time of building permit application. Building Fees and
        State Surcharge Fee are due prior to issuance of permit. All fees are non-refundable.
        Certain routine or simple projects are eligible for an over-counter flat fee, in lieu of a calculated fee, as
        detailed in the chart below.
Other fees:
     Consultant fees (expedited, complicated, or unusual structures or projects)                   City's actual cost
     Additional hourly fees (beyond three reviews)                                                 $56.00/hour
     Inspection re-fee                                                                             $56.00
     Commencing construction prior to issuance of permit                                           additional 100% of
                                                                                                   Building Fee

Over the Counter Flat Fees:
     Demolition permit (per building)
       Commercial demolition                                                              $60.00
       Two-family or more                                                                 $60.00
       Single family/accessory building                                                   $30.00
       Interior demo (plans and inspection required)                                      $20.00
     Sign permits (not including electrical work, if needed)
       Building mounted                                                                   $100.00
       Freestanding (ground, pole, monument, etc.)                                        $200.00
       Billboard (off-premises sign)                                                      $500.00
     Other fees
     3rd and subsequent business license inspection                                       $50.00/appointment
     Certificate of Occupancy inspection                                                  $300.00/occurrence

B.      Impact Fees. Impact fees are applicable if construction attributable to new growth is taking place within the
        specific fee's service area.
     Culinary water impact fee
       ¾" meter                                              $733.00
       1" meter                                              $1,557.00
       1.5" meter                                            $5,690.00
       2" meter                                              $7,611.00
       3" meter                                              $16,664.00
       4" meter                                              $28,558.00
       6" meter                                              $46,676.00
       Other meter connection                                $733.00/ERC, determined by director
                 Sanitary sewer impact fee (meter size)                 City multiplier           Impact fee
                               ¾" meter                                       1.00                 $1,063.00
                               1" meter                                      2.12                  $2,259.00
                              1.5" meter                                      7.76                 $8,252.00
                               2" meter                                      10.38                $11,038.00
                               3" meter                                      22.73                $24,167.00
                               4" meter                                      38.96                $41,417.00
                               6" meter                                      63.68                $67,694.00

     Parks impact fee                                       Fee per household
       Single-family                                        $1,677.00
       Multi-Family                                         $1,608.00

C.      Fire Marshal Inspections.
     Automatic sprinkler systems
        Up to 8,000 square feet                             $150.00
        Over 8,000 square feet                              $300.00
        Third and any subsequent submittal                  40% of prior fee
     Clean agent systems/hood systems/paint booths          $200.00
     Fire alarm systems
        Up to 5,000 square feet                             $120.00
        Over 5,000 square feet                              $300.00
     Tent and membrane structures
        Up to 700 square feet                               $120.00
        Over 700 square feet                                $120.00 + ($0.02/additional square feet)
     State licensed healthcare
        Day care facility (6 or less children)              $29.00
        Day care facility (7 or more children)              $58.00
        Group homes, offices                                $58.00
        Counseling services/group therapy                   $58.00
        Nursing home facility                               $116.00
        Greater than 10,000 square feet                     Additional $300.00
     Fuel tanks
        1—2 tanks installed/removed                         $250.00/site
        Additional tanks (3+)                               $200.00/tank
        Re-inspection fee                                   $100.00


D.      Planning and Zoning Fees.
     Allowed Use Applications                                                        $150.00
     Conditional Use Applications                                                    $600.00 + $10.00/unit
     Subdivision and Platting
       Predevelopment review                                                         $50.00
       Plat                                                                          $1000.00 + $20.00/lot
       Recording fees                                                                At City's cost
       Vacating, altering, or amending a subdivision plat                            $1000.00
     Development Review                                                              $500.00
    Concept review                                                              $50.00
    Design review—Planning Commission                                           $500.00
    Historic and Landmark Commission review                                     $400.00
    Design review—Design review committee                                       $400.00
  Other
    Zoning/Ordinance change request                                             $1000.00
    Variance                                                                    $300.00
    Non-conforming use determinations                                           $500.00
    General plan amendment                                                      $1000.00
    Consultant fees (expedited, complicated, or unusual projects)               City's actual cost
  Documents
    Zoning map                                                                  $10.00
    General plan                                                                $20.00

E. Small Wireless Facilities and Associated Fees.
  Application Fee for Collocating a Small Wireless Facility on an Existing or   $100.00 per wireless facility
  Replacement Utility Pole or Wireless Support Structure
  Application Fee for Installing a New Utility Pole                             $250.00 per pole
  Application Fee for Discretionary Use Utility Pole                            $1000.00
  Site License Fee                                                              The greater of 3.5% of all
                                                                                gross revenue related to the
                                                                                Provider’s use of the ROW
                                                                                or $250 per year*
  Site License Fee For Collocation on a City-owned Pole                         $50 per year

* No Site License Fee will be charged to a Provider that is also subject to the Municipal
Telecommunications License Tax, pursuant to Utah Code Ann. 10-1-401 et seq.
Small Cell
Wireless
Facilities
SSLC Planning Commission
April 7, 2022
Wireless Telecommunications

• Technology is changing
• More devices = more need for connectivity
  • Density vs Capacity
• City has limited options to regulate
• Siting of antennas is biggest hurdle
Goals of Ordinance

• Predictability for carriers
• Clearly state City’s goals
• Improve carrier density to improve wireless service for residents
• Streamline application processes
• Work within constraints of existing infrastructure
• Limit visual and other impacts to residents and visitors
• What we are used to:
  Monopole Towers
• What we are used to:
  “Stealth”
• What we are used to:
  Attached Antenna
• Proposed Infrastructure:
  Stand Alone Antenna
    • Separate Structure
    • Usually similar height
      to older antennas
    • Carrier preferred for
      access issues
• Proposed Infrastructure:
  Attached Antenna
    • Uses existing structure
    • Limited height (50’/10’)
    • City preferred