Planning Commission Meeting Minutes
                                Thursday, August 31, 2023
                             South Salt Lake Council Chambers
                                  220 East Morris Avenue
                                      Time: 7:00 p.m.

Commission Members Present:                George Pechmann, Chair
                                           Sophie Bellina
                                           Jeremy Carter
                                           Chad Ewell
                                           Suzanne Slifka




                                             T
                                           Mary Anna Southey
                                           Olivia Spencer

Staff Members Present:                     Amy Jones, City Attorney
                                           Jonathan Weidenhamer, Community Development Director
                                           Dawn Emery, City Planner
          AF
PLANNING COMMISSION MEETING
                                           Jed Shum, City Planner
                                           Alexandra White Halleck, Planning Consultant




Chair Pechmann called the meeting to order at 7:00 p.m.

Pledge of Allegiance:                      Commissioner Bellina

Motion to APPROVE the Agenda:

Motion:                                    Commissioner Carter
R
Second:                                    Commissioner Bellina

Vote:                                      Commissioner Bellina – Aye
                                           Commissioner Carter – Aye;
                                           Commissioner Ewell – Aye;
                                           Commissioner Slifka – Aye;
D

                                           Commissioner Southey – Aye;
                                           Commissioner Spencer – Aye;
                                           Chair Pechmann – Aye.

                                           The vote was unanimous.

STAFF BUSINESS – INFORMATION ITEMS
South Salt Lake City Planning Commission Meeting                                                  2
August 31, 2023


Community Development Director, Jonathan Weidenhamer introduced New City Planner, Dawn
Emery. She was hired by way of the City’s Legal Department and has proven to be a technical asset
to the City.

NEW BUSINESS

1.     Public Hearing – A Petition for a Preliminary Condominium Plat Approval for a Two-
       Lot Condominium, for a Multi-Family Dwelling at 2191 South 300 West.

Action Item




                                                T
Applicant:     Woodbury Corporation
Address:       2191 South 300 West

Planning Consultant, Alexandra White Halleck, presented the Staff Report and stated that the request
is for a Preliminary Plat Subdivision. The project is located at 2191 South 300 West with a corner
          AF
that impacts 2249 South 300 West. Woodbury Corporation, on behalf of SODO 1 Owner, LLC is
the applicant. They are petitioning for a Condominium Subdivision Plat that covers the majority of
property highlighted in yellow. They are proposing a 1,245-unit multi-family building that includes
9,300 square feet of ground-floor commercial largely on the corner of Utopia Avenue and 300 West.
There are approximately 1,000 total parking stalls included in the project. The building is six stories
over two floors of podium parking with six total towers. The height is just under 85 feet. It is located
in the Downtown Zoning District near the Central Point TRAX Station. The current use of the
property includes three warehouses, some of which are vacant. The intent is to take the warehouses
down in phases and redevelop the multi-family building. Multi-family use in the zone is
conditionally allowed in the Downtown District. The overall project has a multi-part entitlement
path, which was why two parts of the application were being presented tonight.

Ms. Halleck reported that a Design Review Committee (“DRC”) Meeting was held in May. The
R
Subdivision Plat process includes the Preliminary and Final Plat hearing process as well as the
Conditional Use, which is the next item on the agenda. The existing condition includes concrete
warehouse buildings located directly behind the Best Buy block. Renderings of the property from
various directions were presented.

Ms. Halleck reported that an American Land Title Association (“ALTA”) Survey was completed.
There are a number of utilities that exist in Utopia and 300 West. The project is participating in the
D

Public Infrastructure District (“PID”) process for the sewer capacity and infrastructure improvement
that was approved last year. Some relocation of utilities will need to take place to support this and
other downtown projects. The ALTA Survey also looked at the right-of-way dimensions for Utopia
Avenue and 300 West. The applicant is proposing a 7.5-foot dedication along Utopia Avenue. 300
West has a 2.9-foot dedication. Both rights-of-way were being widened as part of the process. There
are high transmission power lines that run along the 300 West corridor. They have high transmission
on the upper end and low transmission on the lower end. The applicant will bury the low
transmission lines, however, that is currently not possible with the high transmission lines. Staff
South Salt Lake City Planning Commission Meeting                                                 3
August 31, 2023


worked with the Fire Department and the South Salt Lake Fire Marshall to design around them based
on the setback requirements for that transmission level.

Along the south and east portions of the site is the Utah Transit Authority (“UTA”) rail line. There
were specific setbacks and requirements pertaining to UTA’s infrastructure. A notch on the site is
owned by UTA which has granted a Perpetual Access Easement across the site to allow the site plan
to implement fire lanes, vehicular and pedestrian access, and utilities that will circulate around the
building.

The parcel is very large at just under eight acres in size. The total project layout includes a two-




                                               T
story podium parking structure that covers the entire parcel. There are 1,079 total parking stalls
between both phases with 621 in Phase 1 and 487 in Phase 2. There are 63 electric vehicle stalls
proposed with conduit to expand to 186 more. There are 23 accessible stalls, 84 visitor bicycle
parking stalls, and 312 secured bicycle stalls.

Commissioner Carter asked if the visitor stalls would be used primarily for the commercial ground
          AF
floor. Ms. Halleck believed that was the intent. The applicant specified in the application that the
visitor parking would be accessed off of 300 West. A portion of the garage will be available for
visitors of residents as well as the ground floor commercial tenants. A question was raised regarding
whether what is proposed provides enough parking for the commercial guests. Ms. Halleck
commented that the calculation was based on what is required in the Code, which she recalled as
being three stalls per 1,000 square feet of commercial space and 1.2 stalls with the reduction. What
is proposed is in compliance with the Code with the requested 20% reduction. Commissioner Carter
indicated that this was discussed in length with the applicant along with their philosophy and
approach to handling the retail and storefront.

In response to a question raised, Ms. Halleck referenced the west façade and stated that there is
ground-floor commercial that will wrap the corner. There is no parking garage front facing 300
West with a small amount on the corner that faces TRAX. She commented that most of the parking
R
structure is wrapped and visible from the right-of-way. Commissioner Bellina asked about the
potential traffic impacts, particularly on 2100 South. Ms. Halleck reviewed the report and stated
that there are a number of data points. It was reported that the Level of Service will be C in the
mornings and D in the evenings. 12 lanes were analyzed at 2100 South and 300 West with 400 trips
per lane per peak. Staff was satisfied with that given the number of people expected to come to the
area. As they continue to commit to walkability and bike-ability, crossing 2100 South will be
challenging.
D

Commissioner Slifka asked about the number of parking stalls compared to the number of units. She
stated that there are 1,245 units proposed with 1,079 stalls. She asked if the expectation was that
certain units will not require two parking spaces. Chair Pechmann stated that the proximity to TRAX
allows them to reduce the parking requirement. Mr. Weidenhamer stated that the analysis presented
complies with the Code.

Commissioner Slifka asked about the pedestrian area near the power lines and if bike lanes would
be included. Ms. Halleck recalled that bike lanes were an issue with the City Engineer regarding the
South Salt Lake City Planning Commission Meeting                                                  4
August 31, 2023


improvements being placed within the right-of-way and what will be pulled outside of the travel
lanes but still within the right-of-way. She was not sure where that shift occurred. She did not
believe there were any changes to what currently exists.

Chair Pechmann asked if a bicycle could be ridden along the fire lane to the TRAX station.
Mr. Weidenhamer explained that the fire lane is focused on pedestrians and cyclists and is something
the applicants have put a great deal of effort and resources into. They have made a significant
commitment to enhance walking and biking in the area for the benefit of the district as a whole in
that corridor. 300 West will remain as-is with the intent being to commit to connecting to Parleys
Trail. They see it as a pedestrian and biking mode for east-west travel. They will likely also commit




                                                T
to southbound West Temple as well. They are working to connect pedestrian and cyclist access to
the TRAX station.

The applicant, Dave Abraham from Architectural Nexus, reported that the project was done in
collaboration with the City of South Salt Lake and Ms. Halleck. During the design process, they
noticed the lack of a connection to Parleys Trail. That was a key component discussed with
          AF
Woodbury Corporation. It was noted that the project can fill a missing component. Mr. Abraham
confirmed that it is a transit-heavy site that is multi-modal. Several buildings will be broken up into
several areas with firewalls. The components, other than retail, are still glass-lined with brownstone
units on the ground floor. The screening of the parking structure was minimized to the extent
possible.

Frederik Berte from Architectural Nexus stated that the intent at Central Point Station is to have a
pedestrian and bicycle-oriented area that wraps along the fire lane.

Jake Smith from Woodbury Corporation referenced the glass line on the northeast corner and stated
that there are two main lobbies associated with Phase 1. One touches Utopia Avenue and another
touches 300 West. The intent is to provide a resident experience where someone can sit in the lobby
and have direct sight of the TRAX station. They will also have TRAX schedules displayed in the
R
lobby.

Mr. Berte stated that the intent is to create a nice experience while creating a soft boundary next to
the TRAX station. The proposed amenities were described. Diagrams were created to showcase the
interconnectivity and amenity spaces in Phase 1 and included a fitness center, a clubhouse, a dog
wash, and a rooftop deck. When both phases are built out, the amenity decks will interconnect and
become one. There will be pass-throughs to provide greater interconnectivity. It was noted that the
D

amenities will be for the use of residents only. A view from the southeast corner was displayed.

The southwest lobby will be large with a fireplace, a leasing office, a pool table, and a co-working
amenity for tenants. The intent is to open up the stairs and encourage tenants to have a more active
lifestyle. There will also be interconnectivity to the garage that will be away from 300 West and
brought into the building. A rendering of the clubhouse kitchen was displayed. Other amenities
include pools and a golf simulator.
South Salt Lake City Planning Commission Meeting                                                5
August 31, 2023


The concept of the overall project was described. Mr. Berte reported that because it is such a large
project, they want it to have a downtown feel with smaller buildings that will appear to have been
built at different times. Designers spent a lot of time making the aesthetic work. Chair Pechmann
asked about the timeline. It was noted that the buildings will be built in phases that will be
sequenced. Mr. Smith stated that logistically they have challenges with regard to the proximity to
the TRAX station. They intend to complete the project in a counterclockwise motion starting on the
southwest side where they will have right-in and right-out access. To access the parking structure
one will enter off of Utopia Avenue. The intent was to build the structure first, then the parking
structure, and then go vertical. The contractor expected construction to take approximately 30
months to complete the first phase. A few more years will be needed to complete the second phase




                                               T
and will depend on supply chains. The hope was to begin Phase 2 as soon after Phase 1 is completed
as possible.

Mr. Berte commented on Mural Fest and stated that murals will be integrated into the building as
part of the design. Chair Pechmann asked if they would be working with the South Salt Lake Arts
Council to find artists to create the murals. Mr. Smith stated that they were open to suggestions.
         AF
Mr. Abraham commented that creativity is being explored. They often look at ways to acknowledge
and share with the developer what is being done apart from the technical drawings to get inspiration.
An image was provided to the design team that captures some of the elements of the community.
The desire was to explore aspects of architecture and celebrate transit options.

Commissioner Slifka asked about security. Mr. Smith stated that the main lobby areas will be open
during normal business hours. On-site staff will provide management and oversight throughout the
project. During off hours there will be controlled access with security cameras. Control arms were
proposed when entering the parking structure that will remain open during regular business hours.
Commercial parking will be provided behind the commercial in Phase 2. Beyond those spaces will
be controlled access that becomes resident only.

Mr. Smith reported that while they have taken advantage of the parking reduction, they recognize
R
that a minimum number of parking stalls is required. They do not want residents to park in
neighborhoods. They welcomed the opportunity, however, for those who desire to use mass transit.
He noted that this is the most connected TRAX stop in the valley and provides direct access to
employers. Mr. Smith expounded on parking and recognized that it is critical but everchanging.
Woodbury Corporation, as the developer, believes very strongly in commercial development as it is
an asset for cities, however, it must be thoughtful and not an afterthought. With respect to access
and visibility, hard corners are always the preference. The corner of Utopia Avenue and 300 West
D

will be the main commercial area. Adequate ducting will be provided for food users. They will look
at specific depths as well to allow for uses in back offices. A great deal of thought has gone into
how the project will be functional for various users and benefit future residents.

A second access will be provided off of Utopia Avenue further north. The designated area is
intended to be commercial. He commented that adequate parking must be provided for the
commercial to survive and a balance struck in providing adequate parking for residents. It was noted
that Utopia Avenue is a dead-end street, which makes the frontage difficult to draw people in and
create a presence. The streetscape was enhanced with brownstone units and multiple lobbies.
South Salt Lake City Planning Commission Meeting                                                  6
August 31, 2023


Having dead storefronts creates a space that is not active or inviting. Locating residential and retail
on the ground floor will complement the overall project. Mr. Smith commented that the brownstone
units will be an eloquent approach, especially due to the proximity to the TRAX station.

Chair Pechmann asked if the lobby near the train station would be open to the public. Mr. Abraham
responded that it will be open to the public during normal business hours. In response to a question
regarding sound, Mr. Smith stated that a Sound Engineer was employed to reduce the noise impact
on residents. Softscape was provided along the border on both sides of the trail element. The active
uses along the corner were also held back. The approach was to have the first 24 feet be non-
occupied where the train generates the most noise. A significant amount of study went into how to




                                                T
best mitigate the sound. They believe that people who live in the area will also understand that they
live next to a train.

Commissioner Southey asked how the resident parking would work. Mr. Smith explained that it
would be paid parking. Tenants will have the option of paying for assigned or unassigned stalls.
Most residents will park close to an elevator or access point closest to their unit. It was noted that
          AF
unbundled parking was part of the parking strategy. Commissioner Bellina commented that there is
another project in the City where residents were required to pay for parking but it ultimately spilled
over into the street. She asked how a similar situation could be addressed. Mr. Smith stated that
they have not yet prepared a Mitigation Plan but often if someone has a vehicle, paying for a parking
stall is required. It was acknowledged that the parking situation may deter people from renting there.
Those who own cars may be required to pay for a stall. They have found that the site is unique as
there is not an abundance of on-street parking but they do not want parking to become a burden for
residents. Mr. Smith stated that they do not make a profit from parking, but it is necessary.
Mr. Weiderhamer commented that at a cost of $45,000 to $50,000 per stall, parking will never pay
for itself. If it becomes a problem, the City will get involved. He explained that there is a balance
to ensure that there is an adequate amount of parking but not an overabundance.

In response to a question raised by Commissioner Slifka, Mr. Abraham stated that the units will be
R
rentals. Commissioner Slifka commented that she is always concerned about parking. Mr. Smith
stated that they have explored the possibility of having cars on site for residents to rent. The
management company they are working with has experience with that.

Commissioner Spencer asked about the water resources that are available for the project.
Ms. Halleck explained that as part of any subdivision plat or development application, the applicant
is required to go through the Will-Serve Letter Process and obtain approval from the utility entities
D

that will serve the facility. The subject property will be served by South Salt Lake Water and Sewer.
The City Engineer verified the water availability, capacity, and flow rates for the facility for both
phases at full build-out and found that there is adequate supply under current conditions to support
the proposed facility. The Will-Serve Letter was obtained and on file with the City.

Chair Pechmann opened the public hearing. There were no public comments. The public hearing
was closed.
South Salt Lake City Planning Commission Meeting                                           7
August 31, 2023


Commissioner Carter commented on parking and stated that the main issue will likely be overflow
into the Best Buy parking lot, which was thought to be better than cars parking on City streets.
Mr. Weidenhamer reported that staff is working with the Neighborhoods Team and Code
Enforcement to establish a Parking Division in the near future.

Chair Pechmann stated that there are ways to get around without owning a car, however, those
alternatives are often expensive and inconvenient. He felt that market conditions will influence
whether people who can afford to take an Uber will live in this facility.

Motion to APPROVE the application by Woodbury on behalf of SODO 1 Owner, LLC and




                                              T
the Utah Transit Authority for a Preliminary Subdivision Plat for a Condominium Subdivision
of the subject properties located at 2191 South 300 West and 2249 South 300 West subject to
the following:

Findings of Fact:

       1.




       2.
            AFOn January 18, 2023, Woodbury Corporation submitted a subdivision
              application on behalf of SoDo 1 Owner, LLC, and Utah Transit Authority, to
              legally subdivide two parcels via a subdivision plat to comply with the South Salt
              Lake Municipal Code.

              The subject properties are located at 2191 South 300 West and 2249 South 300
              West in South Salt Lake City. SoDo 1 Owner, LLC will retain ownership of the
              lot located at 2191 South 300 West. This lot will contain a condominium plat.
              Utah Transit Authority will retain ownership of the lot located at 2249 South
              300 West.

       3.     SoDo 1 Owner, LLC is petitioning for the subdivision as the first step of
              entitlement to construct a 1,245-unit Multi-Family Dwelling development that
R
              includes 9,300 square feet of ground floor commercial and 1,079 total internal
              parking stalls.

       4.     The property at 2191 South 300 West is 7.318 Acres. The property at 2249 South
              300 West is 0.21 acres. The total development area of both lots is 7.53 acres.

       5.     The property at 2249 South 300 West is remnant Utah Transit Authority
D

              property currently used for utility and TRAX infrastructure. Utah Transit
              Authority granted a perpetual non-exclusive easement over, across, upon,
              under, and through the easement for the purposes of recreational trail use, a fire
              lane as required by State and local ordinances, codes, regulations, or other laws,
              dry utilities, and wet utilities, and loading and unloading across the subject
              property for the purposes of allowing SoDo 1 Owner, LLC to develop the
              property at 2191 South 300 West.

       6.     Both subject properties are located in the Downtown – Mixed Use subdistrict.
South Salt Lake City Planning Commission Meeting                                              8
August 31, 2023




       7.           The Multi-Family Dwelling use is a conditional use in the Downtown District.

       8.           The property located at 2191 South 300 West currently has three warehouse
                    buildings. The property located at 2249 South 300 West is vacant land.

       9.           The applicant intends to phase out demolition of the existing warehouse
                    buildings located at 2191 South 300 West by splitting the proposed development
                    into two phases. Phase one demolition will include the warehouse building




                                                 T
                    located along the southern boundary of the site and the warehouse building
                    located along the eastern boundary of the site. The applicant intends to delay
                    phase 2, which includes the warehouse building along the northern boundary of
                    the site, to maintain and phase out the existing lease agreements with tenants.

       10.          The applicant has submitted site plans that show the phasing of the development

            AF I.



              II.
                    area. The phasing site plans maintain and comply with all requirements of the
                    South Salt Lake Municipal Code, Fire Codes, and Building Codes.

                           Phase 1 – Demolition of southern warehouse and eastern warehouse.
                           Development building plans for Phase 1 of the Multi-Family building
                           that encompasses the area of the above buildings.

                           Phase 1 – Site plan that maintains the area of the northern warehouse
                           showing compliance with access, circulation, parking, Fire Code, etc.

             III.          Phase 2 – Demolition of the northern warehouse. Development building
                           plans for Phase 2 of the Multi-Family building and completion of the
                           development site.
R
       11.      The proposed development will be served by existing and new vehicular and
                pedestrian access points on Utopia Avenue and 300 West.

       12.      The applicant applied for a design review application on May 24, 2023. The
                Design Review Committee reviewed the application on May 24, 2023. The
                Design Review committee found the project to be a great asset to the further
D

                development of the South Salt Lake Downtown District.

       13.      Staff has reviewed this subdivision application for compliance with South Salt
                Lake Municipal Code Sections 17.10.120, 17.10.130, 17.10.140, 17.10.150,
                17.10.160, 17.10.170, 17.10.180, 17.10.190 and 17.10.200, and found that this
                subdivision application is compliant with this section, as outlined above.

Conclusions of Law:
South Salt Lake City Planning Commission Meeting                                            9
August 31, 2023


       1.     The subdivision, as specifically conditioned below, is consistent with the South
              Salt Lake City General Plan.

       2.     The subdivision, as specifically conditioned below is compatible in use, scale, and
              design with the allowed uses in the Downtown District.

       3.     The subdivision, as specifically conditioned below, does not compromise the
              health, safety, or welfare of: Persons employed within or using the proposed
              development; Those residing or working in the vicinity of the proposed use or
              development; or Property or improvements in the vicinity of the proposed use




                                              T
              or development.

       4.     The subdivision, as specifically conditioned below does not impose
              disproportionate burdens on the citizens of the city.

Subdivision Plat Conditions of Approval:

       1.


       2.
            AFThe applicant will continue to work with City staff to make all technical
              corrections necessary prior to recording.

              Prior to plat recordation and any additional development of the subsequent lot,
              the applicant must provide city staff the final plat mylar to include notarized
              signatures of owners’ consent to dedication; and obtain signatures of all entities
              indicated on the subdivision plat attached hereto.

       3.     The applicant shall complete (or post an adequate improvement completion
              assurance), warrant, and post required warranty assurance for all required
              landscaping and public infrastructure improvements including streetlights.
R
       4.     The applicant shall ensure that all site improvements are installed consistent
              with the requirements of the South Salt Lake City Municipal Code;

       5.     The Streetlighting Plan shall be submitted with the following:

              a.      The lighting plan shall show where they are connecting to the power
D

                      source. This must be approved by Rocky Mount Power.

              b.      The plan shall call out the SSLC Supplementary Standard Plan for the
                      pole base detail.

              c.      The plan shall show the conduit layout.

              d.      The lighting fixtures and pole height shall comply with the SSL Lighting
                      Master Plan;
South Salt Lake City Planning Commission Meeting                                            10
August 31, 2023


        6.    The applicant shall dedicate an easement to the City of South Salt for purposes
              of stormwater management practices and ensure the plat includes language of
              the dedication of such easement, in a form as approved by the City Attorney’s
              Office.

        7.    The proposed building shall be constructed according to South Salt Lake design
              standards.

        8.    The proposed Multi-Family development shall meet all requirements of the
              South Salt Lake Community Development Department, the South Salt Lake




                                                T
              Fire Marshal, the South Salt Lake Building Official, and the South Salt Lake
              Engineering Department.

        9.    The applicant shall comply with all applicable International Building Codes and
              International Fire Codes and must obtain and complete a South Salt Lake
              Building Permit.



Motion:

Second:
        10.
             AF
              All items of the staff report.

                                               Commissioner Southey

                                               Commissioner Spencer

Vote:                                          Commissioner Bellina – Aye
                                               Commissioner Carter – Aye;
                                               Commissioner Ewell – Aye;
                                               Commissioner Slifka – Aye;
                                               Commissioner Southey – Aye;
R
                                               Commissioner Spencer – Aye;
                                               Chair Pechmann – Aye.

                                               The vote was unanimous.

2.      Public Meeting – A Petition for a Conditional Use Permit for a Multi-Family Dwelling
        located at 2191 South 300 West.
D

Action Item

Applicant:    Woodbury Corporation
Address:      2191 South 300 West

Ms. Halleck reported that the third part of the entitlement process involves the applicant going
through the Design Review process and completing the Preliminary Plat. They are now requesting
approval of the Conditional Use Permit (“CUP”). Ms. Halleck explained that CUPs are reviewed
under two standards set forth in the Utah Code and outline the State requirements for conditional
South Salt Lake City Planning Commission Meeting                                                 11
August 31, 2023


uses. She explained that the Land Use Authority must approve a Conditional Use if reasonable
conditions are proposed or can be imposed to mitigate any potentially negative or detrimental impact.
South Salt Lake Title 17.05 outlines specific criteria for all CUPs. First, the use must be allowed in
the district where it is proposed. Second, the lot must be legally subdivided and be on a dedicated
public right-of-way. A number of general criteria must also be met. Ms. Halleck explained that
what is proposed is the maximum intensity of use on the 7.53-acre site. What is proposed is a very
large multi-family building consisting of 1,245 units.

Ms. Halleck explained that CUPs also look at traffic generation. A Traffic Study was conducted and
discussed previously along with the improvements the applicant is installing along 300 West, Utopia




                                               T
Avenue, and the fire lane. There was discussion of how the applicants will mitigate and improve
traffic through the area.

Utility demand and available capacity were discussed. The relocation and improvement of utilities
as well as meter sizes was reviewed and approved by South Salt Lake Engineering as having
adequate capacity. A primary element was emergency vehicle access and peak demand. A great
          AF
deal of time was spent with the South Salt Lake Fire Marshall and Fire Chief on the fire lane
implementation and alternative means and methods for how the building will be protected through
the vertical towers and ensuring that strategies are implemented through the construction and design
to address fire and life safety requirements imposed by the Fire and Police Departments to access
and service the building once constructed.

Ms. Halleck reported that staff addressed the location and amount of off-street parking. Internal
vehicular and pedestrian circulation and delivery vehicles loading and unloading were also
addressed. Significant thought had been given to how the building will be serviced, where deliveries
will be made, how waste management is performed within the parking structure where it loops,
where deliveries are staged, and the location of mailrooms. The applicant also addressed fencing,
screening, and landscaping relating to adjoining properties. Within the UTA corridor specifically,
there is a six-foot vinyl-coated chain link fence proposed that provides separation between the rail
R
line. That is the only fencing proposed on the site.

Ms. Halleck indicated that the project also went through a Crime Prevention Through Environmental
Design (“CPTED”) Review. The Police Department analyzed every detail of the site to ensure that
as many crime prevention techniques as possible can be implemented through the design elements.
The CUP also looks at building mass, bulk, design, and orientation compared to surrounding
properties. It was noted that to date, the surrounding properties have not been redeveloped. The
D

General Plan encourages redevelopment to have the same bulk and massing as the proposed building.
Over time, Ms. Halleck expected that transition to be made. The CUP also addresses usable open
space and amenities. A Photometric Study was completed that looks at both the public right-of-way
street lighting as well as internal lighting on the ground, the podium, and within the building. It
related back to the CPTED Plan.

Staff looked at future signage, which will require a separate permit and analysis. The intent,
however, was that it would be some form of wall signage with ground-level directional or retail
signage specific to each individual unit. The CUP also addresses noise, vibration, odors, steam, and
South Salt Lake City Planning Commission Meeting                                                  12
August 31, 2023


other factors that may adversely impact the property or off-site areas. Hours of operation were
addressed through their on-site management and location of internal services. All waste
management will take place within the parking structure and be serviced through the parking
structure and the fire lane.

Ms. Halleck reported that the CUP also looks at potential adverse impacts arising from the conduct
of patrons, guests, employees, occupants, or any affiliates. There will be an on-site leasing office
and a full-time management, maintenance, and operations team. The applicants have acknowledged
that they want to participate in the South Salt Lake Good Landlord Program, which contains a
number of key elements that help mitigate rental contracts and behavior on-site. Their management




                                                T
team is professional and trained to deal with nuisance behaviors and communicate expectations when
people sign Lease Agreements. The applicants also acknowledged that they have a team that will
be in direct contact with the South Salt Lake Police and Fire Departments. There was conversation
about after-hours access to the building and the type of communication that needs to be in place for
public safety as well as security cameras and monitoring.

          AF
The impact on environmentally sensitive lands was next addressed. Ms. Halleck commented that
the property is not in a flood plain and nothing is flagged as being environmentally sensitive. It is a
24/7 facility as any residential unit or home would be. The management office, however, will have
hours of operation that will be extended as necessary with on-call services as needed.

Demand for public infrastructure and services was next discussed. Ms. Halleck noted that the PID
has been addressed along with what the developer is dedicating and improving for the City along the
corridor. The DRC met on May 24, 2023, and is comprised of the Mayor, the Community
Development Director, a representative from the Neighborhoods Department, the Finance Director,
the City Engineer, the Economic Development Director, the City Attorney, and a representative from
the Police Department. Overall, the DRC found the project to be a great asset to the City and meets
the goals and vision of the Downtown District. Their primary discussion pertained to CPTED tactics
and the inclusion of murals along the ground floor facades to help mitigate potential tagging and
R
unsavory activity.

Staff recommended approval of the CUP based on the conditions, findings, and conclusions of law
enumerated in the Staff Report.

Commissioner Bellina asked about the rental range for each of the units. Mr. Smith stated that the
units will range from $1,300 to $2,000 per month and will be priced 10 to 15 percent less than similar
D

units in Downtown Salt Lake.

Chair Pechmann asked about the CPTED standards. Ms. Halleck recalled that the biggest concern
was that the Police Department have after-hours access.

Motion to APPROVE the Conditional Use Permit Application #2320037 to operate a Multi-
Family Dwelling development located at 2191 South 300 West and 2249 South 300 West based
on the following:
South Salt Lake City Planning Commission Meeting                                         13
August 31, 2023


Findings of Fact:

        1.    On January 26, 2023, Woodbury Corporation submitted a Conditional Use
              Permit application on behalf of SoDo 1 Owner, LLC and Utah Transit Authority
              to build and operate a Multi-Family dwelling building located at 2191 South 300
              West and 2249 South 300 West.

        2.    The subject properties are located at 2191 South 300 West and 2249 South 300
              West in South Salt Lake City.




                                              T
        3.    The subject properties consist of two separate lots.

        4.    All subject properties are located in the Downtown – Mixed Use subdistrict.

        5.    The applicant applied for a subdivision application on January 18, 2023, to
              subdivide each of the subject parcels by subdivision plat to comply with the
         AF   South Salt Lake Municipal Code. SoDo 1 Owner, LLC will retain ownership of
              the lot located at 2191 South 300 West. The Utah Transit Authority will retain
              ownership of the lot located at 2249 South 300 West. Utah Transit Authority
              granted a perpetual non-exclusive easement over, across, upon, under, and
              through the easement for the purposes of recreational trail use, a fire lane as
              required by State and local ordinances, codes, regulations, or other laws, dry
              utilities and wet utilities, and loading and unloading across Utah Transit
              Authorities property located at 2249 South 300 West. The preliminary
              subdivision plat was reviewed by the Planning Commission on August 31, 2023.

        6.    The total development area is 7.53 acres.
R
        7.    The applicant is petitioning to construct a 1,245-unit Multi-Family Dwelling
              development that includes 9,300 square feet of ground floor commercial and
              1,079 total internal parking stalls.

        8.    The Multi-Family Dwelling use is a conditional use in the Downtown District.

        9.    The South Salt Lake Municipal Code regulates Multi-Family Dwelling
D

              conditional uses through the standards found in 17.05.010, 17.05.020, 17.05.030,
              17.05.050, and 17.05.060. There are no specific standards for Multi-Family
              Dwellings found in Section 17.05.040 of the South Salt Lake Municipal Code.

        10.   The property located at 2191 South 300 West currently has three warehouse
              buildings. The property located at 2249 South 300 West is vacant land.

        11.   The applicant intends to phase out demolition of the existing warehouse
              buildings located at 2191 South 300 West by splitting the proposed development
              into two phases. Phase one demolition will include the warehouse building
South Salt Lake City Planning Commission Meeting                                             14
August 31, 2023


                 located along the southern boundary of the site and the warehouse building
                 located along the eastern boundary of the site. The applicant intends to delay
                 phase 2, which includes the warehouse building along the northern boundary of
                 the site, to maintain and phase out the existing lease agreements with tenants.

        12.      The applicant has submitted site plans that show the phasing of the development
                 area. The phasing site plans maintain and comply with all requirements of the
                 South Salt Lake Municipal Code, Fire Codes, and Building Codes.




                                              T
               I.       Phase 1 – Demolition of southern warehouse and eastern warehouse.
                        Development building plans for Phase 1 of the Multi-Family building
                        that encompasses the area of the above buildings.

              II.       Phase 1 – Site plan that maintains the area of the northern warehouse
                        showing compliance with access, circulation, parking, Fire Code, etc.




        13.

        14.
            AF
            III.        Phase 2 – Demolition of the northern warehouse. Development building
                        plans for Phase 2 of the Multi-Family building and completion of the
                        development site.

                The proposed development will be served by existing and new vehicular and
                pedestrian access points on Utopia Avenue and 300 West.
                The applicant applied for a design review application on May 24, 2023. The
                Design Review Committee reviewed the application on May 24, 2023. The
                Design Review committee found the project to be a great asset to the further
                development of the South Salt Lake Downtown District.
        15.     Staff has reviewed this conditional use permit application for compliance with
                South Salt Lake Municipal Code Sections 17.05.010, 17.05.020, 17.05.030,
R
                17.05.050, and 17.05.060, and found that this conditional use permit application
                is compliant with this section, as outlined above.

Conclusions of Law:

       1.       The use, as specifically conditioned below, is consistent with the South Salt Lake
                City General Plan.
D

       2.       The use, as specifically conditioned below is compatible in use, scale, and design
                with the allowed uses in the Downtown District.

       3.       The use, as specifically conditioned below, does not compromise the health,
                safety, or welfare of: Persons employed within or using the proposed
                development; Those residing or working in the vicinity of the proposed use or
                development; or Property or improvements in the vicinity of the proposed use
                or development.
South Salt Lake City Planning Commission Meeting                                          15
August 31, 2023


       4.     The use, as specifically conditioned below does not impose disproportionate
              burdens on the citizens of the City.

Conditional Use Permit Conditions of Approval:

       1.     The proposed Multi-Family development shall meet all requirements of the
              South Salt Lake Municipal Code.

       2.     The property owner shall comply with all applicable International Building
              Codes and International Fire Codes and must obtain and complete a South Salt




                                              T
              Lake Building Permit.

       3.     The property owner shall obtain a South Salt Lake City sign permit prior to any
              sign installation.

       4.     The property owner shall obtain approval from South Salt Lake City prior to


       5.


       6.
            AFany murals being painted

              The property owner shall apply for and complete a South Salt Lake Rental
              Business License Application.

              The property owner shall apply, complete, and maintain compliance with the
              South Salt Lake Good Landlord Program as found in Title 4.12 of the South Salt
              Lake Municipal Code.

              a.      Provide proof that the person or persons responsible for the management
                      of the rental housing has/have: (1) made arrangements with an entity
                      authorized to complete background checks; (2) procured a lease form
R
                      that allows prompt eviction for criminal acts or maintaining a nuisance;
                      (3) completed good landlord training provided or approved by the City
                      prior to certification and once every three years thereafter. A property
                      is exempt from the training requirement if the manager or landlord
                      maintains a designation as a certified property manager with the Utah
                      Division of Real Estate or is otherwise exempt pursuant to state law.
D

              b.      Within thirty (30) days of a change in the person or persons responsible
                      for the management of rental housing, provide proof to the city that the
                      new manager(s) has/have completed good landlord training provided or
                      approved by the City.

              c.      The property owner shall require a written lease for every rental unit.

              d.      The property owner shall require all adult occupants of the unit to be
                      listed on the lease.
South Salt Lake City Planning Commission Meeting                                            16
August 31, 2023


              e.      The property owner shall perform criminal background checks on every
                      adult who will be listed on the lease so that the landlord is aware of past
                      criminal convictions of the prospective tenant.

              f.      The property owner shall utilize a lease form that allows eviction for
                      criminal acts or maintaining a nuisance by a tenant, occupant, or guest.

              g.      The property owner shall serve notice of eviction upon a tenant within
                      five days of receiving notice from the City of evidence which




                                              T
                      demonstrates by a preponderance of the evidence that a tenant or
                      tenant's guest has been involved in a criminal act or maintained a
                      nuisance on the premises.

              h.      The property owner shall provide the City with a telephone number,
                      email, and postal address for the property owner or property owner’s
                      representative to which information regarding inappropriate behavior
            AFi.
                      by tenants, occupants, or their guests and other notices, which may be
                      sent to the property owner or property owner’s representative. The
                      property owner agrees that this information is sufficient to provide
                      notice, is accurate, and will be kept up to date.

                      The property owner shall implement CPTED (Crime Prevention through
                      Environmental Design) on the premises.

              j.      The property owner will maintain the rental dwelling in a fit and
                      habitable condition, as required by State code and relevant building, fire,
                      and land use codes.
R
       7.     The development shall be limited to a maximum of 1,245 residential units and
              9,300 square feet of ground-floor commercial.

       8.     The final design of the building shall comply with the Downtown Code Section 5,
              Building Types for urban style multi-family buildings.

       9.     The property owner shall continually meet all amenity requirements as outlined
D

              in the Building Types Standards and below:

              a.      Installation of public art amenity (murals in public spaces);

              b.      Open Space (above requirement);

              c.      Upgraded floor coverings in place of carpet;

              d.      Washer and dryer in every unit;
South Salt Lake City Planning Commission Meeting                                        17
August 31, 2023


              e.      Full-time on-site management; and

              f.      Solid doors serving all main entrances, bedrooms, and bathrooms in the
                      unit.



       10.    The property owner shall continually maintain all amenity requirements as
              outlined in the Tenant Amenity Standards and below:




                                               T
              a.      Lobby;

              b.      Interior social areas;

              c.      Indoor fitness room;

         AF   d.

              e.

              f.

              g.
                      Secured bike storage and changing facilities;

                      Enclosed storage units;

                      Pool; and

                      Hot Tub.

       11.    The property owner shall continually maintain 25% common open space on-
              site.

       12.    On-site amenities and useable open space will not be removed or repurposed
              without City approval.
R
       13.    The property owner will continuously comply with all applicable eligible rate
              reductions to justify a 20% reduction in parking, for a total of 1,079 on-site:

              a.      Unbundled Parking (0.1% parking reduction);

              b.      Bike Share (0.05% parking reduction); and
D

              c.      Bike Storage Lockers (0.05% parking reduction);

       14.    The site shall comply with the Downtown Code Section 7, Landscape Standards.

       15.    The property owner shall continually maintain on-site management, as
              proposed.
South Salt Lake City Planning Commission Meeting                                         18
August 31, 2023


               a.     On-site management shall monitor daily the site for solid waste, litter,
                      loitering, camping, and other such nuisances; and

               b.     On-site management shall monitor daily the residential amenity
                      components of the building.

        16.    All items of the staff report.

Motion:                                         Commissioner Bellina




                                                 T
Second:                                         Commissioner Carter

Vote:                                           Commissioner Bellina – Aye
                                                Commissioner Carter – Aye;
                                                Commissioner Ewell – Aye;
                                                Commissioner Slifka – Aye;
          AF                                    Commissioner Southey – Aye;
                                                Commissioner Spencer – Aye;
                                                Chair Pechmann – Aye.

                                                The vote was unanimous.

                                                The vote was unanimous.

CONTINUING BUSINESS

None at this time.

PLANNING COMMISSION BUSINESS
R
3.      Approval of the August 17, 2023, Planning Commission Meeting Minutes.

Action Item

Motion to APPROVE the minutes of August 17, 2023.
D

Motion:                                         Commissioner Carter

Second:                                         Commissioner Slifka

Vote:                                           Commissioner Bellina – Aye
                                                Commissioner Carter – Aye;
                                                Commissioner Ewell – Aye;
                                                Commissioner Slifka – Aye;
                                                Commissioner Southey – Aye;
South Salt Lake City Planning Commission Meeting                             19
August 31, 2023


                                            Commissioner Spencer – Aye;
                                            Chair Pechmann – Aye.

                                            The vote was unanimous.

ADJOURNMENT

Motion to ADJOURN.




                                              T
Motion:                                     Commissioner Carter

Second:                                     Commissioner Ewell

Vote:                                       Commissioner Bellina – Aye
                                            Commissioner Carter – Aye;
                                            Commissioner Ewell – Aye;
          AF                                Commissioner Slifka – Aye;
                                            Commissioner Southey – Aye;
                                            Commissioner Spencer – Aye;
                                            Chair Pechmann – Aye.

                                            The vote was unanimous.

The Planning Commission Meeting adjourned at approximately 8:30 p.m.
R
                                                   For Planning Commission

________________________________
Community Development
D