South Salt Lake City Council
                                       Work Meeting Agenda

Public notice is hereby given that the South Salt Lake City Council will hold a Work Meeting on
Wednesday, July 26, 2023 in the City Council Chambers, 220 East Morris Avenue, Suite 200,
commencing at 6:45 p.m., or as soon thereafter as possible.

To watch the meeting live click the link below to join:
https://zoom.us/j/93438486912

Watch recorded City Council meetings at youtube.com/@SouthSaltLakeCity

Conducting: Council Chair Bynum

MATTERS FOR DISCUSSION:


    1. Re-Appointment of Administrative Law Judge—Steven Jones               Mayor Wood


    2. Council Rule 3 (9)(a) Discussion                                      Sharla Bynum


        Adjourn


Posted July 21, 2023



Those needing auxiliary communicative aids or other services for this meeting should
contact Ariel Andrus at 801-483-6019, giving at least 24 hours’ notice.

In accordance with State Statute and Council Policy, one or more Council Members may be
connected electronically.

Have a question or concern? Call the connect line 801-464-6757 or email connect@sslc.gov
                                 Steven G. Jones                    Practice Areas
                                 Shareholder
                                                                    Litigation
                                                                    Natural Resources, Water, Environmental
                                                                      and Local Government Law
                                                                    Commercial Real Estate Transactions and
                                                                      Litigation
                                                                    Environmental & Local Government Law
                                                                    Water Law
                                                                    Natural Resources
                                                                    Air Quality



      Steve Jones is Chair of the Environmental and Natural Resources Section. He has extensive experience
      handling a wide variety of environmental matters in both the litigation and transactional arenas. Mr.
      Jones has litigated cases under every major environmental statute, including CERCLA, RCRA, the Clean
      Water Act and Clean Air Act, and acted as lead defense counsel in both citizen suits and environmental
      enforcement actions brought by state and federal agencies. He has extensive experience in obtaining
      state and federal permits for projects, acting on behalf of both public and private clients, as well as
      defending those permits once they have been obtained. He also has broad experience in insurance
      coverage issues, acting on behalf of insureds.

      Prior to joining Ray, Quinney & Nebeker, Mr. Jones was a lead environmental litigator at Holland & Hart
      for six years. He was also a partner at Marten Law PLLC, a preeminent environmental law boutique, in
      Seattle, Washington for eleven years. Among his other work experience, he served a judicial clerkship in
      the Federal District Court for the District of Hawaii.

      Mr. Jones earned his J.D. at Harvard Law School in 1989. Prior to that, he earned a master's degree in
      political philosophy at University College Cardiff, in Cardiff, Wales, U.K. He earned B.S. degrees in
      Political Science and Philosophy at Utah State in 1985.

      Mr. Jones has been included on the list of The Best Lawyers in America© 2023 in Environmental Law and
      Environmental Litigation. He has been selected for inclusion in Mountain States Super Lawyers in the
      categories of Environmental and Environmental Litigation and has been voted by his peers throughout
      the state as one of Utah's "Legal Elite," as published in Utah Business Magazine (2020-2021).



RQN.COM                                                                                        RAY QUINNEY & NEBEKER
      EDUCATION
           Harvard Law School, J.D., 1989
           University College Cardiff, in Cardiff, Wales, U.K., M.A., Political Philosophy, 1987
           Utah State University, B.S., Political Science and Philosophy, 1985



      PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE
          • Holland & Hart LLP, 2013-2019
          • Marten Law PLLC, 2002-2013
          • Foster Pepper PLLC, 1990-2002



      ADMITTED TO PRACTICE
          • Utah State Bar
          • Washington State Bar
          • Oregon State Bar
          • Hawaii State Bar
          • Tenth Circuit Court of Appeals
          • Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals



      AFFILIATIONS / MEMBERSHIPS
          • American Bar Association, Environment, Energy and Resources Section
          • American Bar Association, Litigation Section
          • Utah State Bar, Energy, Natural Resources & Environmental Law Section
          • Former Chair, Washington State Bar's Environmental and Land Use Section



      PROFESSIONAL AND CIVIC ACTIVITY
          • Adjunct Professor, University of Utah S.J. Quinney College of Law


RQN.COM                                                                                            RAY QUINNEY & NEBEKER
          • Listed in Best Lawyers in America in Environmental Litigation since 2009; named Best Lawyers
            "Lawyer of the Year" for the State of Utah in Environmental Litigation in 2017
          • Recognized in Utah Business Magazine as one of Utah's "Legal Elite" in Environmental Litigation since
            2017
          • Selected for inclusion in Super Lawyers, in Environmental Law since 2004
          • Presenter at ABA Annual Environmental Conference, receiving award for best paper at the conference
          • Former Editor, ABA Superfund and Natural Resources Litigation Newsletter



      PUBLICATIONS / PRESENTATIONS
          • Jones, S., (Panelist), Developing Dirty Dirt - Environmental Due Diligence in Utah for Financing,
            Acquisition and Development of Brownfield Properties [Webinar], Ray Quinney & Nebeker (Producer),
            March 3, 2021
          • Author, Corps of Engineers to Streamline Section 408 Permitting Process (March 14, 2018)
          • Presenter, "Developing a Defensible Permit Record in the Age of Citizen Suits" (October 2017)
          • Presenter, "Environmental and Transactional Risk Insurance: What Lies Ahead?" (July 2017)
          • Author, The More Things Change, the More They Stay the Same (March 21, 2017)
          • Presenter, "Strategic Planning and Public Outreach on Large-Scale Infrastructure Projects," (March
            2017)
          • Author, Ninth Circuit Holds that Dispersing Contaminants Into the Air Does Not Constitute 'Disposal'
            Under CERCLA (September 22, 2016)
          • Presenter, "Public Outreach in Pre-Permitting Stages of a Transmission Project" (January 2016)
          • Author, USFWS Lists Gunnison Sage-Grouse as "Threatened Species" Under ESA (December 11, 2014)
          • Presenter, "Response to Catastrophic Environmental Events," Wallace Stegner Center Conference
            (2014)
          • Presenter, "Redefining Waters of the U.S.," International Minerals Association - North America Annual
            Meeting (2014)




RQN.COM                                                                                          RAY QUINNEY & NEBEKER
                         SOUTH SALT LAKE CITY
                   CITY COUNCIL RULES OF PROCEDURE
                     (Last Amended July 13, 2022)

Listed below are the rules of procedure used by the South Salt
Lake City Council. The Council has not adopted the formality of
Robert's Rules of Order. However, the following rules are based
on Robert's Rules of Order, with modifications, and more fully
suit the needs of the South Salt Lake City Council. These are
not the only rules followed by the South Salt Lake City Council.
They are in addition to rules set forth in Utah Code Annotated
(Title 10, Utah Municipal Code, and Title 52, Chapter 4, Open
and Public Meetings). All rules and procedures of the South Salt
Lake City Council must remain consistent with the Utah Code.
These rules shall be made available to the public at each public
meeting held by the Council and shall be posted on the City’s
website.

When the Rules refer to "2/3 vote of Council Members", 2/3 will
be defined as follows:

If there are   7      Council Members present,   5   will be   2/3
If there are   6      Council Members present,   4   will be   2/3
If there are   5      Council Members present,   3   will be   2/3
If there are   4      Council Members present,   3   will be   2/3

Rule 1:   Organization of the Council - Election of the
          Chairperson and Vice-Chairperson

    1.    The Council Members will elect one Council Member as
          Chairperson and one Council Member as Vice-
          Chairperson. The elections will take place once a year
          at the first work meeting in January, or at a work
          meeting called specially for such election, to be held
          immediately preceding the first regular Council
          meeting in January. The action of the Council will be
          announced in the first regular Council meeting after
          such work meeting.

    2.    The election shall comply with the following
          procedures:

          (a) The Council Chair shall call for nominations, and
          any member of the Council may submit names for
          nomination. A voice vote is necessary to close the
          period of time for nominations.

          (b) If two or fewer names are submitted for
          nomination, then only one vote will be held. If three
          or more are submitted, then voting will take place in
          two rounds.

          (c) Voting shall be by written ballot which identifies
          the Council member casting the vote. The City Recorder
          shall collect all written votes and announce the vote
          cast, as well as the council member who cast the vote.

          (d) In elections with two rounds, the first round
          shall narrow the field of candidates down to the two
          who received the most votes, and the Council will vote
          in a second round.

          (e) Separate ballots shall be held for the Chairperson
          and Vice-Chairperson positions.

          (f) All direct ties between two candidates shall be
          resolved by an immediate coin toss by the City
          Recorder in the presence of the Council. The Council
          Member whose surname is earlier in the alphabet shall
          be assigned “heads.” In the event of a three-way tie
          in an initial round of voting, the field shall be
          narrowed by means of drawing straws, with the Council
          Member who draws the short straw being eliminated.
          Straws shall be drawn by Council Members in
          alphabetical order.

    3.    The Chairperson and Vice-Chairperson shall serve for a
          one-year term.

    4.    In the event of a vacancy in the position of
          Chairperson, the Vice-Chairperson shall become
          Chairperson and shall serve the remainder of the term.
          A vacancy in the position of Vice-Chairperson shall be
          filled by election in the manner prescribed in
          paragraph 2 of this Rule.

Rule 2:   Powers and Duties of the Chairperson and Vice-
          Chairperson

    1.    The Chairperson shall sign:

          (a)   all ordinances and resolutions passed by the
                Council,

          (b)   all official minutes of City Council meetings
                after such minutes have been approved, and
          (c)   all correspondence determined by the Council
                Members to be representative of the group as a
                whole.

    2.    The Chairperson shall receive all messages and
          communications from the Mayor and others addressed to
          the Council as a body and shall be responsible to
          convey all such messages and communications to the
          other Council Members. All email communication between
          any member of the City Council and the Mayor, or City
          staff, shall be conducted through City issued email.

    3.    During emergency, special, or work meetings, the
          Chairperson shall serve as Conducting Council Member,
          or the Chairperson may designate another Council
          Member to conduct. (See Rule 7, number 1).

    4.    In the absence of the Chairperson, or upon his/her
          inability to act, or upon request of the Chairperson,
          the Vice-Chairperson shall preside and shall have all
          the powers and authority of the Chairperson.

    5.    In the absence of both the Chairperson and Vice-
          Chairperson at a meeting, the Council Member who
          conducted at a meeting may sign all documents
          identified in this rule upon which final action was
          taken during that meeting.

Rule 3:   Scheduling and Calling of Meetings

    The following are the types of Council meetings that may be
    called or scheduled according to the Utah Code:

                Regular Council Meetings
                Work meetings
                Special meetings
                Emergency Meetings
                Closed Meetings
                Public Hearings

    1.    At least once each year the City Council shall give
          public notice of its annual meeting schedule as
          required by Utah Code Annotated 52-4-202(2)(a), 1953,
          as amended.

    2.    The City Council will meet in at least one regularly
          scheduled meeting per month. The City Council intends
     to hold two meetings per month. Meetings will usually
     be held the second and fourth Wednesdays unless
     otherwise calendared. A Notice/Agenda for such
     meetings will be noticed in compliance with state law.

3.   The Council Chairperson may schedule one or more
     "work" meeting of the Council each month, as needed. A
     Notice/Agenda for such "work" meetings will be
     "posted" at least 24 hours prior to the time of such
     meeting. (See Rule 4 for more information about "work"
     meetings.)

          Any two (2) members of the Council or the Mayor
     may "order" a special meeting of the Council if the
     business of the City requires it. The order will be
          entered in the minutes of the City Council and
     shall provide at least three (3) hours' notice, which
     notice shall be served by the Recorder on each Council
     Member who did not sign the order by delivering the
     notice personally or by leaving it at the Council
     Member's usual place of abode. Utah Code Ann. Section
     10-3-502, as amended. Notice of the meeting may also
     be conveyed by a telephone conversation or voice mail
     if personal delivery is not accomplished. All other
     notice and voting requirements shall be as required by
     the Utah Open and Public Meetings Act.

5.   Any one (1) member of the Council or the Mayor may
     call an Emergency Meeting for "matters of an emergency
     or urgent matter." An attempt will be made to notify
     all Council Members of such meeting and the best
     notice practicable shall be given as required by the
     Open and Public Meetings Act. A majority of Council
     Members must vote in the affirmative to hold the
     meeting. Utah Code Ann. Section 52-4-202, as amended.

6.   In certain circumstances, the Council may deem it
     advisable to take certain matters under discussion at
     a noticed meeting into a Closed Meeting with only the
     Council Members and City staff personnel essential to
     the meeting present. Such meeting may only be held
     upon the affirmative vote of 2/3 of the Council
     Members present at such meeting. (See Rule 7, number 6
     for more information about Closed Meetings).

7.   A public hearing on Council business generally is a
     part of a regularly scheduled and noticed Council
     meeting. (See Rule 7, number 5 for more information
      about public hearings).

8.    In compliance with this Rule, the Council may permit
      one or more Council Members located in a remote
      location to participate in a Council meeting by way of
      electronic communication.

9.    Prior to permitting a Council Member located in a
      remote location to participate electronically in a
      Council meeting, the following conditions shall be
      met:

      (a)   A Council Member who desires to participate in a
            Council meeting from a remote location shall make
            a request to the Council Chairperson at least
            forty-eight (48) hours prior to the Council
            meeting.

      (b)   The City Recorder will affirm that proper notice
            of the intent to hold an “electronic meeting” was
            given as provided in paragraph 10 of this rule;

      (c)   The City Recorder will verify that an electronic
            connection is available, at no substantial cost
            to the City, sufficient to allow the remotely
            situated Council Member(s) to hear the discussion
            occurring in the Council meeting and to be heard
            in the meeting; and

      (d)   Only one member of the Council must be in
            attendance at the anchor location, which shall be
            the Council Chambers at City Hall.
            Notwithstanding the forgoing, upon a written
            determination by the Council Chair that meeting
            with an anchor location presents a substantial
            risk to the health and safety of those who may be
            present at the principal location all members of
            the Council may join electronically and presence
            at the anchor location is not required. A quorum
            shall be present so long as at least four members
            of the Council participate.

10.   Notice of the intent to permit one or more remotely
      situated Council Members to participate in a Council
      meeting electronically or hold a meeting
      electronically without an anchor location will be made
      in accordance with the Open and Public Meetings Act.
Rule 4:   Work Meetings

    1.    The Council may, at the call of any two Council
          Members or the Council Chair, sit in a work meeting
          for the purpose of further discussion or study of
          items already before the Council for action or for the
          purpose of discussing items of Council business. The
          Council Chair, or a Council Member designated by the
          Chair, shall conduct such meetings.

    2.    Notice of work meetings shall be in conformance with
          the Utah Open and Public Meetings Act and the agenda
          for such meetings shall be posted by the City
          Recorder. Only those items listed on the posted agenda
          will be discussed at a work meeting. All work
          meetings of the Council shall be open.

    3.    After discussion, items will be referred to a future
          regular Council meeting to be considered under
          Unfinished Council Business or under the Consent
          Agenda if the matter is ready for final action, or to
          a future work meeting if the matter needs further work
          by the Council.

    4.    No action will be taken at a work meeting on items
          discussed during that meeting. However, the Council
          may suspend its rules to vote on matters under
          discussion. Suspension of the rules requires the
          affirmative vote of a majority of the Council Members.

    5.    Work meetings may be used for the purpose of special
          presentations, such as instructions on emergency
          preparedness, introduction to and discussion about
          pending or expected Council meeting agenda items,
          reports from elected officials, etc. Work meetings
          also will be used to discuss Council procedures, to
          set yearly Council meeting dates and to elect Council
          Chair and Vice-Chair.

    6.    During a work meeting the Council Members and the
          Mayor may sit around a conference table, rather than
          at the podium, to provide a more informal atmosphere
          and to allow a freer exchange of ideas.

Rule 5:   Minutes of the Council - Recordings

    1.    The City Recorder shall keep the minutes of the
          proceedings of all open City Council meetings or any
     meeting during which official action of the Council is
     taken.

2.   Within thirty days of the open meeting, the City
     Recorder shall present the draft minutes to the
     Council for final approval by the Council. When
     convenient and possible, the Council shall approve,
     amend, or reject the minutes at its next meeting.
     Minutes which are submitted for approval, but upon
     which action is not taken within thirty days, shall be
     deemed approved and stand as proposed. Draft minutes
     are public records and must be clearly designated as
     “draft” minutes on any copy provided to the public.

3.   Except for closed meetings to exclusively discuss the
     character, professional competence, or physical or
     mental health of an individual, or for discussion
     regarding deployment of security personnel, devices,
     or systems (see UCA 52-4-206(1) and (6)), upon request
     by any Council Member, the City Recorder may also keep
     minutes of closed meetings. Minutes and recordings of
     closed meetings shall be designated as protected
     records, pursuant to the Utah Government Records
     Access and Management Act.

4.   The minutes of all meetings will include the time and
     date, the names of those speaking, reflect the essence
     of the proceedings and the perceived intent of the
     person speaking and will not necessarily be a verbatim
     transcript. Where necessary, as determined by the
     Council to accurately reflect the proceedings, a
     specific and/or verbatim transcript of the proceedings
     will be included in the minutes. If a Council Member,
     the Mayor, a member of the public or any other person
     wishes something to be entered verbatim in the
     minutes, a written copy of such entry will be provided
     to the City Recorder. Minutes may not be amended to
     include information which was not a part of the
     meeting.

5.   The City Recorder shall make and keep an audio or
     audio-visual recording of all meetings, unless
     excepted pursuant to state law. The recording shall be
     made and kept in a format conducive to long-term
     storage. Recordings of open meetings shall be
     available to the public for inspection or purchase
     within three (3) business days of the Council hearing.
Rule 6:   Order of Business and Organization of Council Agenda

    1.    The Council will consider business in the following
          order:

               A.   Opening Ceremonies:

               1.    Welcome/Introductions - Acknowledge
                     Visitors
               2.    Serious Moment of Reflection/Pledge of
                     Allegiance
               3.    Special recognitions

          B.   Approval of Minutes
          C.   No Action Comments

               1.    Scheduling
               2.    Public Comments/Questions
                          (a) Response to Comments/Questions (at
                              discretion of Conducting Council
                              Member)
               3.    Mayor
               4.    City Attorney
               5.    City Council Members
               7.    Information (must be listed on Agenda)

          D.   Action Items

               1.    Consent Agenda
               2.    Unfinished Council Business
               3.    New Council Business

          E.   Public Hearings

          F.   Closed Meeting

    2.    The conducting Council Member, by polling the Council
          Members, may, by affirmative consensus, proceed out of
          order to any order of business or return to an order
          already past. If two or more Council Members oppose,
          the original agenda will be followed. Information
          agenda items may be held prior to Public Comment where
          state law requires a specific Information item to have
          public comment (such as when a taxing entity other
          than the City is required to present information to
          the Council regarding a tax rate that entity is
          adopting, which exceeds the certified tax rate and
          public comment is required on that topic).
    3.    An item which appears on New Council Business may be
          referred to (a) the Consent Agenda for final action,
          (b) Unfinished Council Business for further discussion
          or action, (c) a work meeting of the Council for
          further study, or (d) a future meeting for a public
          hearing, if required.

          The Council may suspend the rules to vote to adopt on
          first reading if immediate action is necessary, or
          otherwise deemed appropriate. Suspension of the rules
          requires the affirmative vote of a majority of the
          Council Members. See Rule 17 for more information
          about suspension of the rules.

    4.    An item may be placed on the Consent Agenda after
          discussion at a work meeting for the next regular
          meeting or may be placed on the agenda for a regular
          meeting on the same date as the work meeting, so long
          as it is done in compliance with state law.

    5.    Matters appearing on the Agenda may be discussed by
          the Council prior to any motion being made.

    6.    All open meetings of the Council shall be open to the
          public. Any Council Member, administrative staff or
          member of the public may request time to discuss
          matters of City business or to place an item on the
          agenda. Request for time to discuss a matter shall be
          made to the Chairperson with sufficient time for it to
          be placed on an agenda in compliance with state law,
          and whenever practical, shall be scheduled by the
          Chairperson for the first available regular or work
          Council meeting.

Rule 7:   Conducting of Meetings and Agenda Definitions

    The Chairperson shall serve as Conducting Council Member
    for special, emergency, or work meetings, or the
    Chairperson may designate another Council Member to
    conduct.

    Each Council Member, other than the current Chairperson,
    shall conduct at regular Council meetings for a period of
    one month, not less than once per year nor more than twice
    per year, progressing in order from the representative for
    District #1 to the representative for District #5. At-large
    representatives shall rotate after the District
representatives in alphabetical order.

The powers of the Conducting Council Member shall be
limited to conducting the regular meetings of the Council
only.

The Conducting Council Member will sit at the center of the
podium, with the Council Chairperson at his or her right
and with the Council Vice-Chair at his or her left.

The following steps are detailed to coincide with the form
of the Agenda (as discussed in Rule 6 above) when
conducting a regular Council meeting:

1.   Opening Ceremonies.

     (a)   Welcome/Introductions - Acknowledge Visitors.
           The Conducting Council Member will strike the
           gavel, call the meeting to order, welcome those
           in attendance and acknowledge visitors.

     (b)   Serious Moment of Reflection/Pledge of
           Allegiance. The Council Member assigned to give
           the serious moment of reflection will announce
           the name of the person scheduled to present the
           serious moment of reflection, the person’s
           connection to the City and the general nature of
           the presentation, for example, a prayer,
           supplication, inspirational thought,
           inspirational reading, a moment of silence or
           other appropriate activity, or in the absence of
           such a presenter, the Council Member assigned
           shall present the serious moment of reflection.
           Following the serious moment of reflection, the
           Council Member will ask the audience to rise for
           the Pledge of Allegiance and lead the Pledge. As
           more particularly set forth in Rule 21, any
           community member may volunteer to present the
           serious moment of reflection.

     (c)   Special Recognitions. Occasionally, ceremonial
           tasks are performed at the beginning of the
           Council meeting. Normally, such items do not
           require a motion and very seldom require
           discussion. Resolutions of Appreciation do
           require a motion to adopt, a second, and a vote.

2.   Approval of Minutes. The next agenda item is approval
     of the Minutes of preceding meeting(s). The Conducting
     Council Member will ask if there are any changes or
     corrections. When changes and corrections have been
     made, the Conducting Council Member will ask for a
     motion and second to adopt the minutes as corrected,
     and a voice vote will be taken. Once the minutes have
     been adopted pursuant to a vote by the council, no
     alterations can be made and they are the official
     record of the meeting.

3.   No Action Comments. The Conducting Council Member will
     not need to ask for a motion concerning any items
     listed under this section of the Agenda. However, any
     Council Member can make a request to schedule an item
     to appear on a future Agenda as an "Action Item."

     (a)   Scheduling. The Recorder will inform those in
           attendance of up-coming events, meetings, etc.,
           in the community which may be of interest to
           members of the public.

     (b)   Public Comments/Questions. Time shall be made
           available for anyone in the audience to address
           the Council and/or Mayor concerning matters
           pertaining to City business. Sign-up cards for
           Public Comments shall be made available to
           attendees at all regular meetings to gather names
           and addresses for the Recorder’s purposes.
           Persons who sign such cards ahead of time may be
           given priority to speak.

           (1) When a member of the audience addresses the
           Council and/or Mayor, that individual will come
           to the podium and state the individual’s name and
           city/town in which the individual resides.
           Individuals will be asked to limit their
           remarks/questions to three (3) minutes each.
           Comments shall be civil in decorum. All comments
           shall be directed to the Mayor and City Council.
           During the comment period, no person shall be
           allowed to comment more than once. Speakers
           should not expect any debate or dialogue with the
           Mayor, City Council, or City Staff during the
           meeting.

           (2) In meetings during which numerous individuals
           wish to comment, the time for all public comments
           may be limited to less than three (3) minutes
each, at the discretion of the Conducting Council
Member. The Conducting Council Member shall have
discretion as to who, if anyone, may respond to a
comment/question. In all cases the criteria for
response will be that comments/questions must be
pertinent to City business, that there are no
argumentative questions and no personal attacks.
Some comments/questions may have to wait for a
response until the next regular Council meeting
or may be referred to the Mayor’s office to
receive information from or input by staff. The
Conducting Council Member (or another individual
designated by the Conducting Council Member) will
inform a member of the public when that
individual’s allotted time for comment has ended.

(3) Public comments regarding specific matters on
a Council meeting agenda may be postponed until
later in the regular Council meeting in order to
be heard following the presentation of the
specific business item at the discretion of the
Conducting Council Member.

(4) Members of the public who are not able to
personally attend a meeting may present written
comments, addressed to the City Council and/or
Mayor, to the City Recorder at least two (2)
hours prior to the meeting. Written comments may
be delivered to the City Recorder via letter or
electronic mail and should be labeled as “written
comment” for a particular meeting. Appropriately
labeled and timely received written comments will
be distributed to all Council members and
attached to the written minutes of the meeting.
Council members and/or the Mayor may, in their
discretion, reference the receipt of particular
written comments. In no event is there a
guarantee that written comments will be read
verbatim or otherwise referred to during the
council meeting. Additionally, anyone who is
unable to personally attend a meeting may present
a comment by leaving a recorded message with the
City at a number, or through another method
designated by the City, for that purpose. Each
recorded comment shall clearly state at the
beginning of the message that it is intended for
the Public Comment portion of the City Council
meeting, shall clearly state the name of the
           individual providing comment, and shall clearly
           state the City in which the individual leaving
           the comment resides. All comments, whether
           written or recorded, must be civil and conform to
           the same rules as all other public comments.

           (5) Grievances by City employees must be
           processed in accordance with adopted personnel
           rules.

     (c)   Mayor. The Mayor will have the opportunity to
           address the meeting and inform the Council and
           the audience of any matters the Mayor desires to
           present which do not require action of the
           Council, such as community events, letters from
           members of the public, happenings within the
           City, etc.

     (d)   City Attorney. The City Attorney will have the
           opportunity to address the meeting and inform the
           Council of any matters which do not require
           action of the Council.

     (e)   City Council Members. Each Council Member
           likewise will have the opportunity to address the
           other members of the Council, the Mayor and the
           audience.

     (f)   Council Attorney. The Council Attorney will have
           the opportunity to address the meeting and inform
           the Council of any matters which do not require
           action of the Council.

     (g)   Information. Items may be placed on this portion
           of the agenda and presented by the Mayor, City
           Council Members, City staff, members of the
           public, etc. Items presented are for information
           only, but must be listed on the printed Agenda
           for the meeting. The Council will decide what
           further action, if any, it desires. Information
           items shall be limited to ten (10) minutes.
           Lengthier presentations shall be scheduled for a
           work meeting.

4.   Action Items. The Conducting Council Member will ask
     for a motion on any items listed under this section of
     the Agenda after discussion, as needed, has concluded.
(a)   Consent Agenda. As a courtesy, the Conducting
      Council Member should ask if there are any
      questions concerning the "Consent" items. The
      Conducting Council Member should identify and
      briefly explain the items on the Consent Agenda
      to all those present at the meeting. The Consent
      Agenda, generally, shall consist of matters which
      require no further discussion or which are
      routine in nature. Usually, all items on the
      Consent Agenda shall be adopted by a single
      motion, second and vote. However, prior to the
      motion to adopt the Consent Agenda, a Council
      Member may have an item removed from the Consent
      Agenda without a motion to Unfinished Council
      Business for further discussion. Items moved to
      the Unfinished Council Business agenda will be
      addressed in that section of the agenda ahead of
      agenda items listed for discussion.

      A motion, second, and vote will be called for the
      adoption of items remaining on the Consent
      Agenda.

(b)   Appointments by the Mayor. Individuals subject to
      Mayoral appointment shall initially be introduced
      to the Council by The Mayor, or a designee, in a
      work meeting. The Council shall be provided with
      the resume of any candidate who is subject to
      appointment prior to the work meeting in which
      the candidate is introduced. The Council may pose
      questions to the candidate or request further
      information from the administration at the work
      meeting. The conducting Council Member may elect
      to poll the Council members during the work
      meeting to determine whether there is Council
      support for a candidate’s appointment. The matter
      may then be referred to a future work meeting or
      regular meeting for further action by the
      Council. Advice and consent of the Council
      requires a majority vote.

(c)   Unfinished Council Business. The Unfinished
      Council Business section shall consist of those
      items which have received a first reading in a
      prior regular Council meeting or a work meeting.
      All items on Unfinished Council Business are
      subject to further discussion. After discussion,
      any Council Member may make a motion to vote,
           such motion to be seconded and a vote taken on
           these items.

           The purpose of the Unfinished Council Business
           portion of the agenda is to finish the items that
           appear thereon.

     (d)   New Council Business. The New Council Business
           section is defined as the introduction or first
           reading of items on the Council's agenda. New
           Council Business items shall have a Council
           Member, Mayor, staff, or presenter’s name listed
           next to each item as the sponsor of the item.
           Items are dealt with individually.

           Matters before the Council, which require
           decision of the Council, will first be presented
           to and discussed by the Council. No New Council
           Business item shall receive Council action
           unless, at the discretion of the Council
           Chairperson, the item is deemed an emergency, or
           if immediate action is desirable, and the Council
           chooses to vote on the item. (See Rule 17,
           Suspension of the Rules.) Any Council Member can
           request deferral of an item on the New Council
           Business section.

           After discussion, all New Council Business items
           not designated emergency shall be referred by a
           motion and a second to a work meeting or to a
           future Council agenda for further action.

5.   Public Hearings. A public hearing generally is a part
     of a regularly scheduled and noticed Council meeting.

     Public Hearings shall consist of those items for which
     the Council would like to receive public input. Such
     hearings shall include, but not be limited to, those
     requiring legal advertisement under state law.

     When a public hearing is held, a member of the City
     staff having knowledge about the issue will first
     present information on the issue and answer questions.
     Then, all parties interested in addressing the issue
     are invited to speak before any discussion is held by
     the Council and before motions are made. Each
     individual who speaks will state the individual’s name
     and city/town in which the individual resides before
     proceeding. Individuals who wish to speak during the
     Public Hearing portion of a meeting, including those
     who are unable to attend the meeting in person, must
     be civil and shall follow the same rules stated above
     relating to Public Comments. Any comment submitted
     that fails to comply with these rules shall not be
     allowed.

     After all individuals have spoken, the Conducting
     Council Member will close the public hearing. The City
     Council then proceeds with its discussion on the
     matter. When discussion by the Council is finished, a
     motion is made and seconded concerning the item. The
     Council will vote to (a) table action until a future
     specified meeting date, (b) take it to a work meeting
     for further discussion, or (c) take final action on
     the matter immediately after the hearing.

6.   Closed Meeting. In certain circumstances, the Council
     may take certain matters under discussion at a noticed
     meeting to a Closed Meeting with only the Council
     Members and City staff personnel essential to the
     meeting present. Such meeting may be held upon the
     affirmative vote of 2/3 of the Council Members present
     at such meeting. (U.C.A. Sec. 52-4-204(1)(a)(iii) as
     amended).

     Closed meetings may only be held for purposes deemed
     lawful under Utah State law, as provided in U.C.A. §
     52-4-205, as amended, which are:

     (a)   Discussion of the character, professional
           competence, or physical or mental health of an
           individual;

     (b)   Strategy sessions to discuss collective
           bargaining;

     (c)   Strategy sessions to discuss pending or
           reasonably imminent litigation;

     (d)   Strategy sessions to discuss the purchase,
           exchange or lease of real property, including any
           form of a water right or water shares, if public
           discussion of the transaction would disclose the
           appraisal or estimated value of the property
           under consideration, or prevent the public body
           from completing the transaction on the best
      possible terms;

(e)   Strategy sessions to discuss the sale of real
      property including any form of a water right or
      water shares, if:

      (1)   public discussion of the transaction would
            disclose the appraisal or estimated value of
            the property under consideration or prevent
            the public body from completing the
            transaction on the best possible terms;

      (2)   the public body previously gave public
            notice that the property would be offered
            for sale; and

      (3)   the terms of the sale are publicly disclosed
            before the public body approves the sale;

(f)   Discussion regarding deployment of security
      personnel, devices or systems; and

(g)   Investigative proceedings regarding allegations
      of criminal misconduct.

The reason for holding a Closed Meeting and the vote,
either for or against the proposition to hold such a
meeting, cast by each member by name, shall be entered
on the minutes of the meeting. No ordinance,
resolution, rule, regulation, contract, or appointment
shall be approved in a Closed Meeting.

Unless a meeting is closed to discuss the character,
professional competence, or physical or mental health
of an individual or to discuss the deployment of
security personnel, devices or systems, the City
Council shall record the closed portion of the meeting
and may keep detailed written minutes that disclose
the content of the closed portion of the meeting.
Recordings and written minutes of closed meetings are
protected records under the Utah Government Records
Access and Management Act (GRAMA) and unauthorized
disclosure triggers criminal penalties.

If the City Council closes a meeting exclusively to
discuss the character, professional competence, or
physical or mental health of an individual, or to
discuss the deployment of security personnel, devices
          or systems, the person presiding shall sign a sworn
          statement affirming that such was the sole purpose for
          closing the meeting.

          Actions challenging the legality of a closed meeting
          are governed by U.C.A. § 52-4-304.

    7.    Adjournment.

          When all items on the Council agenda have been
          disposed of, a motion to adjourn is made, seconded and
          voted upon. The presiding officer may state: "If there
          is no further business, we'll stand adjourned." The
          gavel is struck and the meeting is over.

Rule 8:   Motions

          1. Matters appearing on the Agenda can be discussed by
          the Council prior to a motion being made. After a
          matter has been discussed by the Council, the
          conducting Council Member will ask for a motion on the
          matter, and a second to the motion. A motion on the
          matter shall not be made prior to the conducting
          Council Member’s request for a motion on the matter.
          The conducting Council Member will (1) announce the
          author of the motion, (2) restate the motion, (3)
          announce who seconded the motion, (4) ask if there is
          a question on the motion, and (5) call for a vote on
          the motion.

          If further Council discussion is needed on a motion,
          the author of such motion is allowed to speak first.
          All other Council Members are allowed to address the
          issue after that. The author of the motion is also
          allowed to make a summation.

          The author of a motion may amend or withdraw that
          motion before it has been voted on.

          After a motion has been stated by the conducting
          Council Member, that motion belongs to the Council and
          it requires a majority vote to withdraw it. However,
          the author of a motion may withdraw it unless another
          Council Member objects.

          A motion is lost or rejected which fails to receive a
          "second."
     2.   A Council Member may make a motion to reconsider
     an item already voted on during the same or at the
     immediately preceding meeting if new information or a
     changed situation makes it appear that a different
     result might reflect the true will of the Council. A
     motion to reconsider must be made by a member present
     and voting on the prevailing side of the original
     motion and shall require the affirmative vote of a
     majority of the Council Members. Any action taken by
     the Council shall not be reconsidered at any special
     meeting unless the number of members of the Council
     present at the special meeting is equal to or greater
     than the number of members present at the meeting when
     the action was approved or disapproved.

     An item to be reconsidered shall appear on the
     unfinished business portion of the agenda and shall be
     identified as “Reconsideration of ... (the title of
     the matter previously voted upon).” Discussion of the
     substance of the matter to be reconsidered shall occur
     only after a motion to reconsider has been
     successfully approved by a majority of the Council
     present and voting.

3.   A motion to rescind may be used to strike out an
     entire motion, resolution, rule, bylaw, section, or
     paragraph that has been adopted at some previous time.
     A motion to rescind may be applied only to a motion on
     which the vote was affirmative.

4.   Other than the main motion, the most common motion
     used by the Council is a motion to amend. The intent
     of an amendment is to modify the original motion by
     inserting, adding to, striking out, and striking out
     and inserting language in the original motion. A
     motion to amend a main motion should relate to the
     same subject as the main motion. This ensures that the
     Council will vote on one matter at a time.

     A motion to amend should not have as its intent a
     reversal of the main motion. For example, if the main
     motion is to adopt an ordinance, it is not a proper
     motion to submit an amendment to "not" adopt the
     ordinance.

     Substitute motions are a type of amendment motion. The
     difference is the striking out of an entire paragraph
     or more from the motion or ordinance and substituting
     different language.

     Amendments to the main motion are discussed and voted
     on before the main motion. Only the amendment is
     discussed not the main motion. If the amendment fails,
     then discussion and voting on the main motion, as
     originally stated, follows. If the amended motion
     passes, the amended motion becomes the main motion.
     The Conducting Council Member will proceed with an
     amendment motion in the same manner as a main motion.

     In conducting a Council discussion on an amendment
     motion, the author of such motion is allowed to speak
     first. All other Council Members are allowed to
     address the issue after that. The author of the
     amendment motion is also allowed to make a summation.

     Any Council Member may move to amend any proposed
     ordinance or proposed resolution; provided, however,
     that no amendment shall change the original purpose.

     Any amendments to a proposed ordinance or proposed
     resolution recommended by a committee of the Council
     shall be made to the appropriate document prior to its
     appearing on the Consent Agenda. Such amendment will
     be noted in the Council minutes.

5.   The Council may move to table a motion. The purpose of
     tabling a motion is to delay action until later in the
     same meeting. When a matter is tabled, it takes all
     subsidiary motions with it (e.g., amendments) to the
     table. A matter should be tabled no longer than
     necessary.

     The Council may move to continue a motion. The purpose
     of continuing a motion is to delay action until a
     future date. A continued motion is preferably
     scheduled for discussion at the next available regular
     or work meeting of the Council so that action can be
     taken as soon as possible.

6.   The following procedural motions shall require the
     affirmative vote of a majority of the Council Members
     present:

     (a)   To adjourn;

     (b)   To recess;
          (c)   To take up a question out of its proper order;

          (d)   To move the previous question;

          (e)   To postpone to a day certain;

          (f)   To refer to a committee (commit or recommit);

          (g)   To limit discussion;

          (h)   To lay on the table (temporary only); and

          (i)   To amend.

          Such motions shall take precedence in the order moved.

Rule 9:   Voting

          Voting shall be in the form of "yes", "no" and
          "abstain," and the names of those voting for, against,
          or abstaining entered in the Council minutes.

          The Council usually takes voice votes on
          noncontroversial items. A voice vote is when all
          Council Members say "yes" or "no" at the same time.

          A roll call vote is usually taken on controversial
          items. A roll call vote is required on the following
          matters:

          (a)   An ordinance;

          (b)   A resolution;

          (c)   Any action creating a liability against the City;
                and

          (d)   All budget and financial items.

          Any Council Member may request a roll call vote on any
          matter being voted on by the Council.

          Any Council Member can change his or her vote before
          the results of the vote are announced.

          At the conclusion of the vote on a matter, a Council
          Member may state a point of personal privilege and
           give an explanation of his or her vote, as provided in
           Rule 14.

           Any Council Member can abstain from a vote. An
           abstention is not counted as a "yes" or "no" vote. A
           Council Member abstaining from voting should, as a
           common courtesy, state a point of personal privilege
           and give an explanation of such abstention.

           In the event of a tie vote, the motion fails.
           The minimum number of yes votes required to pass any
           ordinance or resolution, or to take any action by the
           council, unless otherwise prescribed by law, is four
           (UCA §10-3-507).

           Every Council Member who is in the Council Chambers
           when a question is stated from the Conducting Council
           Member shall vote. No Council Member absent from the
           Council Chambers when a question is stated by the
           Conducting Council Member shall be obliged to vote. A
           Council Member who is participating in a meeting
           electronically shall be considered to be within the
           Council Chambers as long as the Council Member is able
           to hear and audibly respond by electronic means when
           the question is stated.

           Any Council Member entering the Chambers after the
           question is stated, but before it is decided, may have
           the question stated, cast his or her vote and be
           counted.

           Unless another effective date is provided in the
           ordinance, all ordinances are effective twenty (20)
           days after publication by the City Recorder or thirty
           (30) days after final passage, whichever is closer to
           the date of final passage.

Rule 10:   Discussion

           The Conducting Council Member shall recognize any
           Council Member requesting recognition to speak,
           discuss, give a notice, make a motion, submit a
           report, or for any reason address the Council, unless
           a motion taking precedence is offered.

           All Council Members shall be allowed to speak at least
           once on any subject.
           During discussion, the Conducting Council Member shall
           be responsible for maintaining order. If, in the
           opinion of the Conducting Council Member, private
           discourse among or between Council Members or any
           other disturbance disrupts the Council's business, the
           Conducting Council Member may call the Council to
           order. If the Conducting Council Member calls the
           Council to order, all Council business shall cease
           until such time as the Conducting Council Member
           resumes the Council's business.

           Any Council Member may make a motion that the Council
           be called to order.

           The following questions will be decided without
           discussion:

           (a)   To adjourn;

           (b)   To recess; and

           (c)   Questions relating to order of business.


Rule 11:   Conflict of Interest

           Council Members are required by the Utah Municipal
           Officers’ and Employees’ Ethics Act (Utah Code Ann.
           10-3-1301 et seq. the “Ethics Act”) to disclose actual
           or potential conflicts of interest between their
           public duties and their personal interests. Under most
           conflict of interest situations, Council Members
           should abstain from voting on a matter if they have a
           substantial interest in the item before the Council,
           and to avoid participating in the discussion as well.
           “Substantial interest” means the ownership, either
           legally or equitably, by an individual, the
           individual’s spouse, or the individual’s minor
           children, of at least 10% of the outstanding shares of
           a corporation or 10% interest in any other business
           entity (UCA 10-3-1303(9)). See the Ethics Act for
           additional direction on conflicts of interest.

Rule 12:   Decorum

           Conduct of Members of the Council. Members of the
           Council shall avoid personal attacks and restrict
           comments to issues before the body. Violations of
           Decorum or Conduct of Council Members shall be
           resolved by the Council Chair.

           Council Members should avoid engaging in private
           discourse or committing any other act which may tend
           to distract the attention of the Council or the
           audience from business before the Council, or which
           might interfere with any person's right to be heard
           after recognition by the Conducting Council Member.

           Conduct of Attendees at Council Meeting. Those in
           attendance are admonished to avoid personal attacks,
           demonstrations, or outbursts without being recognized.
           Individuals shall address their remarks directly to
           the Council as a body concerning the agenda business.

           When speaking about or discussing matters before the
           Council, all individuals, including Council Members,
           shall confine any remarks to the question under
           discussion. Anyone engaging in discussion beyond the
           question before the Council shall be ordered to stop
           by the Conducting Council Member and no further
           discussion will be allowed by said person.

           Individuals engaged in disruptive behavior shall be
           removed by the Sergeant-at-Arms at the direction of
           the Council Chair or Conducting Council Member.

Rule 13:   Sergeant-At-Arms

           Upon request of the Council, a Sergeant-at-Arms will
           be assigned to a meeting.

           The duty of the Sergeant-At-Arms shall be to assist
           the Conducting Council Member in preserving order and
           decorum in City Council meetings.

           In the case of any disturbance or disorderly conduct
           within the Chambers or at a Council meeting, the
           Conducting Council Member may request the Sergeant-At-
           Arms to escort the offender(s) from the Council
           meeting.

Rule 14:   Personal Privilege - Protest

           Any Council Member shall have the right to protest any
           action of the Council, stating the reasons, and having
           the same entered in the minutes, provided such reasons
           do not impugn the motives or character of any person.
           A point of personal privilege shall be limited to five
           (5) minutes in length. Any additional objections may
           be submitted to the City Recorder in writing within
           forty-eight (48) hours of adjournment and will be
           attached to the meeting minutes.

Rule 15:   Committees: Special, Ad Hoc, Joint Committee at
           Request of the Mayor, Oversight

           The City Council may, from time to time, create,
           revise, or abolish any and all Council committees, or
           make any changes to the committee structure.

           The City Council may create any special or ad hoc
           committee for any specific purpose proper for Council
           consideration. When such committee is created, its
           purpose and a relevant time frame will be established.
           After the final report of the committee, the special
           or ad hoc committee of the Council will be abolished.

           The City Council may or may not elect to formally
           participate, either by its own membership or its
           designees, in a committee being established by the
           Mayor.

           Any standing committee, or the Council as a whole, may
           resolve to sit as an oversight committee for the
           purpose of investigating items relating to the conduct
           of City business. However, no powers are accorded the
           committee other than those provided by state law.

           All meetings of Council committees, standing, ad hoc,
           oversight, shall provide notice in conformance with
           the Utah Open and Public Meetings Act.

Rule 16:   Suspension of the Rules

           If a person presenting a matter to the Council informs
           the Council Members, by information delivered in
           Council packets prior to a regular Council meeting,
           why a matter must be acted upon/voted on at its first
           reading, Council Members may suspend their rules and
           vote on it. If the Council Members do not vote to
           suspend the rules on such matter, it will go to
           Unfinished Business or to the Consent Agenda for the
           next regular Council meeting.
           No rule shall be suspended except by majority vote of
           the Council Members.

Rule 17:   Amendment, Revision or Addition to Rules

           Any Council Member may propose amendments, revisions,
           or additions to these Rules of Procedure.

           Each amendment, revision, or addition proposed by a
           Council Member shall be in written form, and copies
           shall be provided to each Council Member.

           Consideration of any amendments, revisions, or
           additions to these Rules of Procedure shall be noticed
           on a Council agenda in conformance with the Utah Open
           and Public Meetings Act.

           A majority vote of all Council Members shall be
           required for passage and adoption of an amendment,
           revision, or addition to these Rules of Procedure.

           Each Council Member shall have a copy of the latest
           edition of the Rules of Procedure.

           A copy of the Rules of Procedure will be made
           available to all department heads of the City, any
           member of the City staff, any member of the public or
           other person who requests the same.

Rule 18:   Time Frame for Delivery of Information Packets to
           Council Members

           For each regular Council meeting, work meeting, Closed
           Meeting, special meeting, public hearing and other
           Council meetings, Council Members will receive a
           packet, which may be in digital form, containing the
           agenda of such meeting(s) and complete information
           pertaining to items on the agenda(s). To allow the
           Council Members adequate time to study the items for
           consideration at the upcoming meeting(s), all
           information for agendas and packets will ideally be
           delivered to the City Recorder by 5:00 p.m. on the
           Friday preceding the meeting(s). Notwithstanding the
           foregoing, a resolution or ordinance shall not be
           considered by the Council unless such has been
           properly noticed in accordance with the law and
           approved as to legal form by the City Attorney. All
           email communication between any member of the City
           Council and the Mayor, or City staff, shall be
           conducted through City issued email.

Rule 19:   Computers, Cell Phones and Tablets for Council Members

           The City may acquire and maintain for the Council
           Members computers, tablets, cell phones, etc., at a
           level to allow Council Members to access all pertinent
           City information, such as e-mail, City Code, web sites
           and network. The City may also furnish to Council
           Members all supplies customarily used to operate such
           equipment. Council Members have discretion to allow
           others in their household to use the computer
           equipment in a manner that will not cause harm or
           damage to the equipment.

           When maintenance or service is required for assigned
           equipment, the Council Members will bring such
           equipment to the City’s IT Division Manager at City
           Hall.

           The cost allotted for equipment, including maintenance
           and service, will be addressed and decided by the
           Council Members each year during budget sessions. The
           amount decided upon will be included as a line item in
           the City Council portion of the General Fund.

Rule 20:   Serious Moment of Reflection

    1.     Each City Council Meeting will begin with a serious
           moment of reflection comprised of a prayer, other
           supplication, moment of silence, inspirational
           thought, an inspirational reading, etc. The serious
           moment of reflection will be led either by the member
           of the City Council assigned or by a volunteer
           community member.

    2.     Upon timely request, the serious moment of reflection
           may be conducted by any person having a significant
           connection to the South Salt Lake Community, including
           residents, city business leaders, city educational
           leaders, city religious leaders, city civic leaders,
           etc. Pursuant to Rule 19, the request must be
           delivered to the City Recorder no later than 8:00 a.m.
           on the Friday preceding the City Council Meeting for
           placement on the agenda. The request shall contain the
           following information to be printed on the agenda:
     (a)   The name and address of the individual
           requesting to present the serious moment of
           reflection;

     (b)   The person’s connection to the South Salt
           Lake community; and

     (c)   The general nature of the presentation, i.e.,
           prayer, supplication, inspirational thought,
           moment of silence, or will specify if other than
           these types.

3.   Upon receiving the request, if no other person has
     made an earlier request, the person will be placed on
     the agenda to present the serious moment of reflection
     at the next scheduled City Council Meeting. If
     multiple requests are made, each person making a
     request shall be scheduled to present at an upcoming
     Council Meeting according to the order in which the
     request is made.

4.   Each person who files a request with the City Recorder
     will be given a copy of the guidelines for presenting
     the serious moment of reflection.

5.   The person providing the serious moment of reflection
     shall adhere to the following:

     (a)   The presentation may not exceed three minutes;

     (b)   The presenter must be in attendance and prepared
           to proceed on time;

     (c)   A community member may only present once in a
           six-month period of time;

     (d)   The presenter must abide by the City Council’s
           rules of decorum as set forth in Rule 12;

     (e)   The purpose of the serious moment of reflection
           is to set the tone for the proceedings of the
           City Council. It may consist of a prayer,
           supplication, inspirational thought,
           inspirational reading, a moment of silence or
           other appropriate activity.

     (f)   It should promote thoughtful attention to public
           duty and high moral and ethical standards.
     (g)   It should promote peace, unity, and tolerance in
           the community.

     (h)   It is not a time to disparage the beliefs of
           others or to promote one’s own beliefs or point
           of view.

     (i)   It should not degrade any person because of
           religion, race, ethnic background national
           origin, sex, or philosophy.

     (j)   It should not be crude, vulgar, or offensive to
           the public sense of decency.

     (k)   It is not a time to demean or insult local
           leaders.

     (l)   If it is the person’s intent to argue, complain,
           criticize, etc., the Public Comments portion of
           each City Council Meeting is the time to do so,
           not the serious moment of reflection.

7.   To provide equal access to participate, the
     opportunity to present the serious moment of
     reflection at City Council Meeting will be advertised
     to the community by the following methods:

     (a)   An invitation to the public to participate
           will be permanently posted outside the City
           Council Chambers at City Hall and posted on the
           City’s website.

     (b)   The invitation will be substantially in the
           following form:

                The South Salt Lake City Council invites all
                South Salt Lake City residents, business
                representatives, education leaders, civic
                leaders, religious leaders, or any other
                person with a significant connection to the
                City of South Salt Lake to participate at an
                upcoming City Council Meeting by presenting
                a serious moment of reflection at the
                commencement of the meeting. Persons
                interested in volunteering for this public
                service should contact the City Recorder at
                (phone number or email) for more details no
                     later than 8:00 a.m. on the Friday preceding
                     a scheduled City Council Meeting.

    8.     If an interested community member fails to timely
           volunteer or, having volunteered, fails to timely
           appear, the member of the City Council assigned to
           conduct the meeting shall present the serious moment
           of reflection.

Rule 21:   Confidential Documents

    1.     Any document provided to the City Council in
           connection with a public meeting that is restricted by
           state or federal law from public disclosure will be
           stamped on the front page with a mark that clearly
           advises of the document’s private, confidential, or
           protected classification.

    2.     Documents dealing with issues of the character or
           reputation of an individual, financial details of real
           estate transactions, security measures, trade secrets,
           or any other non-public record will be stamped on the
           front page with a mark that clearly advises of the
           document’s private, confidential, or protected
           classification and shall only be distributed to
           Council members by the City Recorder in a closed
           meeting. Any such document distributed shall be
           returned to the City Recorder prior to adjournment of
           the closed meeting.

Rule 22: Council Staff

    1.     Any member of the City Council may, individually or
           jointly with another member, contact staff employed by
           the Council to initiate legislation, ask questions,
           seek opinions, request the drafting of documents
           reports and audits, prepare items for discussion at
           Council meetings, make assignments, and to do all
           other things necessary for the business of the
           Council.