CITY OF SOUTH SALT LAKE
                                 CITY COUNCIL MEETING

COUNCIL MEETING                                            Wednesday January 24, 2024
                                                           7:01 p.m.

CITY OFFICES                                               220 East Morris Avenue
                                                           South Salt Lake, Utah 84115

PRESIDING:                                                 Council Chair Sharla Bynum

CONDUCTING:                                                LeAnne Huff

SERIOUS MOMENT OF REFLECTION/
PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE :                                     Clarissa Williams

SERGEANT AT ARMS:                                          Carson Aprato

COUNCIL MEMBERS PRESENT:
      LeAnne Huff, Corey Thomas, Sharla Bynum, Nick Mitchell,
      Paul Sanchez, Clarissa Williams, and Natalie Pinkney

COUNCIL MEMBERS EXCUSED:
      None

STAFF PRESENT:
       Mayor Wood
       Josh Collins, City Attorney
       Danielle Croyle, Police Chief
       Terry Addison, Fire Chief
       Crystal Makin, Finance Director
       Jonathan Weidenhamer, Community & Economic Development Director
       Eliza Ungricht, Deputy Community Development Director
       Ariel Andrus, City Recorder
       Sara Ramirez, Deputy City Recorder
       Carson Aprato, Police Officer
       Natalie Molino, Paralegal
       Mayra Serna, Legal Assistant
       Jessica Potter, Executive Assistant
       Ryan Cram, Police Lieutenant
       Ryan Alvarez, Police Officer
       Jeremiah Drum, Police Officer
       Edward Lopez, Promise Deputy Director
       Corby Talbot, Stormwater Division Manager
       Jen Hill, Public Outreach Coordinator
       Joseph Dane, Public Outreach Coordinator
       Jared Christensen, Deputy Fire Chief

OTHERS PRESENT:
      See list
                                            1
South Salt Lake - Regular Council Meeting                                           January 24, 2024


APPROVAL OF MINUTES
      January 10th, Work Meeting
      January 10th, Regular Meeting

Council Member Bynum made a motion to approve the minutes listed above.

MOTION: Sharla Bynum
SECOND: Clarissa Williams

Voice Vote:
Bynum:            Yes
Huff:             Yes
Mitchell:         Yes
Pinkney:          Yes
Thomas:           Yes
Williams:         Yes
Sanchez:          Yes

NO ACTION COMMENTS

       1. SCHEDULING. The City Recorder informed those at the meeting of upcoming events,
          meetings, activities, etc. Next Mtg—February 7th @ 7pm.

       2. CITIZEN COMMENTS/QUESTIONS.
          South Salt Lake resident, Susan Bowlden, shared her thoughts on the ‘Serious
          Moment of Reflection’ and the ability for residents to share comments over Zoom.
          She also clarified a comment she made at the last meeting regarding a missing item
          from an agenda and said that she had been looking at the wrong one.

              South Salt Lake resident, Lynn Fuller, shared his thoughts on comments made by
              Council Member Sanchez at the last meeting regarding claims he made about the
              new Police Chief’s appointment. He said that he would like the Council to remain
              focused on reviewing and passing budgets and other important City matters.

              Christensen & Jensen President and attorney, Karra Porter, informed the Council of
              recent events involving Council Member Sanchez that led to her being hired to
              represent Salt Lake local business, Club Verse, and issue a cease-and desist letter to
              him. She felt that it was her professional duty to inform the Council that she in no
              way was considering being hired by Mr. Sanchez to represent him, even though
              recent communication in his email to the Utah Labor Commission indicated his
              hopes of retaining her firm as legal counsel for him as a civil servant. She stated that
              it would be a conflict of interest and wanted that to be on public record. She also
              expressed her wish for Mr. Sanchez to discontinue sending emails regarding the civil
              dispute that involve her private client from his City issued email address.

              South Salt Lake resident, Conrad Campos, thanked the Council Members and those
              who ran a campaign this last election season and acknowledged his opponent,
              Council Member Pinkney, by congratulating her in her success. He then expressed
                                                   2
South Salt Lake - Regular Council Meeting                                       January 24, 2024


           his concern with recent actions in the Council and the implications of using an
           elected or appointed position to further one’s financial goals or business and using it
           as a platform to justify actions. He said that he was concerned that the City might be
           held financially liable should any civil lawsuit come from such actions and involve
           taxpayer dollars should any judgment be issued against the City for an elected
           official’s misuse of their power. He said that he would like all of this to end and
           would like personal issues to remain personal. He urged the Council to strongly
           consider remedial training or disciplinary action. He then asked Council Member
           Sanchez to resign in lieu of his recent announcement of running for President of the
           United States so that he could focus solely on that and let the City be wholly
           represented in a proper fashion.

           South Salt Lake resident and South Salt Lake Honorary Colonel, Orrin Colby Jr,
           wanted to state his commitment to the City and his pride in the City’s Police
           Department and their work. He also expressed his thanks to Chief Carruth’s many
           years of service.

           AT&T Business Mobility Executive, Steven Mecham, shared how he both works and
           recreates in South Salt Lake. He said that he has been saddened by the ongoing
           events throughout the last month but believes that the City will rise above it and
           will continue to be a City on the move.

           South Salt Lake resident, Jeff Kane, said that he appreciates the turnout that has
           been generated from the events of recent meetings. He then spoke about the City’s
           current work on an Ordinance to address and create standards and regulations for
           ADU’s (Accessory Dwelling Units) and had some questions that were later addressed
           by Council Chair Bynum in the Unfinished Business, Item 1. He then thanked the
           Council for recent developments such as In-N-Out and for the work they did to
           address potential traffic congestion.

       3. MAYOR COMMENTS.
          Mayor Wood highlighted the following City events/programs deadlines:

           The Celebrate South Salt Lake Mini Grant program continues to be a shining
           example of how the City invests in the community’s art and culture to create a more
           vibrant City. In 2023 there were five free community events that were sponsored by
           the South Salt Lake Arts Council and Rocky Mountain Power which brought people
           from all walks of life to celebrate the City’s diversity. Applications for 2024 are now
           being accepted through February 23rd and chosen applications will be announced on
           March 4th. More information can be found on www.sslarts.org

           She then presented a plaque to recognize former District 4 Council Member Portia
           Mila and thank her for her eight years of dedicated service to the City’s residents on
           the City Council.

       4. CITY ATTORNEY COMMENTS.
          None.


                                               3
South Salt Lake - Regular Council Meeting                                       January 24, 2024


       5. CITY COUNCIL COMMENTS.
          Council Member Sanchez created a statement via video recording for his personal
          social media page. He then addressed attorney Karra Porter’s statement made
          earlier and read the statement published on social media by her client, Club Verse.

           Council Member Pinkney talked about membership available through the South Salt
           Lake Co-Op Center. She will be participating in an accounting, finance, and investing
           class through a partnership with Westminster University. She talked about the
           amenities and resources that are available for residents and business owners
           through the Co-Op and the Community Center. She also talked about the dynamics
           within the City government and the need for transparency and accountability at all
           levels.

           Council Member Bynum addressed the learning curve for new Council Members and
           how the City provides annual training as required per State Code. She noted the
           importance of getting back to City business and doing so in a productive manner.

           Council Member Thomas thanked everyone for their attendance and said that she
           appreciated it as a Council Member.

           Council Member Mitchell spoke about his abstention from voting at the last meeting
           regarding the appointment Danielle Croyle as the new Police Chief for the reasons
           he had stated at the time. Since then, he was able to meet with Danielle Croyle and
           feels fully confident in her leadership and ability. He encouraged those on the
           Council who have any concerns to share them at the meetings. He said that he
           believes that it’s time to move forward and for everyone to conduct themselves
           with the decorum that is needed.

           Council Member Williams shared how she appreciates everyone who has come and
           shared their thoughts and concerns on various matters. Simultaneously, she also
           believes that it’s important to focus on the positive work that the City accomplishes.
           She spoke about how the City’s Police Department recently attended an ‘Autism
           Awareness’ training and the value it’ll bring to many residents who have loved ones
           that have autism. She also highlighted the Police Department’s ‘Bowl With A Cop’
           program where they get to spend time with and provide mentorship to the
           community’s school-aged children. She noted how easy it is for so many good things
           that have already been in place for a long time to be overlooked. She also took time
           to address Chief Carruth’s retirement and talked about how he has always
           interacted with people in the community. She encouraged everyone to remember
           all of the great things he did and the way he became a respected leader over his 29
           years of service to the City.

           Conducting Member Huff thanked everyone who came to share their comments.
           She hopes that they can focus on City work moving forward and be civil towards one
           another.




                                               4
South Salt Lake - Regular Council Meeting                                      January 24, 2024


       6. INFORMATION.

               a. Finance Department Overview
                  Finance Director, Crystal Makin, talked about the Finance Department and
                  the work it does for the City in various aspects. From internal accounting
                  controls, to safeguarding the City’s assets, they provide support to all City
                  departments. The three divisions with the department are:

                         a. General Ledger and Controls
                         b. Utility Billing
                         c. Accounts Payable/Payroll

                   As the Finance Director, Ms. Makin oversees and directs all fiscal
                   management, oversees internal control policies and procedures, prepares
                   the annual budget, manages the City’s investments, oversees the annual
                   audit, and ensures compliance with Federal, State, and local laws, codes,
                   and regulations.

                   Due to the time constraint for an Information Item, the explanation of the
                   Budget Process will be moved to a future Work Meeting.

                   A copy of the PowerPoint presentation is attached and incorporated by this
                   reference.

               b. SLC New Decorum Rules
                  Salt Lake City Councilmember, Alejandro Puy, reviewed the recent updates
                  they made to their Code of Conduct that sets expectations for Council
                  Members in how they represent the City and their community. Additionally,
                  it establishes expectations for participation and attentiveness during public
                  meetings as well as highlighting the importance of attendance to scheduled
                  meetings. It also comes with a clause that addresses compliance and
                  enforcement should things get to a point where a Council Member is
                  violating the Code of Conduct and provides a layout of protocol and steps
                  that the Council can take to either address issues or, if needed, consider
                  sanctions.

                   A copy of Salt Lake City’s Resolution as a sample and their recently updated
                   City Council Code of Conduct is attached and incorporated by this reference.


ACTION ITEMS

   Unfinished Business

   1. An Ordinance of the South Salt Lake City Council Amending South Salt Lake City
      Municipal Code Title 17 To Update Definitions, Correct Technical Errors, and Update
      Regulations Related to Accessory Dwelling Units, Including Permitted Use Standards
      and Design Standards.
                                               5
South Salt Lake - Regular Council Meeting                                           January 24, 2024


        Deputy Community Development Director, Eliza Ungricht, and Community and
        Economic Development Director, Jonathan Weidenhamer, informed the Council that
        they are asking the Council to move this item to a future meeting and for no action to be
        taken tonight per some pending work.

        The Ordinance would allow one external and one internal ADU per property. The
        proposed guidelines would allow external ADU’s in the R1 and RM Zones pending that
        they meet the standards in place that are outlined in the Ordinance. Per Utah Code
        internal ADU’s are currently permitted but the Ordinance would put in additional
        measures such as design standards, parking stall requirements, and business license
        requirements, all of which the State allows for a City to put into place. There are also
        technical and grammatical clean ups to Title 17 as well as some additions and updates to
        definitions.

        This item was discussed at a prior meeting and then went to the Planning Commission
        on January 18th for a Public Hearing that resulted in a majority vote (5-2) of positive
        recommendation to the Council. The two commissioners that voted against it believe
        that the number of ADU’s should be kept to one per property.

        The current Municipal Code requires all properties to be legally platted for a building
        permit to be issued. A lot of the City’s properties that have been annexed from the
        County over the years are not part of the legal subdivision plat, but staff feels that a plat
        isn’t necessary if the following items are met:

            a. Right of Way Dedication that meets the standards within the Code
            b. All infrastructure is in place such as curbs, gutters, park strip, sidewalks, etc.
            c. All utilities on the property are located in an easement

        If not met, staff recommends for them to go through the platting process so that they
        can get the proper right of way dedication, easements, utility coverage via easement,
        and proper infrastructure in place that the City requires.

        A copy of the PowerPoint presentation is attached and incorporated by this reference.

        Council Member Bynum made a motion to move this as Unfinished Business to a future
        meeting.


MOTION: Sharla Bynum
SECOND: Natalie Pinkney

Roll Call Vote:
Bynum:            Yes
Huff:             Yes
Mitchell:         Yes
Pinkney:          Yes
Thomas:           Yes
Williams:         Yes
                                                 6
South Salt Lake - Regular Council Meeting                            January 24, 2024


Sanchez:       Yes


       Council Member Pinkney made a motion to Adjourn.


MOTION: Natalie Pinkney
SECOND: Sharla Bynum

Voice Vote:
Bynum:         Yes
Huff:          Yes
Mitchell:      Yes
Pinkney:       Yes
Thomas:        Yes
Williams:      Yes
Sanchez        Yes




       The meeting adjourned at 8:34 p.m.




                                            _____________________________
                                            Sharla Bynum, Council Chair




_____________________________
Ariel Andrus, City Recorder




                                            7