CITY OF SOUTH SALT LAKE
                                 CITY COUNCIL MEETING

COUNCIL MEETING                                            Wednesday February 28, 2024
                                                           7:00 p.m.

CITY OFFICES                                               220 East Morris Avenue
                                                           South Salt Lake, Utah 84115

PRESIDING:                                                 Council Chair Sharla Bynum

CONDUCTING:                                                Corey Thomas, District 2

SERIOUS MOMENT OF REFLECTION/
PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE :                                     Sharla Bynum

SERGEANT AT ARMS:                                          Carson Aprato

COUNCIL MEMBERS PRESENT:
      LeAnne Huff, Corey Thomas, Sharla Bynum, Nick Mitchell,
      Paul Sanchez, Clarissa Williams, and Natalie Pinkney

COUNCIL MEMBERS EXCUSED:
      None

STAFF PRESENT:
       Mayor Wood
       Josh Collins, City Attorney
       Danielle Croyle, Police Chief
       Terry Addison, Fire Chief
       Crystal Makin, Finance Director
       Jonathan Weidenhamer, Community & Economic Development Director
       Sharen Hauri, Neighborhoods Director
       Kelli Meranda, Promise Director
       Mary Winters, Police Sergeant
       Ariel Andrus, City Recorder
       Sara Ramirez, Deputy City Recorder
       Ryan Alvarez, Police Officer
       Jessica Potter, Executive Assistant
       Jared Christiansen, Deputy Fire Chief
       Natalie Molino, Paralegal
       Mayra Serna, Legal Assistant
       Jen Hill, Public Outreach Coordinator
       Spencer Redden, Police Officer
       Carson Aprato, Police Officer
       Cody Coggle, Police Sergeant

OTHERS PRESENT:
      See list


                                            1
South Salt Lake – Regular Council Meeting                                           February 28, 2024


APPROVAL OF MINUTES
      February 7th, Work Meeting
      February 7th, Regular Meeting
      February 21st, Special Meeting

Council Member Williams made a motion to approve the minutes listed above.

MOTION: Clarissa Williams
SECOND: LeAnne Huff

Voice Vote:
Bynum:            Yes
Huff:             Yes
Mitchell:         Yes
Pinkney:          Yes
Thomas:           Yes
Williams:         Yes
Sanchez:          Yes


NO ACTION COMMENTS

       1. SCHEDULING. The City Recorder informed those at the meeting of upcoming events,
          meetings, activities, etc. Next Mtg—March 13th @ 7pm.

       2. CITIZEN COMMENTS/QUESTIONS.
          South Salt Lake resident, Susan Bowlden, talked about the upcoming caucus
          meetings on Tuesday, March 5th, and the importance of increasing voter
          participation in the City.

              Granite Library Branch Manager, Kim Welch, gave some updates on events coming
              up at the County library. They recently started a partnership with ‘Mentes Activas’
              that is a Spanish speaking support group for people with dementia or Alzheimer’s
              and their care providers. They offer crafts, art therapy, gentle exercise, and
              neurobics. They currently meet twice a month and will be looking to offer it weekly
              starting in April. They also will be starting a regular ‘All-Abilities-Hour’ where people
              of all ages can come and socialize, do ability appropriate crafts, and spend time with
              others. The library will host another Comic Jam on Saturday, March 2nd where local
              artist, Brandon Paul, will work with teenagers and put a comic book together.

       3. MAYOR COMMENTS.
          Mayor Wood talked about ‘The Road to 100%’ initiative that South Salt Lake is
          partnering in with Millcreek City, Granite School District, United Way of Salt Lake,
          Promise Partnership Utah, and the Philanthropic and Business Community. They
          met on Thursday, February 22nd and made a commitment to ensure 100%
          graduation at Cottonwood High. The principals from the feeder schools for
          Cottonwood High were there and committed to the work as well. They will have
          more information to share with the Council as the project moves forward.
                                                   2
South Salt Lake – Regular Council Meeting                                     February 28, 2024


           Mayor Wood highlighted the City’s annual Mural Fest on May 4th from 4-8 p.m. with
           an expected 14 murals. They have artists coming from the U.S., Senegal, Mexico,
           and Canada. The murals will mostly focus on the S-Line that celebrated its 10th
           anniversary in December.

           She then gave some updates from the legislative session. The City was made aware
           on Monday, February 26th that the Executive Appropriations Committee did not
           fund the 2.5-million-dollar state match to the mitigation funding that’s valuable to
           the work that the City does in South Salt Lake’s community. A group of shelter-city
           mayors were at the Capitol on Tuesday, February 27th and were able to secure the
           2.5 million dollars for this year and got them to commit to ongoing funding. The
           group emphasized how there are many gaps in the continuum of care for
           homelessness but asked the committee to not punish the communities and cities
           that are stepping up and are trying to be a part of the solution.

       4. CITY ATTORNEY COMMENTS.
          None.

       5. CITY COUNCIL COMMENTS.
          Council Member Sanchez made a statement about human rights as it relates to
          global current events, minority business owners facing challenges, and addressed
          the Resolution for the Council Code of Conduct that he believes is aimed at
          censoring free speech. He talked about past allegations involving members of the
          Police Department and some City officials and that he has contacted the Attorney
          General’s office to initiate an investigation and then asked the Council Members to
          not pass anything that would prohibit them from engaging in discussions.

           Council Member Bynum addressed Council Member Sanchez’s Resolution request
           that was denied. When it was brought to the Council’s attention there was no
           majority support. She said that their consensus was to focus on City related business
           and providing accurate information about matters like the how the business license
           fee process works. Regarding the pending Resolution for the Council Code of
           Conduct she believes that all of the Council Members want to freely debate and
           discuss matters but want to do so free of threats, harassment, and to feel safe.

           Council Member Huff echoed Council Member Bynum’s statement about wanting to
           feel safe and not threatened as they discuss and do City business.

           Council Member Williams thanked Granite Branch manager, Kim Welch, for coming
           to provide community event information and encouraged people to sign up for the
           information newsletter from County libraries. She praised the ‘Road to 100’
           initiative and encouraged people who work in a STEM related field to come and
           volunteer their time at any of the Promise after school program locations.




                                              3
South Salt Lake – Regular Council Meeting                                      February 28, 2024


       6. INFORMATION.

               a. Civilian Review Board Annual Report
                  Civilian Review Board Chair, Joy Glad, gave the highlights for police cases
                  reviewed by the Board in 2023. There was a total of 12 Regular Meetings, 1
                  Special Meeting. Through those meetings the Board was able to review 194
                  cases total. 149 of those cases required watching footage from a body worn
                  or dashboard camera, and 45 cases only required review from the written
                  narrative’s provided by officers. There were 22 cases that required
                  significant or further discussion by the Board. Ultimately, the Board found
                  zero cases determined to be out of State Statute or City Policy. Ms. Glad
                  said that there was a total of 45,000 South Salt Lake police interactions that
                  occurred in 2023, of which .004% required the use of force. She then talked
                  about some events that the Board is planning to coordinate or be a part of
                  in order to increase visibility within the community this year.

                      A copy of the PowerPoint presentation is attached and incorporated by this
                      reference.

Action Items

Appointments by the Mayor

   1. Zana Jokic – Civilian Review Board Alternate Member
      Mayor Wood informed the Council that the appointee was unable to make it due to an
      illness. The matter will be moved to the next Work and Regular meetings.

       A copy of the appointee’s resume is attached and incorporated by this reference.


Unfinished Business

   1. Council Code of Conduct
      There was no further discussion on the matter per the discussion that was had on the
      matter in the preceding Work Meeting.

       Council Member Bynum made a motion to approve the Resolution.

       A copy of the Resolution with the Rules of Procedure and Code of Conduct are attached
       and incorporated by this reference.

MOTION: Sharla Bynum
SECOND: Clarissa Williams

Roll Call Vote:
Bynum:          Yes
Huff:           Yes
Mitchell:       Yes
                                                4
South Salt Lake – Regular Council Meeting                                        February 28, 2024


Pinkney:          Yes
Thomas:           Yes
Williams:         Yes
Sanchez:          No

        Council Member Sanchez made a point of privilege and talked about his concerns
        regarding corruption, transparency, censorship, amongst his belief that this Resolution is
        meant to silence his voice. He then called for the resignation of Mayor Wood and called
        for a guardian to be appointed by the Attorney General’s office.

        Council Chair Bynum made a point of privilege and talked about how they stood united
        a couple of weeks ago to publicly declare that it’s not okay for elected officials to say or
        do things that are threatening, a harm to others, and makes others feel unsafe. What
        the Council did at this meeting is to ensure that transparent conversations can be had in
        a manner where they are not being threatened or facing personal risks or attacks to
        their livelihood.

        Council and Conducting Member Thomas then reminded everyone to sign the ‘Model of
        Excellence Member Statement’ and turn it in to the City Recorder before they left the
        meeting.


Public Hearing – 7:30 (Or As Soon Thereafter As Possible)
To receive public input regarding proposed amendments to all 2023/2024 fund budgets.

Finance Director, Crystal Makin, reviewed about the proposed budget amendments that were
discussed at the preceding Work Meeting.

The public hearing opened at 7:44 p.m.
No public comment was made.
The public hearing closed at 7:44 p.m.

There were no further questions or comments from the Council.

Council Member Bynum made a motion to approve the 2023-2024 budget amendments by
Resolution.

A copy of the Resolution and budget amendments are attached and incorporated by this
reference.

MOTION: Sharla Bynum
SECOND: Natalie Pinkney

Roll Call Vote:
Bynum:            Yes
Huff:             Yes
Mitchell:         Yes
Pinkney:          Yes
                                                 5
South Salt Lake – Regular Council Meeting                           February 28, 2024


Thomas:        Yes
Williams:      Yes
Sanchez:       Yes



       Council Member Pinkney made a motion to Adjourn.


MOTION: Natalie Pinkney
SECOND: LeAnne Huff

Voice Vote:
Bynum:         Yes
Huff:          Yes
Mitchell:      Yes
Pinkney:       Yes
Thomas:        Yes
Williams:      Yes
Sanchez:       Yes



       The meeting adjourned at 7:49 p.m.




                                            _____________________________
                                            Sharla Bynum, Council Chair




_____________________________
Ariel Andrus, City Recorder




                                            6