Planning Commission Meeting Minutes
                                  Thursday, October 2, 2025
                              South Salt Lake Council Chambers
                                   220 East Morris Avenue
                                        Time: 7:00 PM

Commission Members Present:               Jeremy Carter, Chair
                                          Christy Dahlberg (participated remotely)
                                          Chad Ewell (participated remotely)
                                          George Pechmann
                                          Kathy Self




                                            T
                                          Olivia Spencer

Staff Members Present:                    Brianne Brass, Deputy City Attorney
                                          Eliza Ungricht, Deputy Director
                                          Spencer Cawley, Senior City Planner
                                          Jed Shum, City Planner


Attendees:
          AF                              Tereza Bagdasarova, City Planner

                                          Lane Clissold, Alpine Auto Renovation
                                          John Owens, Alpine Auto Renovation
                                          Hannah Carter
                                          Sam Plumb, Alpine Auto Renovation
                                          Robert Azarvand, Tesla
                                          Ben Ungricht (participated remotely)
                                          Kristen Feldhusen, BCG Holdings (participated remotely)

Chair Jeremy Carter called the Planning Commission Meeting to order at 7:00 PM.

PLANNING COMMISSION MEETING
R
Pledge of Allegiance:                     Commissioner Spencer

Motion to Approve Agenda:

Motion:                                   Commissioner Pechmann
D

Second:                                   Commissioner Self

Vote:                                     Commissioner Dahlberg – Yes;
                                          Commissioner Ewell – Yes;
                                          Commissioner Pechmann – Yes;
                                          Commissioner Self – Yes;
                                          Commissioner Spencer – Yes;
                                          Chair Carter – Yes.
South Salt Lake City Planning Commission Regular Meeting                                         2
October 2, 2025

                                             The vote was unanimous.

STAFF BUSINESS – INFORMATION ITEMS

1.      Final Plat Approval.

        a.      120 East Spencer Avenue.
        b.      3031 South Main Street.
        c.      3271 South 500 East – Historic Stott School.
        d.      823 West Davis – UTA MOW.
        e.      2250 South 600 West – SSL Sewer Pump House.




                                              T
        f.      2855 South State Street – Prestman Auto.

Deputy Director, Eliza Ungricht, reported that there are informational items to share with the Planning
Commission. It was noted that six Final Plat approvals had been issued since the last Planning
Commission Meeting.

PLANNING COMMISSION BUSINESS

1.


Motion:

Second:
             AF
        Approval of the August 7, 2025, Planning Commission Regular Meeting Minutes.
        ACTION ITEM

                                             Commissioner Spencer

                                             Commissioner Pechmann

Vote:                                        Commissioner Dahlberg – Yes;
                                             Commissioner Ewell – Yes;
                                             Commissioner Pechmann – Yes;
                                             Commissioner Self – Yes;
R
                                             Commissioner Spencer – Yes;
                                             Chair Carter – Yes.

                                             The vote was unanimous.

CONTINUING BUSINESS
D

1.      None.

NEW BUSINESS

1.      PUBLIC HEARING
        A Petition to the Planning Commission to Forward a Positive Recommendation to the South
        Salt Lake City Council for an Ordinance Amending Title 17 to Establish the Definition of
        Luxury Vehicle, Amend the Definition of Automotive Restoration, and Amend the Land Use
        Matrix for the Business Park Land Use District.
South Salt Lake City Planning Commission Regular Meeting                                            3
October 2, 2025

       ACTION ITEM
       Applicant: Lane Clissold, on behalf of Alpine Auto Renovation Enterprises, Inc.

Senior City Planner, Spencer Cawley, presented the Staff Report and stated that Sam Plumb, Lane
Clissold, and John Owens from Alpine Auto Renovation Enterprises, Inc. were present. The same
definition and changes to the Business Park Land Use District came before the Planning Commission
as part of the larger auto ordinance last year. This is now a separate application that the property owner
has specifically applied for. It is not part of the larger auto amendments and is specific to the location
of 3270 South 1100 West in the Business Park District. The applicant owns Alpine Auto Renovation
and is looking to expand the business. However, Automotive Restoration is not a permitted use in that
zone. The applicant's request is to expand the definition of Automotive Restoration to include a




                                                T
definition for Luxury Vehicle. It will also allow this as a permitted use in the Business Park District
and will establish permitted use standards for Automotive Restoration.

The Staff Report reviews the General Plan considerations. Mr. Cawley reported that this particular
application relates to Economic Goal #1, Strategy 3 of the General Plan, which encourages developing
and preserving neighborhood-based shops and services in strategic locations. The General Plan also
          AF
supports creating planning and zoning tools that encourage quality neighborhood-oriented development
and revitalization. This application aims to support an existing local business in an area of the City that
is appropriately developed for this type of use. Mr. Cawley explained that South Salt Lake zoning
groups use-based designations (conditional uses and permitted uses) with form-based elements (Design
Guidelines). That is what has brought about the current zoning, where most of the warehousing and
manufacturing-type businesses are west of I-15 and along major corridors. The Business Park District
was shown on a map. It is just under 5 acres and is the only location in the City that is designated this
way. He noted that Automotive Restoration is a consistent use with the established land use pattern.

The proposed updates were shared with the Planning Commission. This includes the establishment of
the definition for Luxury Vehicle. Mr. Cawley read the proposed language for Luxury Vehicle:
R
   •   “Vehicle, Luxury” means vehicles that offer higher to exceptional levels of driving comfort.
       These vehicles are equipped with advanced/superior levels of technology pertaining to the
       interior cabin elements, the exterior safety components, convenience features, and performance
       elements. These features and amenities are considered exclusive to these vehicles and would
       not be found in regular consumer vehicles. Luxury vehicles use high-quality materials,
       craftsmanship in design and construction, and attention to detail in form and function. Luxury
       vehicles require specific and elevated insurance coverage policies to account for higher repair
       and replacement costs than most other vehicles.
D

Mr. Cawley reported that there is a proposal to amend the definition of Automotive Restoration so it
includes not only the restoration of antique or classic automobiles, but also luxury vehicles and any of
the uses ancillary and necessary to perform the restoration-type activities. There is also a proposal to
amend Chapter 17.03 – Land Use Districts and Matrix. That will allow Automotive Restoration as a
permitted use in Business Park. There is also a proposal to amend Chapter 17.04 – Permitted Use
Review. Mr. Cawley explained that this will allow for the restoration of luxury vehicles and will limit
the operation from 7:00 a.m. to 8:00 p.m. when the use is within 200 feet of a residential district.
South Salt Lake City Planning Commission Regular Meeting                                              4
October 2, 2025

Outdoor storage is prohibited; only operable vehicles may be parked outdoors in designated parking
stalls, and parking vehicle inventory or vehicles under repair in the right-of-way is prohibited.

Staff recommended that the Planning Commission forward a recommendation of approval to the City
Council for an Ordinance amending Chapters 17.01, 17.03, and 17.04 of the South Salt Lake City
Municipal Code to establish the definition of Luxury Vehicle, amend the definition of Automotive
Restoration, amend the Land Use Matrix for the Business Park District, and amend the Permitted Use
Standards for Automotive Restoration. Mr. Cawley reiterated that the applicants are present at the
meeting.

Chair Carter reported that there is a pocket of residences near the subject property and asked how close




                                                 T
that neighborhood is to this location. Mr. Cawley did not have the exact measurements but believed the
closest home is further than 200 feet. Ms. Ungricht clarified that the 200 feet has to do with the hours
of operation. Deputy City Attorney, Brianne Brass, explained that if it is located within 200 feet of a
residence, the use needs to take place within the outlined hours of operation. Chair Carter asked if the
Luxury Vehicle definition is standard and can be measured. Mr. Cawley stated that this is a definition
that the applicant worked on with Staff to develop. It is a finite definition and hones in on specific types
          AF
of vehicles. Ms. Ungricht added that there is no general definition for Luxury Vehicle, which is the
reason there was work done with the applicant to develop appropriate language.

Ms. Brass explained that if someone applied for this use, there would need to be information provided
to show that there was a qualification for a Luxury Vehicle. Everything would be scrutinized based on
the individual application submitted. Mr. Clissold introduced himself as the President of Alpine Auto
Renovation. Commissioner Pechmann wanted to understand what kind of vehicles would be restored.
Mr. Clissold reported that the company is certified with major brands, such as BMW, Porsche, Bentley,
Lamborghini, and Aston Martin. Manufacturers decided that, based on the complexity of the vehicles,
there needed to be certification for body shops to repair them. He shared background information about
the certification process and the requirements. An audit process takes place once a year, where all of
the equipment is checked. Mr. Clissold stated that the building is needed so there is space to do the
luxury vehicle work.
R
Another representative from Alpine Auto Renovation, Mr. Plumb, shared information about the
definition language. From a BMW certification standpoint, Alpine Auto Renovation was the only shop
in the State of Utah for eight years. Currently, there are only two Porsche-certified facilities in the State
of Utah, one of which is Alpine Auto Renovation. A lot goes into the certification process.

Chair Carter thanked the representatives for sharing information about the certification process. He
D

wondered if there could be language added to the definition that is specific to certification. Ms. Brass
understood the desire to add that specificity, but pointed out that there is a difference between certified
and authorized. The language was drafted in a way that was limiting but not overly restrictive. This is
not a definition that is found in every City Ordinance, so Staff had to do a lot of research. Feedback
was also received from the applicant. Staff was comfortable with the current language but if the
Planning Commission wants more definitive language, it can be a recommendation made to the City
Council. Chair Carter pointed out that if there is conflict based on the ambiguity of the definition, it can
be revisited in the future. Ms. Brass confirmed that it would be possible to do so.
South Salt Lake City Planning Commission Regular Meeting                                           5
October 2, 2025

Chair Carter opened the public hearing. There were no comments. The public hearing was closed.

Motion to Forward a Recommendation of APPROVAL to the City Council for the Ordinance
Amending Chapters 17.01, 17.03, and 17.04 of the South Salt Lake City Municipal Code to
Establish the Definition of Luxury Vehicle, Amend the Definition of Automotive Restoration,
Amend the Land Use Matrix for the Business Park District, and Amend the Permitted Use
Standards for Automotive Restoration:

Motion:                                       Commissioner Dahlberg

Second:                                       Commissioner Spencer




                                                T
Vote:                                         Commissioner Dahlberg – Yes;
                                              Commissioner Ewell – Yes;
                                              Commissioner Pechmann – Yes;
                                              Commissioner Self – Yes;
                                              Commissioner Spencer – Yes;




2.
          AF
        PUBLIC HEARING
                                              Chair Carter – Yes.

                                              The vote was unanimous.


        A Petition to Amend Lot 1 of the Market Center Subdivision to Create the Market Center
        Condominium Plat.
        ACTION ITEM
        Applicant:    Blaser Ventures on behalf of SSL Affordable Phase 1, LLC
        Address:      55 East Haven Avenue

Mr. Cawley presented the Staff Report and stated that the application is a petition to amend Lot 1 of
the Market Center Subdivision to create the Market Center Condominium Plat. He shared some of the
R
timeline information related to the project. There was an approval for the Preliminary Subdivision Plat
by the Planning Commission on April 17, 2025. In June, the Planning Commission forwarded a positive
recommendation to the City Council to adopt Ordinance 2025-32, which established the Housing and
Transit Overlay District. On August 13, 2025, the City Council approved Resolution 2025-18, which
allowed the Mayor to approve and execute the Development Agreement.

That same evening, Ordinance 2025-41 was adopted, which amended the Zoning Map specific to this
D

property to the Housing and Transit Overlay. The Master Development Agreement was recorded with
the County on August 27, 2025. An image was shared with the Commission for reference. Mr. Cawley
explained that the yellow box shown on that image is Lot 1 of the Market Center Subdivision. This is
known as 55 East Haven Avenue and it is 2.996 acres. This is Phase 1 of the development. He explained
that Phase I is where the first 255 residential units will be located, as well as 470 parking stalls. This
will also include the private and public amenities specific to this building. In addition, this phase will
include all of the site infrastructure. The proposed Condominium Plat, as conditioned, complies with
the Housing and Transit Overlay and is consistent with the requirements of the Market Center Master
Development Agreement. The proposed Conditions of Approval are in the Staff Report.
South Salt Lake City Planning Commission Regular Meeting                                    6
October 2, 2025


The proposed Condominium Plat complies with Utah Code Chapter 57-8 – Condominium Ownership
Act. Mr. Cawley explained that the Plat includes diagrammatic floor plans, identifies the limited
common/common areas, residential, and retail units. Additionally, it has the creation of a Master
Owner’s Association or other form of management. The proposed Condominium Plat does not amend
or alter the requirements found in §17.10.120 – 17.10.200 approving the Market Center Subdivision.
The Master Development Agreement and Conditions of Approval require recording the Final
Subdivision Plat prior to Staff issuing Final Condominium Plat approval for Lot 1.

Staff recommended that the Planning Commission approve the Condominium Plat for Lot 1 of the
Market Center Subdivision located at 55 East Haven Avenue, based on the Findings of Fact,




                                              T
Conclusions of Law, and Conditions of Approval outlined in the Staff Report. The applicant is not
attending the Planning Commission Meeting in person, but was online and available to answer
questions.

Commissioner Dahlberg reported that a plan for the area was presented at a conference she attended
earlier in the day. A lot of work went into the planning and partnership and she thanked Staff for
            AF
everything that has been done. She believes this will be a positive addition to the community.

Chair Carter opened the public hearing. There were no comments. The public hearing was closed.

Motion to APPROVE the Application by Blaser Ventures, on Behalf of SSL Affordable Phase 1,
LLC, for a Preliminary Condominium Plat for Lot 1 of the Market Center Subdivision, located
at 55 East Haven Avenue, based on the following:

Findings of Fact:

       1.     On April 15, 2025, the Planning Commission approved a four-lot Preliminary
              Subdivision Plat for the Market Center Development located at 2280 South State
              Street.
R
       2.     On July 9, 2025, the City Council enacted Ordinance No. 2025-32 establishing the
              Housing & Transit Overlay.

       3.     On August 13, 2025, the City Council approved and adopted Resolution No. 2025-
              18 approving and authorizing the Mayor to execute a Development Agreement for
              the Market Center Project.
D

       4.     On August 13, 2025, the City Council adopted Ordinance No. 2025-41 amending
              the South Salt Lake Zoning Map from Downtown District to Housing & Transit
              Overlay for the Market Center Development.

       5.     On August 27, 2025, the Applicant recorded the Market Center Master
              Development Agreement, which governs the phasing and management of the
              Market Center Development.
South Salt Lake City Planning Commission Regular Meeting                                  7
October 2, 2025

       6.     Lot 1 of the Market Center Development is located at 55 East Haven Avenue in the
              Downtown District, Station Subdistrict and the Housing & Transit Overlay.

       7.     The parcel number for Lot 1 is 16-19-151-015-0000.

       8.     Lot 1 contains 2.996 acres (130,519 sq. ft.).

       9.     The purpose of the Condominium Plat is to allow the Applicant to commence Phase
              1 of the Market Center Development, which will contain 255 affordable residential
              units, 470 structure parking stalls, and various amenities.




                                              T
Conclusions of Law:

       1.     There is Good Cause for the Market Center Condominium Plat as it is consistent
              with the Market Center Master Development Agreement and the Housing &
              Transit Overlay.

       2.


       3.
            AFNeither the public nor any person will be materially injured by the proposed
              Condominium Plat.

              Approval of the Condominium Plat, subject to the conditions stated below, does
              not adversely affect the health, safety, and welfare of the citizens of South Salt
              Lake.


Conditions of Approval:

       1.     The City Planner, City Attorney, and City Engineer will review and approve the
              final form and content of the plat for compliance with State Law, the Land Use
              Code, and these Conditions of Approval, prior to recordation of the plat.
R
       2.     The Applicant shall continue working with City Staff to make all necessary
              technical corrections, recording the Final Condominium Plat.

       3.     Prior to issuing the Final Condominium Plat, the Applicant shall record the
              Subdivision Plat, the cross-access easements, and the CC&Rs.
D

       4.     Prior to plat recordation and any additional Development of the subsequent Lots,
              the Applicant must provide City Staff the final plat mylar with notarized
              signatures of owners’ consent to dedication; obtain signatures of all entities
              indicated on the Condominium Plat attached hereto.

       5.     The Condominium Plat shall not vacate or alter any easement, including the cross-
              access easements necessary for the project to function in part or as a whole.
South Salt Lake City Planning Commission Regular Meeting                                   8
October 2, 2025

        6.    The Applicant shall complete (or post an adequate improvement completion
              assurance), warrant and post required warranty assurance for all public
              infrastructure improvements, including streetlights.

        7.    The Applicant shall ensure that all site improvements are installed consistent with
              the requirements of the South Salt Lake City Municipal Code.

        8.    The proposed Development shall meet all requirements of the South Salt Lake City
              Municipal Code, unless specifically exempted through the fully executed Master
              Development Agreement.




                                               T
        9.    The proposed Development shall meet all requirements of the South Salt Lake
              Community Development Department, South Salt Lake Fire Marshal, the South
              Salt Lake Building Official, and the South Salt Lake Engineering Department.

        10.   The Applicant shall comply with all applicable International Building Codes and



        11.


        12.
             AF
              International Fire Codes and must obtain and complete a South Salt Lake Building
              Permit for Phase 1.

              The Applicant shall record the plat within two years of receiving Final Plat
              approval.

              All items of the Staff Report.

Motion:                                     Commissioner Pechmann

Second:                                     Commissioner Spencer

Vote:                                       Commissioner Dahlberg – Yes;
R
                                            Commissioner Ewell – Yes;
                                            Commissioner Pechmann – Yes;
                                            Commissioner Self – Yes;
                                            Commissioner Spencer – Yes;
                                            Chair Carter – Yes.

                                            The vote was unanimous.
D

Motion to ADJOURN the Planning Commission Meeting:

Motion:                                     Commissioner Pechmann

Second:                                     Commissioner Spencer

Vote:                                       Commissioner Pechmann – Yes;
                                            Commissioner Southey – Yes;
                                            Commissioner Self – Yes;
South Salt Lake City Planning Commission Regular Meeting                      9
October 2, 2025

                                            Commissioner Spencer – Yes;
                                            Chair Carter – Yes.

                                            The vote was unanimous.


The Planning Commission Meeting adjourned at 7:37 PM.




                                              T
                                                    For Planning Commission

________________________________
Community Development


         AF
R
D