AGENDA
                                                   PLANNING COMMISSION MEETING
                                                          Thursday, July 10, 2025
                                                     South Salt Lake Council Chambers
                                                          220 East Morris Avenue

                   PLANNING COMMISSION WORK MEETING AT 6:00 P.M.
                   1. Meadowbrook & Millcreek Station Area Plan Update
                   2. Mobility Plan Update – Link to Presentation

                   PLANNING COMMISSION MEETING AT 7:00 P.M.
                    Pledge of Allegiance: Stacey Holscher
                    Approve Agenda:       Jeremy Carter
 JONATHAN
WEIDENHAMER        STAFF BUSINESS – INFORMATION ITEMS
                   1. Online Trainings
COMMUNITY &
 ECONOMIC
                   PLANNING COMMISSION BUSINESS
DEVELOPMENT
                    Approval of the June 19, 2025 Planning Commission Minutes
  DIRECTOR
                    ACTION ITEM

                   CONTINUING BUSINESS
                    None at this time

                   NEW BUSINESS
                   1. PUBLIC HEARING
                      The Planning Commission will consider the proposed Moderate Income Housing Plan
                      Report incorporated in the General Plan appendix and forward a positive
                      recommendation to the City Council.
                      ACTION ITEM
                      Applicant: South Salt Lake City

                   2. PUBLIC HEARING
                      The Planning Commission will consider the proposed amendments to Title 17 and
                      forward a positive recommendation to the City Council to establish the City Facility
                      Overlay District.
                      ACTION ITEM
                      Applicant: South Salt Lake City

                   3. PUBLIC HEARING
                      A petition to the Planning Commission for a recommendation to the South Salt Lake
                      City Council for a zoning map amendment to include the City Facility Overlay District
                      at the property located at 3219 South 900 West.
                      ACTION ITEM
                      Applicant: South Salt Lake City
                      Address:     3219 South 900 West

CHERIE WOOD
    MAYOR          Join Zoom Webinar
220 E MORRIS AVE   https://zoom.us/j/92209934084
    SUITE 200      Webinar ID: 922 0993 4084
SOUTH SALT LAKE
      UTAH
      84115
 O 801.483.6000
    SSLC.GOV
MAYOR@SSLC.GOV      IN COMPLIANCE WITH THE AMERICANS WITH DISABILITIES ACT, INDIVIDUALS NEEDING AUXILIARY COMMUNICATIVE AIDS OR OTHER
                         SERVICES FOR THIS MEETING SHOULD CONTACT ELIZA UNGRICHT, (801) 483-6013, GIVING AT LEAST 24 HOURS NOTICE.
                        Planning Commission Regular Meeting Minutes
                                   Thursday, July 10, 2025
                              South Salt Lake Council Chambers
                                   220 East Morris Avenue
                                        Time: 6:00 PM

Commission Members Present:                Jeremy Carter, Chair
                                           Chad Ewell
                                           George Pechmann
                                           Kathy Self
                                           Mary Anna Southey
                                           Suzanne Slifka

Staff Members Present:                     Brianne Brass, Deputy City Attorney
                                           Eliza Ungricht, Deputy Director
                                           Spencer Cawley, Senior City Planner
                                           Jed Shum, City Planner
                                           Stephen Lyon, Senior RDA Project and Housing Manager
                                           Carl Osterberg, Mobility Planner
                                           Jonathan Weidenhamer, Community and Economic
                                                  Development Director

Chair Carter called the Planning Commission Regular Meeting to order at 7:26 p.m.

PLANNING COMMISSION MEETING

Pledge of Allegiance:                      Commissioner Ewell

Motion to Approve the Planning Commission Meeting Agenda:

Motion:                                    Commissioner Pechmann

Second:                                    Commissioner Ewell

Vote:                                      Commissioner Ewell – Yes;
                                           Commissioner Pechmann – Yes;
                                           Commissioner Self – Yes;
                                           Commissioner Southey – Yes;
                                           Commissioner Slifka – Yes;
                                           Chair Carter – Yes.

                                           The vote was unanimous.

STAFF BUSINESS – INFORMATIONAL ITEMS

1.      Online Trainings.
South Salt Lake City Planning Commission Regular Meeting                                          2
July 10, 2025

Ms. Ungricht reminded Commissioners who have not completed the online trainings to do so.
Anyone unsure what training still needs to be done can email her and she will let them know. Chair
Carter asked how many hours of training are required. Ms. Ungricht reported that four hours are
needed. Chair Carter wondered wanted to know if there are plans for some portion to be conducted
during a future Planning Commission Meeting, which was denied. He asked if the Planning
Commission would like there to be training conducted during a meeting. Commissioner Slifka
reported that she has completed the training videos, which took more than four hours. Ms. Ungricht
added that there is one hour of credit provided if someone attends more than 12 Planning
Commission Meetings. There are more than 12 meetings throughout the year, so most will have
that one hour of credit based on attendance. Chair Carter suggested discussing this again in a month
or two to determine whether training during a Planning Commission Meeting is necessary.

Mr. Weidenhamer asked if there was anything in particular that the Planning Commission would
like to learn more about. Commissioner Pechmann was interested in learning more about
wastewater management and Commissioner Slifka would like more information about the Staff
process involved in preparing items for the Planning Commission and City Council. Chair Carter
reiterated that there can be another discussion about this at a future meeting. He asked that
Commissioners think about items where there might be a desire to receive additional information
about in the future. Mr. Weidenhamer likes the idea of adding to the training hours with some in-
person items. Ms. Ungricht asked that topic suggestions be submitted via email so she can create
a list of ideas.

PLANNING COMMISSION BUSINESS

1.      Approval of the June 19, 2025, Planning Commission Minutes.

Motion to Approve the June 19, 2025, Planning Commission Minutes:

Motion:                                       Commissioner Slifka

Second:                                       Commissioner Southey

Vote:                                         Commissioner Ewell – Yes;
                                              Commissioner Pechmann – Yes;
                                              Commissioner Self – Yes;
                                              Commissioner Southey – Yes;
                                              Commissioner Slifka – Yes;
                                              Chair Carter – Yes.

                                              The vote was unanimous.

CONTINUING BUSINESS

1.      None.
South Salt Lake City Planning Commission Regular Meeting                                           3
July 10, 2025

NEW BUSINESS

1.       PUBLIC HEARING
         The Planning Commission will Consider the Proposed Moderate-Income Housing Plan
         Report Incorporated in the General Plan Appendix and Forward a Positive
         Recommendation to the City Council.
         ACTION ITEM
         Applicant: South Salt Lake City

Senior RDA Project and Housing Manager, Stephen Lyon, explained that he was hired in March
and will be handling housing affordability issues in the City. He shared some information about
his professional background, including serving as the Chair of the Planning Commission in
Kaysville, working for the Governor’s Office of Economic Development, working as the
Economic Development Director for Morgan County, and working in Davis County on the
Community Development Block Grant (“CDBG”). He is now in South Salt Lake serving as the
Senior RDA Project and Housing Manager and is excited to bring his experience to the City.

The agenda item is related to the Moderate-Income Housing Plan. Mr. Lyon reported that in 2022,
as part of the General Plan, the City adopted the Moderate-Income Housing Plan. The City adopted
a minimum of five strategies to comply with the State requirements. Two of those strategies have
been achieved and the others will continue to be worked on. Mr. Lyon explained that the reporting
will now move to every three years. The strategies will increase in 2026, because the intention is
to achieve a few more of the strategies next year. Increasing the number will allow the City to
access increased State funding resources. This year, the State has to create the State of Utah
Housing Plan. It is due to the Governor’s Office of Planning and Budget by December 31, 2025.

Mr. Lyon shared the five Moderate-Income Housing Plan strategies and their current status:

     •   Create or allow for, and reduce regulations related to, internal detached accessory dwelling
         units in residential zones (Complete);
     •   Zone or rezone for higher density or moderate-income residential development in
         commercial or mixed-use zones near major transit investment corridors, commercial
         centers, or employment centers (Ongoing);
     •   Amend land use regulations to eliminate or reduce parking (Ongoing);
     •   Create a Housing and Transit Reinvestment Zone pursuant to Title 63N, Chapter 3, Part 6,
         Housing and Transit Reinvestment Zone Act (Complete);
     •   Develop and adopt a Station Area Plan in accordance with Section 10-9a-403.1 (Ongoing
         with two plans complete).

The proposed strategies to add in 2025 were reviewed and are as follows:

     •   Rezone for densities necessary to facilitate the production of moderate-income housing;
     •   Demonstrate investment in the rehabilitation of existing uninhabitable housing stock into
         moderate-income housing.
South Salt Lake City Planning Commission Regular Meeting                                           4
July 10, 2025

Mr. Lyon reported that there is a partnership in place with Habitat for Humanity and funding has
been acquired through the CDBG and the Redevelopment Agency (“RDA”). The City is starting
to look into acquisitions of abandoned houses and housing stock in the City. Those can then be
sold back as permanent affordable housing in South Salt Lake. The timeline was reviewed:

    •   July 10, 2025: Planning Commission Recommendation;
    •   July 23, 2025: City Council Adoption of the Two Strategies;
    •   August 1, 2025: Moderate-Income Housing Plan Report is Due to the Department of
        Workforce Services.

The Planning Commission can either approve, deny, or continue the item, but Staff recommends
approval based on the timeline. Mr. Weidenhamer noted that as part of future Planning
Commission training, it would be possible to come back and provide more in-depth information
about the process and requirements. Chair Carter expressed support for that kind of training. Mr.
Lyon confirmed that Staff can share information about housing types, availability, and
terminology. This will increase the Commission’s understanding of moderate-income housing.

Chair Carter asked about the third strategy, which is to “amend land use regulations to eliminate
or reduce parking.” He asked if this references public, private, or commercial parking. Mr. Lyon
explained that this is within development. He shared information about Senate Bill (“S.B.”) 181
this year. The State does not want to see garages on homes that are being sold in a certain price
range. There is a desire to see reduced parking on small homes due to the associated costs. Chair
Carter asked how that would impact commercial development and noted that he has heard
comments that many cities have overparked commercial space. Mr. Weidenhamer clarified that
this relates to affordable housing, so commercial spaces are not necessarily part of the
conversation. Instead of two parking spaces per single-family home, there could be one, or there
could be some shared parking. Mr. Lyon confirmed that the strategy relates to residential uses.

Chair Carter next asked to review the seventh strategy, which is to “demonstrate investment in the
rehabilitation of existing uninhabitable housing stock into moderate-income housing.” He asked if
that would involve taking a single-family dwelling that is dilapidated and possibly turning that into
a duplex to make it more affordable. Mr. Weidenhamer explained that there are a number of
options, but the Mayor is interested in that kind of scenario. It is important to be sensitive about
overpowering neighborhoods, so there would need to be a policy in place about the number of
duplexes that could be allowed in a neighborhood. There needs to be something established that is
balanced and takes into account parking and traffic. He explained that there can be a Deed
Restriction placed on the property to ensure that it remains affordable for a certain amount of time.
Mr. Lyon is working on all aspects of that funding chain, from creating downpayment assistance
to subsidizing other parts of the project. South Salt Lake is unique because there is 36%
homeownership, whereas most cities in Utah are at around 70%. Stabilizing neighborhoods is key.

Chair Carter noted that the market is volatile enough now that it may be hard to increase the
homeownership numbers. He asked if the City is taking into account the current economic
situation. Mr. Weidenhamer reported that thought has been given to opportunities available for
redevelopment. Mr. Lyon understands the comment made by Chair Carter and noted that it is
necessary to look at the future trends. There are people who only want to rent, but there are also a
lot of people who are interested in ownership, because ownership builds equity. The idea is to
South Salt Lake City Planning Commission Regular Meeting                                          5
July 10, 2025

make it possible for families who would like to purchase something to take that next step forward.
Mr. Lyon referenced House Bill (“H.B.”) 360 and the money given to strengthen legacy
neighborhoods. The State is not only focused on new development, but revitalizing existing areas.

Chair Carter opened the public hearing. There were no comments. The public hearing was closed.

Motion to Forward a Recommendation to the City Council for a Resolution to ADOPT the
Annual Moderate-Income Housing Plan Report:

Motion:                                       Commissioner Southey

Second:                                       Commissioner Pechmann

Vote:                                         Commissioner Ewell – Yes;
                                              Commissioner Pechmann – Yes;
                                              Commissioner Self – Yes;
                                              Commissioner Southey – Yes;
                                              Commissioner Slifka – Yes;
                                              Chair Carter – Yes.

                                              The vote was unanimous.

2.      PUBLIC HEARING
        The Planning Commission will Consider the Proposed Amendments to Title 17 and
        Forward a Positive Recommendation to the City Council to Establish the City Facility
        Overlay District.
        ACTION ITEM
        Applicant: South Salt Lake City

Ms. Ungricht reported that this presentation will cover the next two items on the agenda, because
they are related. The recommendation is to establish a City Facility Overlay District. This would
apply to properties that are leased for the City and where there is a desire to have a City Facility
use without changing the base zone. The overlay would allow for the benefits of a City Facility
use. However, when the lease ends, the overlay would expire and return to the base zone.

The Draft Ordinance, as it reads currently, would add the City Facility Overlay District to the Code
that was brought before the Planning Commission in April and that the City Council approved on
April 23, 2025. If the Planning Commission forwards a positive recommendation and it is
approved by the City Council, then the overlay would be applied to the property at 3291 South 900
West. The proposed changes to Title 17 were reviewed. Ms. Ungricht explained that it would add
the City Facility Overlay District to the Land Use Matrix and add it to 17.03.130, 17.07.020,
17.07.030, and 17.10.190. There will be language to state that when a lease expires, the overlay
will also expire. She noted that there are no significant changes proposed to be made to Title 17.

Ms. Ungricht shared images to illustrate the proposed Zoning Map changes. Since this is an
overlay, the base zoning would remain, which in this case is Commercial Corridor. The overlay
would be placed on top of the property at 3291 South 900 West. That means all of the uses for
South Salt Lake City Planning Commission Regular Meeting                                            6
July 10, 2025

Commercial Corridor could occur, as well as the City Facility Overlay uses. Based on the proposed
language, the City Facility Overlay would be removed as soon as the lease is terminated. As for
the schedule, this item was taken to the City Council last night for a Work Meeting. There is now
a public hearing that will take place at the Planning Commission level. This will return to the City
Council for a Regular Meeting on July 23, 2025. The General Plan considerations were reviewed:

   •   Land Use and Neighborhoods Goal 1 – Strategy 1: Identify areas of the City with
       appropriate infrastructure, amenities, and services to support households of various types
       and densities.
          o Analysis: This goal is met as the city facilities will be able to locate in areas that
               best serve the community in a cost-effective and efficient manner.
   •   Land Use and Neighborhoods Goal 3 - Strategy 13: Maintain residential, business and
       industrial areas that are vibrant and where the health and safety of all are protected.
          o Analysis: This amendment and zone change to establish the City Facility Overlay
               District will allow the City to provide City Facility locations throughout the City
               and appropriate standards for a range of public uses conducted by governmental
               and specified agencies to best serve and protect the health, safety, and welfare of
               the public, without having to own the property. This is what is being proposed at
               3291 South 900 West.

Staff recommends that the Planning Commission forward a positive recommendation to the City
Council to approve the ordinance amending multiple sections of Title 17 of the South Salt Lake
City Municipal Code to establish the City Facility Overlay District. Staff also recommends that
the Planning Commission forward a positive recommendation to the City Council for the second
item on the meeting agenda. The Planning Commission can approve, deny, or continue these items.
There was discussion about the address and it was clarified that it is 3291 South 900 West.

Chair Carter expressed concern about spot zoning. He understands this situation, because it will
become a City use and it makes sense to take this approach. However, he has questions about the
existing uses to the north and east. Ms. Ungricht reported that to the north is the Fire Station, to
the east is Golf the Round, and to the south is a gas station. Chair Carter asked about the
appropriateness of the potential use. Mr. Weidenhamer shared information about the property.

Commissioner Pechmann likes the fact that an overlay is proposed because when the lease expires,
the overlay expires as well. Deputy City Attorney, Brianne Brass, clarified that the overlay is not
exactly tied to the lease, but to the City's use. No other entity is eligible for a City Facility use.
Chair Carter explained that he wants to consider the impact on the neighborhood overall. As long
as there are no detrimental impacts to the surrounding neighborhood, then he can support a positive
recommendation to the City Council. Commissioner Slifka asked how long the lease will be. Mr.
Weidenhamer believed it was three years with the ability to renew. The funding is coming out of
the Public Works project. There is no long-term money allocated for this use. It is only intended
to be used in this manner for the duration of the Public Works project. Commissioner Slifka
pointed out that the address is listed as 3219 South 900 West on the meeting agenda. Ms. Brass
explained that this is a recommendation, so it is possible to make the recommendation and state
that the City Council can take comments about the property. Chair Carter asked that the correct
address be used when the motion is made. Ms. Ungricht reported that she changed the language,
so the correct address is now listed in the sample motion on the presentation slides.
South Salt Lake City Planning Commission Regular Meeting                                     7
July 10, 2025


Chair Carter opened the public hearing. There were no comments. The public hearing was closed.

Motion to Forward a Recommendation of APPROVAL to the City Council for the
Ordinance Amending Multiple Sections of Title 17 of the South Salt Lake City Municipal
Code to Establish the City Facility Overlay District, Based on the Analysis and Findings Set
Forth in the Staff Report and on the Record:

Motion:                                     Commissioner Slifka

Second:                                     Commissioner Ewell

Vote:                                       Commissioner Ewell – Yes;
                                            Commissioner Pechmann – Yes;
                                            Commissioner Self – Yes;
                                            Commissioner Southey – Yes;
                                            Commissioner Slifka – Yes;
                                            Chair Carter – Yes.

                                            The vote was unanimous.

3.      PUBLIC HEARING
        A Petition to the Planning Commission for a Recommendation to the South Salt Lake City
        Council for a Zoning Map Amendment to include the City Facility Overlay District at the
        property located at 3291 South 900 West.
        ACTION ITEM
        Applicant: South Salt Lake City
        Address: 3291 South 900 West

Ms. Ungricht reported that this item was discussed during the previous presentation.

Chair Carter opened the public hearing. There were no comments. The public hearing was closed.

Motion to Forward a Recommendation of Approval to the South Salt Lake City Council to
Amend the Zoning Map for One Parcel to Include the City Facility Overlay District, Located
at 3291 South 900 West, Based on the Analysis and Findings Set Forth in the Staff Report.

Findings and Conclusions:

     1. The subject property is located at 3291 South 900 West.

     2. The subject parcel is located in the Commercial Corridor Land Use District.

     3. The proposed zone change would include the City Facility Overlay District.

     4. The purpose of the zone change is to allow the City Facility Overlay use on this parcel
        for the lifespan of the lease. The purpose of the zone change is consistent with the
                             PLANNING COMMISSION STAFF REPORT
MEETING DATE:                July 10, 2025
PROJECT NUMBER:              GP25-0001
REQUEST:                     A Resolution of the South Salt Lake City Council Amending the South Salt Lake
                             General Plan 2040 to Adopt the 2025 Updated Moderate Income Housing
                             Plan.
APPLICANT:                   South Salt Lake City
 SYNOPSIS:
 Staff is proposing a second amendment to the South Salt Lake General Plan 2040 to comply with state
 requirements for moderate income housing.
 The Utah State Legislature passed House Bill 462 in March of 2022 (“HB 462”), requiring that
 municipalities take additional steps to ensure that each municipality is planning for and reducing barriers
 to moderate income housing. Moderate income is defined as those persons/families with household
 incomes less than eighty percent (80%) the area median income (“AMI”). HB 462 requires that
 municipalities include certain strategies in the Moderate Income Housing elements of their general plans
 and provides a list of twenty-four menu items to select them from. HB 462 also requires that cities
 develop actionable implementation plans for each of those strategies that include a timeline for each
 strategy within the next five years.

 The Planning Commission is the recommending body for amendments to the General Plan and the City
 Council is the land use authority for amendments to the General Plan.

PROJECT INFORMATION:
South Salt Lake was originally required to select and adopt at least five strategies. They adopted those
strategies and have now worked to accomplish two of the five strategies. Staff are recommending that we
adopt the two additional strategies listed below. The current South Salt Lake General Plan 2040 only requires
minor modifications to meet HB462 requirements.

Staff will place the added strategies to the appendix as the most applicable area to include the new
strategies and implementation plan. The appendix currently houses the 2022 Moderate Incoming Housing
Plan (as updated by Resolution of the City Council December 14, 2022).



PROPOSED STRATEGIES AND IMPLEMENTATION ELEMENTS:

(A ) Strategy 6: Rezone for densities necessary to facilitate the production of moderate income
housing

Implentation Action:

   •   Identify areas of with appropriate infrastructure, amenities, and services to where moderate income
       and affordable homeownership are appropriate; and
   •   Work with South Salt Lake City Council and appropriate South Salt Lake City Staff to create and
       implement an ordinance as part of the City’s zoning update by December 2026.
                                                      1
(C) Strategy 7: Demonstrate investment in the rehabilitation of existing uninhabitable housing stock
into moderate income housing

Implementation Action:
   • Identify areas in the city where housing stock is available and can provide moderate and affordable
      home ownership in the City, and;
         o Create a plan and develop resources to purchase existing dilapidated and abandoned
             housing stock that can then be rehabilitated into affordable housing stock; and
                  Have a pilot program and be able to demonstrate success by July 2027


STAFF RECOMMENDATION:

Staff recommends the Planning Commission forward a recommendation of approval to the City Council for
the resolution to adopt the annual Moderate Income Housing Plan (MIHP) Report.

PLANNING COMMISSION AUTHORITY:

17.11.010. Establishment and Duties of Planning Commission.

   K. Responsibilities.

       A. The Planning Commission makes recommendations to the City Council for:
             a. The general plan and amendments to the general plan;
             b. The Land Use Map, and amendments to the Land Use Map;
             c. Amendments to land use ordinances;
             d. Proposed Application processes and the delegation of power under the land use
             ordinance.

PLANNING COMMISSION OPTIONS:
Option 1: Approval

   Move to forward a recommendation of approval to the City Council for a resolution to adopt the annual
   Moderate Income Housing Plan Report.

Option 2: Denial

   Move to forward a recommendation to the City Council to deny a resolution to adopt the annual
   Moderate Income Housing Plan Report.

Option 3: Continuance

   Move to table the recommendation to the City Council for a resolution to adopt the annual Moderate
   Income Housing Plan Report.


ATTACHMENTS:
   1. Draft South Salt Lake General Plan 2040 Appendix




                                                   2
                                     EXHIBIT A
                 2025 UPDATED MODERATE INCOME HOUSING PLAN
                 Moderate Income Housing Plan 2022 0 10-9a-403(2)(b)(iii)



(A) Strategy 6: Rezone for densities necessary to facilitate the production of moderate
income housing

Implementation Action:
   • Identify areas of with appropriate infrastructure, amenities, and services to where
      moderate income and affordable homeownership are appropriate and;
   • Work with South Salt Lake City Council and appropriate South Salt Lake City Staff to
      create and implement an ordinance as part of the City’s zoning update by December
      2026.


(C) Strategy 7: Demonstrate investment in the rehabilitation of existing uninhabitable
housing stock into moderate income housing

Implementation Action:
   • Identify areas in the city where housing stock is available and can provide moderate and
      affordable home ownership in the City, and;
   • Create a plan and develop resources to purchase existing dilapidated and abandoned
      housing stock that can then be rehabilitated into affordable housing stock; and
          o Have a pilot program and be able to demonstrate success by July 2027
                                 PLANNING COMMISSION STAFF REPORT
MEETING DATE:    July 10, 2025
PROJECT NUMBERS: OA25-0008 / ZC25-0003
REQUESTS:        1) A petition to the Planning Commission to forward a positive recommendation to the
                 City Council to establish the City Facility Overlay District.
                 2) A petition to the Planning Commission to forward a positive recommendation to the
                 City Council to amend the zoning map for the property located at 3291 South 900
                 West to include the City Facility Overlay District.
APPLICANT:       South Salt Lake City
TYPE OF ITEM:    Legislative – Code Amendment

SYNOPSIS:
South Salt Lake entered into a lease agreement to lease the property at 3291 South 900 West. This property is
currently located in the Commercial Corridor zone. The intended use for the property is to relocate some of the
cars and other outdoor storage that is being stored on the Public Works Campus. This storage needs to be
relocated as part of the Public Works Campus rebuild. The Commercial Corridor does not allow any outdoor
storage in the zone; therefore, staff is recommending establishing a new overlay, the City Facility Overlay. This
would mimic the City Facility land use district, but the overlay would only last as long as the City Facility use is
utilized. Outdoor storage would be permitted, but the following standards would apply:

    •   Screening. Outdoor storage and storage yards must be screened from public view. Solid fencing shall
        be installed to screen outdoor storage areas. All fencing must be at least six feet in height and may not
        exceed the maximum height of 8 feet. Chain link and vinyl fences are prohibited.
    •   All fences shall meet the Clear View Area requirements.
    •   Barbed Wire. Fences containing strands of barbed wire, including all forms of security wire, shall be
        prohibited.
    •   Electrified Fences. Electrified fences shall be prohibited. This provision does not prohibit an "invisible"
        fence (wired or wireless) to contain canines with a collar receiver.

After reviewing our options, we have found that leasing a property for a few years and applying the proposed
City Facility Overlay, is the most cost effective option rather than buying a property and changing the zoning to
City Facility.

The Planning Commission is the recommending body to the City Council for amendments to land use
ordinances and zone changes. The City Council is the land use authority for amendments to land use ordinances
and zone changes.

Staff has provided a summary of proposed amendments below. For the full amendment to Title 17 of the South
Salt Lake City Municipal Code (“Code”), please see the attachments provided herein that include a full-redlined
ordinance.

STAFF RECOMMENDATIONS:
Staff recommends the Planning Commission forward a positive recommendation to the City Council to approve
the ordinance to establish the City Facility Overlay District.

 Staff recommends the Planning Commission forward a positive recommendation to the City Council to amend
 the zoning map for the property located at 3219 South 900 West to include the City Facility Overlay.

                                                          1
CODE SECTIONS               HIGHLIGHT OF CHANGES
Amending Title 17.03.       17.03.010 Land Use Matrix
Land-Use Districts and         Adding the City Facility Overlay District to the matrix and have it replicate the
Matrix                           City Facility land use district for the permitted, conditional, and prohibited
                                 uses.
                            17.03.130 City Facility Overlay district
                                Add the new overlay district.
                            17.07.020 Building Form by Land Use District
                                Include the City Facility Overlay District
                            17.07.030 Development Standards
                                Include the City Facility Overlay District
                            17.10.190 Utilities
                                Include the City Facility Overlay District

 Figures 1 & 2: Existing & Proposed Zoning Map




GENERAL PLAN CONSIDERATIONS
 Land Use and Neighborhoods Goal 1 – Strategy 1: Identify areas of the City with appropriate infrastructure,
 amenities, and services to support households of various types and densities.

     Analysis: This goal is met as the city facilities will be able to locate in areas that best serve the community
     in a cost effective and efficient manner.

 Land Use and Neighborhoods Goal 3 - Strategy 13: Maintain residential, business and industrial areas that
 are vibrant and where the health and safety of all are protected.

     Analysis: This amendment and zone change to establish the City Facility Overlay District will allow the City
     to provide City Facility locations throughout the City and appropriate standards for a range of public uses
                                                         2
   conducted by governmental and specified agencies to best serve and protect the health, safety, and
   welfare of the public, without having to own the property. This is what is being proposed at 3219 South
   900 West.


PLANNING COMMISSION AUTHORITY:
17.11.010. Establishment and Duties of Planning Commission.
   K. Responsibilities.
       A. The Planning Commission makes recommendations to the City Council for:
             a. The general plan and amendments to the general plan;
             b. The Land Use Map, and amendments to the Land Use Map;
             c. Amendments to land use ordinances;
             d. Proposed Application processes and the delegation of power under the land use ordinance.



PLANNING COMMISSION REVIEW:
Utah Code Ann. § 10-9a-502. Preparation and adoption of land use regulation states:
      1. A planning commission shall:
              a. provide notice as required by Subsection 10-9a-205(1)(a) and, if applicable, Subsection 10-
              9a-205(4);
              b. hold a public hearing on a proposed land use regulation;
              c. if applicable, consider each written objection filed in accordance with Subsection 10-9a-
              205(4) prior to the public hearing; and
              d.      i. review and recommend to the legislative body a proposed land use regulation that
                      represents the planning commission's recommendation for regulating the use and
                      development of land within all or any part of the area of the municipality; and
                      ii. forward to the legislative body all objections filed in accordance with Subsection 10-
                      9a-205(4).


STAFF RECOMMNEDATIONS:
Staff recommends the Planning Commission forward a positive recommendation to the City Council to approve
all, of the ordinance amending multiple sections of Title 17 of the South Salt Lake City Municipal Code (“Code”)
to establish the City Facility Overlay District.

Staff recommends the Planning Commission forward a positive recommendation to the City Council to amend
the zoning map for the property located at 3192 South 900 West to include the City Facility Overlay District
based on the following Findings and Conclusions with the following findings of fact.

Findings and Conclusions:
   1. The subject property is located at 3219 South 900 West.
   2. The subject parcel is located in the Commercial Corridor land use district.
   3. The proposed zone change will change would include the City Facility Overlay District.
   4. The purpose of the zone change is to allow the City Facility Overlay use on this parcel for the life span
       of the lease. The purpose of the zone change is consistent with the General Plan, and in the best
       interests of the City, as presented in the analysis of the staff report.




                                                       3
PLANNING COMMISSION OPTIONS:

Ordinance Amendment:

   Option 1: Approval
   Move to forward a recommendation of approval to the City Council for the ordinance amending multiple
   sections of Title 17 of the South Salt Lake City Municipal Code (“Code”) to establish the City Facility Overlay
   District, based on the analysis and findings set forth in the staff report and on the record.

   Option 2: Denial
   Move to to forward a recommendation of denial to the City Council for the ordinance amending multiple
   sections of Title 17 of the South Salt Lake City Municipal Code (“Code”) to establish the City Facility Overlay
   District, based on the finding set forth on the record.

   Option 3: Continuance
   Move to table the recommendation to the City Council for the ordinance amending multiple sections of
   Title 17 of the South Salt Lake City Municipal Code (“Code”) to establish the City Facility Overlay District.


Zone Change:

   Option 1: Approval
   Move to forward a recommendation of approval to the South Salt Lake City Council to amend the zoning
   map for one parcel to include the City Facility Overlay District located at 3219 South 900 West, based on
   the analysis and findings set forth in the staff report.

   Option 2: Denial
   Move to forward a recommendation of denial to the South Salt Lake City Council to amend the zoning map
   for one parcel to include the City Facility Overlay District located at 3219 South 900 West, based on the
   analysis and findings set forth on the record.

   Option 3: Continuance
   Move to table the recommendation to the South Salt Lake City Council to amend the zoning map for one
   parcel to include the City Facility Overlay District located at 3219 South 900 West, to a date certain to allow
   staff to provide information necessary to make a decision.

Attachments:
1. Redlined Ordinance Amendment




                                                       4
                                                   EXHIBIT A



                                            Title 17
                                   Land Use and Development

                      Chapter 17.03 LAND-USE DISTRICTS AND MATRIX
Sections:

17.03.010 Land Use Matrix.
A.   Any Use not specifically permitted or conditionally permitted in this Land Use Matrix is prohibited. Only the
     following Uses are allowed:
     1.     Uses indicated by the letter "P" below are Permitted Uses only where designated.
     2.     Uses indicated by the letter "C" are Conditional Uses only where designated.
B.   All Permitted Uses are subject to the general and specific standards, as applicable, contained in Section
     17.04, as well as the regulations of each particular zoning district where permitted.
C.   All Conditional Uses are subject to the general and specific standards, as applicable, contained in Section
     17.05, as well as the regulations of each particular zoning district.




                                                    Page 1 of 13
      Land Use Categories




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      East Streetcar Nbhd. - State Street
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Crossing MPMU - 2100 S/State St.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Tracy Aviarys Jordan River Nature
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Crossing MPMU - Anchor Tenant




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Crossing MPMU- Transit District




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           East Streetcar Nbhd. - 500 East
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Riverfront MPMU - Flex/Office




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Granite MPMU - Townhome




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            East Streetcar Nbhd. - North
                                                         Commercial Neighborhood




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Riverfront MPMU - School
                                                                                                                                                                                                              City Facility & City Facility




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Granite Lofts Townhome
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Riverfront MPMU - RM1




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Granite MPMU - Library




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Downtown - Mixed-Use
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Downtown - Greenway
                                                                                                                                                              Historic and Landmark




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Riverfront MPMU - R1
                                   Commercial Corridor




                                                                                   Commercial General




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Residential Multiple




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Downtown - Station




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Townhome Overlay
                                                                                                        TOD and TOD-Core




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Downtown - Retail
                                                                                                                                       Business Park




                                                                                                                                                                                      Jordan River




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        HTZ Overlay
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Open Space
                                                                                                                           Mixed Use




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Gateway




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Gateway
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      SSLC-PD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Overlay




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Center
                                                                                                                                                                                                     School




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Haven




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                FINCH
                                                                                                                                                       Flex




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           R1
           Adult Daycare               C                                                      C                   C              C
Alcoholic Beverage, Banquet and
                                       P                                P                      P                  P              P                       P                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 P                     P                      P                    P                                                                                                                                                 P
               Catering
     Alcoholic Beverage, Bar
                                       C                                                                          C                                                                                                                                                                                       C                                 C                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              C                     C                      C                    C                                                                                                                                                 C
           Establishment
    Alcoholic Beverage, Beer
                                       P                                P                      P                  P              P                       P                                                                                                                                                P                                 P                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              P                     P                      P                    P                                                                                                                                                 P
            Recreational
    Alcoholic Beverage, Beer
                                                                                                                                                         C
             Wholesaler
    Alcoholic Beverage, Hotel          P                                P                      P                  P              P                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         P                     P                      P                    P                                                                                                                                                 P
   Alcoholic Beverage, Liquor
                                                                                                                                                         C
             Warehouse
    Alcoholic Beverage, Local
                                       P                                P                      P                  P              P             P         P                  P                                                                                                                             P                                 P                                 P                                P                                                                                                                                                                                                                           P                     P                      P                    P                                                                                                                                                 P
     Industry Representative
       Alcoholic Beverage,
                                       C                                                                          C                                      C                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 C                     C                      C                    C
           Manufacturer
Alcoholic Beverage, Off-Premises
                                       P                                P                      P                  P              P                       P                                                                                                                                                P                                 P                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              P                     P                      P                    P                                                                                                                                                 P
                 Beer
  Alcoholic Beverage, Package
                                       P                                                       P                  P              P                       P                                                                                                                                                P                                 P                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              P                     P                      P                    P                                                                                                                                                 P
                Agency
 Alcoholic Beverage, Reception
                Center
 Alcoholic Beverage, Restaurant
                                       P                                P                      P                  P              P                       P                                                                                                                                                                                  P                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              P                     P                      P                    P                   P                                   P                               P                                                         P
             (Beer Only)
 Alcoholic Beverage, Restaurant
                                       P                                P                      P                  P              P                       P                                                                                                                                                                                  P                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              P                     P                      P                    P                   P                                   P                               P                                                         P
         (Limited Service)
 Alcoholic Beverage, Restaurant
                                       P                                P                      P                  P              P                       P                                                                                                                                                                                  P                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              P                     P                      P                    P                   P                                   P                               P                                                         P
            (Full Service)
 Alcoholic Beverage, Special Use
                                       P                                                                          P                                      P                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 P                     P                      P                    P                   P                                   P                               P                                                         P
           (Educational)
 Alcoholic Beverage, Special Use
                                                                                               P                                                         P                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     P                                                                                                                                                                                                                           P                     P                      P                    P
   (Industrial/Manufacturing)
 Alcoholic Beverage, Special Use
                                       P                                                       P                  P                                      P                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     P                                                                                                                                                                                                                           P                     P                      P                    P
              (Scientific)
 Alcoholic Beverage, Special Use
                                       P                                P                      P                  P              P             P         P                  P                                                                               P                P                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             P                     P                      P                    P                   P                                   P                               P
              (Religious)
   Alcoholic Beverage, Tavern          C                                                                          C                                                                                                                                                                                       C                                 C                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              C                     C                      C                    C                                                                                                                                                 C
Alcoholic Beverage, State Liquor
                                       C                                                                          C                                      C                                                                                                                                                                                  C                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              C                     C                      C                    C                   C                                   C                               C                                                         C
                 Store
    All-Terrain Vehicle (ATV),
                                       P                                                       P                                                         P                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              P                    P
Motorcycle, Personal Watercraft




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Page 2 of 13
 (PWC), Snowmobile Sales and
               Service
       Amusement Device
  Animal Hospital/Veterinary
                                    P       P   P   P       P                                      P           P       P   P   P   P                   P
      Office (Small Animal)
    Animal Kennel/Day Care,
                                    C       C   C   C       C
            Commercial
    Animal Kennel/Day Care,
                                                                                                                       C   C   C   C   C   C   C       C
   Commercial (Indoor Only)
     Antenna, Lattice Tower                                     C       C       C
   Antenna Mounted on City-
                                    P                       P       P       P   P
         Owned Structure
    Antenna, Roof-Mounted           P                       P       C       P   C   C   C
    Antenna, Wall-Mounted           P                       P       C       P   C   C   P
               Apiary                                               P               P
            Art Gallery             P   P   P   P   P       P   P           P                      P           P       P   P   P   P   P   P   P       P
             Art Studio             P   P   P   P   P       P   P           P                      P           P       P   P   P   P   P   P   P       P
      Assisted Living Facility      C   C       C   C                                   C                              C   C   C   C   C   C   C
 ATM, Kiosk, Vending Machine                                                                                                                           P
    (Self-Service, Interactive,     P   P   P   P   P   P   P               P                      P                   P   P   P   P   P   P   P
             Outdoors)
          Auction House
  Auto, Light Truck, RV, Boat,
Trailer Dealerships (Sale, Lease,   C       C               C
              or Rent)
           Auto Auction
        Auto Body Repair                                    P
     Automotive Restoration                 P               P
Automotive Service and Repair               P               P
   Automotive Service Station
                                            P           P   P
        (Non-Mechanical)
               Aviary
             Bail Bonds
       Bakery, Commercial                   P               P                                                          P   P   P   P
      Bakery Neighborhood           P   P   P   P   P                                              P       P           P   P   P   P   P   P   P       P
          BioTech/Biolife                                                                                              P   P   P   P                   P
Blood/Plasma Donation Center        P   P   P
           Bowling Alley            P       P   P   P                                                                  P   P   P   P
             Car Wash               C   C   C   C   C       C                                                                      C
        Child Care Center           C   C   C   C   C   C                       C                          C           C   C   C   C   C   C   C   C   C
           City Building                                                    P                                      P
              City Park                                                     P   P
       Community Garden                                                     P   P
  Commercial Repair Services        P   P   P   P   P   P   P                                                          P   P   P   P   P   P   P       P
  Convenience Store with Fuel
                                    C   C   C   C   C       C                                                                      C
               Pumps
           Cosmetology              P   P   P   P   P                                              P       P           P   P   P   P   P   P   P       P
Crematory/Embalming Facility                                C
              Day Spa               C                                                              C                           C   C   C               C



                                                                                            Page 3 of 13
     Day Treatment Center                   C
         Drive-Up Window            P   P   P   P   P   P   P                                      P
   Dry Cleaning/Laundromat          P   P   P   P   P       P                                      P                                   P   P   P   P   P   P   P       P
       Dwelling, Live/Work                                                                                                                                         P
     Dwelling, Multi-Family         C           C   C                                   C          C       C       C                   C   C   C   C   C   C   C       P
     Dwelling, Single-Family                                        P               P   P                              P
       Dwelling, Townhome                                                                          C       C               P       P                               P   P
Dwelling Unit, Internal Accessory                                                   P   P
     Dwelling Unit, External
                                                                                    P   P
              Accessory
     Education, After School
                                    C   C   C   C   C               C       C   P       C   C                          C               C   C   C   C   C   C   C   C   C
              (Children)
   Education, Elementary or
                                                                        C
             Secondary
   Education, Higher (Public)                                           C
       Education, Preschool         C   C   C   C   C           C       C   P       C   C                                              C   C   C   C   C   C   C       C
       Education, Technical                                             C
Employment Agency/Temporary
                                    P       P   P   P       P                                                                          P   P   P   P   P   P   P
               Staffing
         Equestrian Facility                                        C
 Equipment Sales, Service, and
    Rental (Heavy and Farm)
           Escort Service
          Farmers Market            C   C   C   C   C           P           P   C                                                      C   C   C   C   C   C   C       C
        Financial Institution       P       P   P   P   P   P                                      P                                   P   P   P   P   P   P   P       P
           Fitness Center           P   P   P   P   P       P   P           P                      P           P                       P   P   P   P   P   P   P       P
    Food Truck/Food Trailer         P   P   P   P   P       P   P           P       P   P                                              P   P   P   P   P   P   P
 Food Processing (Large-Scale)                              P
 Food Processing (Small-Scale)      P   P   P   P   P   P   P                                                                          P   P   P   P
          Food Truck Park           P   P   P   P   P   P   P   P                                                                      P   P   P   P   P   P   P       P
    Funeral/Mortuary Home                   C
   Grooming Services (Pets)         P   P   P   P   P       P                                                                          P   P   P   P   P   P   P       P
          Haunted House                                                     P
 Home Occupation, Category I        P   P   P   P   P                               P   P          P       P       P   P   P       P   P   P   P   P   P   P   P       P
 Home Occupation, Category II       C   C       C   C                               C   C          C       C       C   C   C       C   C   C   C   C   C   C   C       C
         Homeless Shelter                                           C
  Horticulture/Produce Sales            C   C               C   C   C       P                                                          C   C   C   C   C   C   C
         Hospital, Specialty        C           C                                                                                      C   C   C   C                   C
                 Hotel              C   C   C   C   C                                                                                  C   C   C   C   C   C   C       C
       Hotel, Extended-Stay
      Impound and Tow Lot
                  Jail
  Juvenile Detention Facility
                Library                                                     P                                                  P
      Maintenance Facility,
          Vehicle/Transit
Major Monopole exceeding mix
                                    C                       C       C       C   C
           district Height




                                                                                            Page 4 of 13
 Major Monopole not exceeding
                                   P                       P       P   P   P
        max district Height
   Manufactured Home Park
      Manufacturing, Major
      Manufacturing, Minor                 P               P                                              P
         Massage Therapy           C
Minor Monopole exceeding max
                                   C                       C       C               C   C      C       C
          district Height
 Minor Monopole not exceeding
                                                       P   P       P   P   P
        max district Height
 Monopole w/ Structure >15 ft.
               Wide
               Motel
   Movie Studio/Sound Stage                                            P
             Museum                P   P   P   P   P           P       P   C                                                          P   P   P   P   P   P   P
          Nature Center                                                                                                       P
Non-Congregate Children/Family
                                                                                                                                                                  C
     Interim Housing Facility
   Non-Depository Institution
      Nursery, Commercial                  P               P       P
          Nursing Home                 C       C   C                               C                                                  C   C   C   C   C   C   C
 Office, Medical, Dental, Health
                                   P   P   P   P   P   P   P           P                      P           P                           P   P   P   P   P   P   P       P
                Care
       Office, Professional        P   P   P   P   P   P   P   P       P                      P       P   P                           P   P   P   P   P   P   P       P
           Park and Ride           C           C                                                                                      C                               C
            Parking Lot                                                P
         Parking Structure         P   P   P   P   P       P           P           P                                                  P   P   P   P   P   P   P       P
            Pawn Shop
 Permanent Supportive Housing
             Pharmacy              C   C   C   C   C       C                                  C                                       C   C   C   C   C   C   C       P
         Place of Worship          C   C   C   C   C   C   C   C               C   C                                                  C   C   C   C   C   C   C
        Portable Container         P   P   P   P   P   P   P           P       P   P   P      P       P   P   P   P   P   P   P   P
          Poultry, Urban                                           P           P   P                              P
    Precious Metal Recycling
       Printing, Large-Scale                   P       P   P                                                                          P   P   P   P
        Protective Housing                     C
       Public Utility Facility     C   C   C   C   C   C   C       C   C   C                                                          C   C   C   C   C   C   C       C
         Recording Studio                  P
        Recreation Center          C   C   C   C   C   C   C   C       P   C                  C                                       C   C   C   C   C   C   C       C
  Recycling Collection/Drop-Off
              Facility
      Rehabilitation Center
            Restaurant             P   P   P   P   P                                          P       P                               P   P   P   P   P   P   P       P
         Retail, Accessory         P   P   P   P   P   P   P   P       P                      P       P   P                           P   P   P   P   P   P   P       P
          Retail, General          P   P   P   P   P   P   P           P               P      P           P                           P   P   P   P                   P
      Retail, Neighborhood         P   P   P   P   P   P   P   P       P                      P                                       P   P   P   P   P   P   P       P
Secondhand Merchandise Dealer      P   P       P   P
   Sexually Oriented Business                          C
        Short-Term Rental                                                      P   P                          P   P                   P   P   P   P                   P



                                                                                       Page 5 of 13
    Slaughterhouse/Animal
           Processing
        Storage, Outdoor                                   P
Storage Facility, Indoor climate
                                   C                                                  C   C   C   C
           controlled
   Storage Facility, Outdoor
 Storage Facility, Warehouse                           P   P                      P
       Tattoo Shop/Parlor
         Temporary Use             C   C   C   C                   C      C
  Theater, Live Performance        C           C           P   P                      P   P   P   P               P
         Theater, Movie            C                                                  P   P   P   P
   Tobacco Specialty Retail
     Transitional Care and
          Rehabilitation
      Transitional Housing
Upholstery Shop/Tailoring Shop     P   P   P   P   P   P                              P   P   P   P   P   P   P   P




                                                                   Page 6 of 13
...
17.03.130 City Facility (CF) and City Facility (CF) Overlay district.
A. Purpose. The purpose of the City Facility (CF) and City Facility (CF) Overlay district is to provide for locations and
appropriate standards for a range of public uses conducted by governmental and specified agencies. These uses
are operated for the benefit of the community and provide basic services and essential support services for the
community.
B. Uses. No Structure, Lot, or Parcel shall be used or Developed except in accordance with the adopted Land Use
Matrix as found in this Chapter.
C. Scope. The City Facility and CF Overlay district includes all property designated as CF on the official zoning map,
as well as all dedicated public streets and Rights-of-Way. The CF Overlay reverts to the underlying zoning district
immediately preceding the zoning map amendment for the CF Overlay upon the termination of the City Use.
D. Regulations. The Development Standards, Design Standards and Building Forms in Title 17 do not apply to City
Facilities. The Community Development Director or designee shall determine, in writing, that the project has
demonstrated the following:
      1.    There is a demonstrated need for the City Facility within the community at large and it is not contrary
            to the public interest.
      2.    The City Facility is consistent with the goals and policies of the general plan, and applicable ordinances
            of the city where feasible.
      3.    The City Facility is located, planned, and developed in a manner that is not inconsistent with the
            health, safety, or general welfare of persons residing or working in the city. Including, but not limited
            to, the following:
                a. The generation of noise, noxious or offensive emissions, or other nuisances which may be
                   injurious or detrimental to the surrounding area.
                b. The availability of public services to support the City Facility, including utilities, vehicular,
                   pedestrian and public transit systems, police, fire, education, and social and health services.
                c. The adequacy of landscaping, screening and buffering, building setbacks, parking, open space, or
                   other development characteristics necessary to mitigate the impact of the City Facility on
                   neighboring properties.
E. Standards.
      1.    Outdoor Storage. Outdoor Storage regulations are as follows:
                a. Screening. Outdoor storage and storage yards must be screened from public view. Solid fencing
                   shall be installed to screen outdoor storage areas. All fencing must be at least six feet in height
                   and may not exceed the maximum height of 8 feet. Chain link and vinyl fences are prohibited.
                b. All fences shall meet the Clear View Area requirements.
                c. Barbed Wire. Fences containing strands of barbed wire, including all forms of security wire, shall
                   be prohibited.
                d. Electrified Fences. Electrified fences shall be prohibited. This provision does not prohibit an
                   "invisible" fence (wired or wireless) to contain canines with a collar receiver.


...
17.07.020 Building Form by Land Use District.


                                                        Page 7 of 13
A.     Building Forms. Only Building forms designated by the letter A in the following matrix are allowed in each
       district. All other Building forms are prohibited. This section does not apply to the City Facility and City
       Facility (CF) Overlay district.*




                                                                                                                                                                                        Indoor Climate Controlled Storage Building



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Per Development Agreement for Project-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Accessory Structure to Non-Res. Building
                                                                                                                                                       Large Format Commercial
                                                                                 Urban-Style Multi-Family

                                                                                                            Single-Story Commercial




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Specific Design
                                                      Single-Family

                                                                      Townhome




                                                                                                                                              Office
                                                                                                                                      Civic




                                                                                                                                                                                 Flex
     Commercial Corridor                                                                A                          A                   A       A              A                                     A                                            A
     Commercial Neighborhood                                                                                       A                   A                                                                                                         A
     Commercial General                                                                                            A                   A       A                                                                                                 A
     TOD & TOD-Core                                                                     A                          A                   A       A              A                   A                                                              A
     Mixed-Use                                                                          A                          A                   A       A              A                                                                                  A
     Townhome Overlay                                                   A
     Business Park                                                                                                 A                           A                                  A                                                              A
     Flex                                                                                                          A                   A       A              A                   A                                                              A
     Historic                                                                                                                          A                                                                                                         A
     Jordan River                                         A
     Open Space
     R1                                                   A                                                                            A                                                                                                         A
     Residential Multiple                                 A                             A                                              A                                                                                                         A
     Riverfront Flex/Office                                                                                                                                                       A                                                              A
     Riverfront R1                                        A
     Riverfront RM1
     Riverfront School                                                                                                                 A                                                                                                         A
     Crossing MPMU - Anchor Tenant                                                                                                                            A                                                                                  A
     Crossing MPMU - 2100 S/State St.                                                   A                          A                                                                                                                             A
     Crossing MPMU - Transit District                                                                              A                           A              A                                                                                  A
     Downtown**                                                                         A                          A                   A       A              A                                     A                                            A
     East Streetcar***                                                                  A                          A                   A                                                                                                         A
     Granite Library                                                                                                                   A                                                                                                         A
     Granite Townhome                                                   A
     Granite Lofts                                                      A
     HT Overlay                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             A
*See 17.03.130
**Excludes Station District
***See East Streetcar MPMU

B.     Building Form Does Not Determine Land Use. Regardless of Building form, all Uses carried on within a
       Building shall be limited to the Permitted Uses in the land use district in which the Building is located.


                                                         Page 8 of 13
     17.07.030 Development Standards.
     In addition to the Subdivision and platting requirements contained elsewhere in this Title, the following
     Development standards apply to all Structures*:
     A.       Yard Areas. All Development shall comply with the Setbacks, both for each Building and for the Project
     perimeter, designated for each district. All Yard areas shall be free of any Structure and shall not be used for parking,
     unless otherwise provided herein.
               1.         Setbacks.

                            Front Yard   Corner        Side Yard       Side Yard    Rear         Project          Building
                                         Side                          Combined     Yard         Perimeter        Separation
                                         Frontage
                                         Yard

Commercial Corridor         10'          10'           0               0            0

Commercial                  10'          10'           5'              12'          0
Neighborhood

Commercial General          10'          10'           0               0            0

TOD & TOD-Core              5'           5'            0               0            0

Mixed-Use                   5'           5'            5'              12'          20'

Business Park               15'          10'           0               0            0

Flex                        10'          10'           0               0            0

 Historic           and     15'          15'           15'             30'          15'
Landmark

Jordan River                30'          10'           20'             40'          20'

School                      25'          25'           25'             50'          25'

R1                          20'          12'           5'              12'          20'

Townhome Overlay            10'          10'                                                      10' to SF; 8'   20' between
                                                                                                 to non-SF        abutting
                                                                                                                  facades, 45'
                                                                                                                  on     street
                                                                                                                  radius

Residential Multiple        20'          10'           5'              12'          20'

 Riverfront MPMU -          20'          5'            5'              10'          25'
Flex/Office

Riverfront MPMU -           20'          10'           5'              10'          20'
R1

Riverfront MPMU -           10'          10'           10'             20'          20'
RM1

Riverfront MPMU -           20'          20'           20'             40'          20'
School


                                                             Page 9 of 13
Crossing MPMU -                             **           **              **           **          **
Anchor Tenant

Crossing MPMU -              **            **            **              **           **
2100 S./State St.

Crossing MPMU -                             **           **              **           **          **
Transit

Downtown                     5'            5'            0'              0'           0'

East Streetcar                              **           **              **           **          **

Granite         Lofts        8'            236ft2        0               0            12'
Townhome Units 1-
5,8-11,14-15,20-23

Granite            Lofts     8'            236ft2        8'              20'          0
Townhome           Units
6,7,12,13,
18,19,24,25

 Granite   MPMU        -     **            **            **              **           **
Library

Granite MPMU           -                    **           **              **           **          **
Townhome

HT Overlay                   **            **            **              **           **          **             **

    * This section does not apply to the City Facility and City Facility (CF) Overlay district. See 17.03.130.
    ** See Approved MPMU, Overlay District, or Development Agreement.
    *** Double Frontage Lots shall have two (2) Front Yards and no Rear Yard.
              2.           Yard Requirements and Qualifications.
                           a.       Outdoor Storage is prohibited in all Yard areas, off-Street Parking Areas, maneuvering and
                           loading areas, and site Landscaping.
                           b.      All Front and Corner Side Yard areas shall be landscaped according to the landscape
                           standards established in this Title.
                           c.        Yard areas shall not be used for parking, except for driveways or garages as required by
                           this Title.
                           d.      Fences, Courtyards, and patios are permitted in certain Yard areas in specific districts,
                           provided they meet requirements established elsewhere in this Title.
    B.        Build-to Standards. All Structures shall conform to the following Build-to Standards, as applicable*:




                                                              Page 10 of 13
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       The Crossing 2100 S./State
                                                                                                                                                       Flex (Building footprint <85K




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Granite Lofts Units 6 7 12 13
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          The Crossing Anchor Tenant
                                           Commercial Neighborhood
 Build-to
 Standar




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Riverfront Flex/Office
                Commercial Corridor




                                                                            Commercial General




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    The Crossing Transit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Residential Multiple
                                                                                                                                                                                                           Townhome Overlay
 d




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Riverfront School
                                                                                                 TOD & TOD-Core




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Street Frontage
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Riverfront RM1




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Granite Library
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        East Streetcar
                                                                                                                              Business Park




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Riverfront R1
                                                                                                                                                                                       Jordan River




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         18 19 24 25
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Downtown
                                                                                                                  Mixed-Use




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           SSLC-PD
                                                                                                                                                       s.f.)




                                                                                                                                                                                                      R1
 Min—           10                         10                              10                    5                5           15                       10                              20             20   ****               20                       20                            20              10               20                  **                           **                           **                       0'         **               0                               10                ***
 In Feet

 Max—           25                         20                              20                    15               30          20                       25                              30             25   ****               30                       25                            N/A             15               40                  **                           **                           **                       (25' to    **               5                               30                ***
 In Feet                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     transit)


* This section does not apply to the City Facility and City Facility (CF) Overlay district. See 17.03.130
** See Approved MPMU
*** See Approved SSLC-PD Accessory Structure siting regulations
**** Equal to required perimeter setback
A Structure may encroach into the Front Yard to comply with a Build-to Standard.
           C.                         Architectural Elements and Mechanical Equipment into Yard Areas.
                                      1.                             All architectural elements and mechanical equipment must be confined within the Building Lot or designated Building pad.
                                      2.                             Permitted projections of Architectural Elements and mechanical equipment into Yard areas shall comply with the Clear View requirements established in this Title.
                                      3.                             Architectural elements and mechanical equipment, specified below, may project into required Yard areas according to the standards established in the following table.

   Element                                                                                                                                    Front and Corner Side Yard                                                                                                         Side Yard                                                                                                                                 Rear Yard

   Steps, Porches, landings, stoops, and porticos                                                                                             6 feet                                                                                                                             2 feet                                                                                                                                    4 feet

   Decks > 1' above base elevation                                                                                                            6 feet                                                                                                                             2 feet                                                                                                                                    4 feet

   Eaves, cornices, and overhangs                                                                                                             3 feet                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       4 feet

   Required overhead weather protection                                                                                                       6 feet                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       4 feet

   Bay windows, cantilevered rooms, and awnings                                                                                               6 feet                                                                                                                             2 feet                                                                                                                                    4 feet

   Balconies                                                                                                                                  Shall not project into Yard areas.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           6 feet




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Page 11 of 13
     Mechanical equipment          Shall not project into Yard   2 feet                          4 feet
     and chimneys                  areas.

     Exterior    staircases   as   Shall not project into Yard areas.                            4 feet
     allowed

     Hard Surface (at-grade        Shall not project into Yard   2 feet                          17 feet
     level)                        areas, excluding the
                                   driveway.



...
17.10.190 Utilities
A.         Location. Utility facilities including, but not limited to, gas, fiber, electric power, fiber, telephone, and cable
TV, shall be located underground in new Subdivisions wherever underground location does not violate safety
standards of the particular utility. Underground service connections for water and sewer shall be installed to the
Street Property Line of each plated Lot at the expense of the Applicant, as shall adequate casings or conduits for
fiber and all other underground utilities. This section does not apply to the City Facility and City Facility (CF) Overlay
district.*
B.          Easements.
            1.       Easements shall be provided for private and municipal utilities, such Easements shall be at least
            10-feet wide along the front, side, and rear lot lines, when it does not negatively affect the location of the
            Development. The Easements shall not include those spaces occupied by an existing Building.
            2.       The width may be reduced when new Development occurs. The provided Easements shall comply
            with the location and width and as shown on the table below. The Easements shall not include those spaces
            occupied by an existing Building.

                                                                        Front   Side   Rear     Project Perimeter

     Commercial Corridor                                                10'     0'     0'

     Commercial Neighborhood                                            10'     5'     0'

     Commercial General                                                 10'     0'     0'

     TOD & TOD-Core                                                     5'      0'     0'

     Mixed-Use                                                          5'      5'     20'

     Business Park                                                      10'     0'     0'

     Flex                                                               10'     0'     0'

     Historic and Landmark                                              10'     10'    10'

     Jordan River                                                       10'     10'    10'

     School                                                             10'     10'    10'

     R1                                                                 10'     5'     10'

     Townhome Overlay                                                   10'     0'     0'       8'




                                                        Page 12 of 13
  Residential Multiple                                             10'   5'    10'

  Riverfront MPMU - Flex/Office                                    10'   5'    10'

  Riverfront MPMU - R1                                             10'   5'    10'

  Riverfront MPMU - RM1                                            10'   10'   10'

  Riverfront MPMU - School                                         10'   10'   10'

  Crossing MPMU - Anchor Tenant                                    **    **    **

  Crossing MPMU - 2100 S./State St.                                **    **    **

  Crossing MPMU - Transit                                          **    **    **

  Downtown                                                         5'    0'    0'

  East Streetcar                                                   5'    0'    0'

  Granite Lofts Townhome Units 1-5,8-11,14-15,20-23                8'    0     10'

  Granite      Lofts     Townhome     Units     6,7,12,13,18,      8'    8'    0
  19,24,25

  Granite MPMU - Library                                           **    **    **

  Granite MPMU - Townhome                                          **    **    **

  HT Overlay                                                       **    **    **

*See 17.03.130
**See Approved MPMU, Overlay District, or Development Agreement.
        3.       All easements shall be indicated on the Plat. Proper coordination shall be established by the
        Applicant between the applicable utility companies for the establishment of utility facilities and easements
        to adjoining Properties.
        4.       Where necessary to ensure proper Access and maintenance, easement widths shall be increased
        as required by the City Engineer for the type of Development proposed. Easements for water lines shall be
        a minimum of thirty feet (30') wide.




                                                   Page 13 of 13
South Salt Lake City
MODERATE INCOME HOUSING PLAN AMENDMENT
Background
In 2022 South Salt Lake adopted Moderate Income Housing Plan (MIHP) as part of the City’s
General Plan
 ◦ The City adopted a minimum of 5 strategies to comply with State requirements

 The adopted Moderate Income Housing Plan elements have been implemented and are
currently being achieved or are in-process
Update
Moderate Income Housing Plan (MIHP)
◦ Reporting moves to every 3-years
◦ Increase number of strategies in 2026
◦ Allows to access to increased state funding resources
State of Utah Housing Plan -2025
◦ Statewide Plan – due 12/31/2025
Moderate Housing Income Plan Strategies
Strategy                                              Housing Strategy                                             Status
   1       Create or allow for, and reduce regulations related to, internal detached accessory dwelling units in   Complete
           residential zones;

   2       Zone or rezone for higher density or moderate-income residential development in commercial or mixed-    Ongoing
           use zones near major transit investment corridors, commercial centers, or employment centers;


   3       Amend land use regulations to eliminate or reduce parking;                                              Ongoing

   4       Create a housing and transit reinvestment zone pursuant to Title 63N, Chapter 3, Part 6, Housing and    Complete
           Transit Reinvestment Zone Act;

   5       Develop and adopt a station area plan in accordance with Section 10-9a-403.1;                            Ongoing
                                                                                                                    (2 Plans
                                                                                                                   complete)
  Proposed
  Strategies -2025

Strategy 6 – Rezone for Densities
Necessary to Facilitate the
Production of Moderate-Income
Housing


Strategy 7 – Demonstrate
Investment in the Rehabilitation of
Existing Uninhabitable Housing
Stock into Moderate Income
Housing
Timeline
July 10, 2025 – Planning Commission Recommendation
July 23, 2025- City Council Adoption of the Two Strategies
August 1, 2025 - MIHP Report is due to Dept of Workforce
Services
    Recommendation
Option 1 Approval
Move to Forward a Recommendation to the City Council for a
Resolution to Adopt the Annual Moderate Income Housing Plan
Report
Option 2: Denial
Move to Deny for Recommendation to the City Council for a
Resolution to Adopt the Annual Moderate Income Housing Plan
Report
Option 3: Continuance
Move to table the decision to forward a recommendation to the
City Council for a resolution to adopt the annual Moderate Income
Housing Plan Report to a date certain to allow Staff time to
respond to specific inquiries or concerns raised by the Planning
Commission, or to allow the Planning Commission more time to
consider the proposal.
City Facility Overlay
SSLC Planning Commission
July 10, 2025

                           1
Overview of Proposed Amendment
 Create a City Facility Overlay District.


 This would be applied to properties that we lease, and we want the City
 Facility use on it.
 As drafted the proposed we would add this to the City Facility District
 that we just amended for the Public Works Campus. We would include a
 clause that have the Overlay expire when the lease ends.
 The first property we would apply it to is 3291 S 900 W, which we are in
 the process of leasing.
                                                                            2
Proposed Changes in Title 17




                               3
Proposed Zoning Map Changes




                              4
            City Council                         City Council
           Work Meeting                        Regular Meeting



Schedule       July 9            July 10           July 23



                           Planning Commission
                              Public Hearing




                                                                 5
General Plan Considerations
  • Land Use and Neighborhoods Goal 1 – Strategy 1: Identify areas of the City with
    appropriate infrastructure, amenities, and services to support households of
    various types and densities.
      • Analysis: This goal is met as the city facilities will be able to locate in areas that
        best serve the community in a cost effective and efficient manner.
  • Land Use and Neighborhoods Goal 3 - Strategy 13: Maintain residential, business
    and industrial areas that are vibrant and where the health and safety of all are
    protected.
      • Analysis: This amendment and zone change to establish the City Facility Overlay
        District will allow the City to provide City Facility locations throughout the City
        and appropriate standards for a range of public uses conducted by
        governmental and specified agencies to best serve and protect the health,
        safety, and welfare of the public, without having to own the property. This is
        what is being proposed at 3219 South 900 West.
                                                                                             6
Staff             Staff recommends the Planning
Recommendations   Commission forward a positive
_______________   recommendation to the City Council to
                  approve all, of the ordinance amending
                  multiple sections of Title 17 of the South
Title 17          Salt Lake City Municipal Code (“Code”) to
                  establish the City Facility Overlay District.
Amendment



                                                                  7
Planning Commission Recommendation – Title
17 Amendment
• Option 1: Approval
   • Move to forward a recommendation of approval to the City Council for the ordinance
     amending multiple sections of Title 17 of the South Salt Lake City Municipal Code (“Code”)
     to establish the City Facility Overlay District, based on the analysis and findings set forth in
     the staff report and on the record.
• Option 2: Denial
   • Move to to forward a recommendation of denial to the City Council for the ordinance
     amending multiple sections of Title 17 of the South Salt Lake City Municipal Code (“Code”)
     to establish the City Facility Overlay District, based on the finding set forth on the record.
• Option 3: Continuance
   • Move to table the recommendation to the City Council for the ordinance amending multiple
     sections of Title 17 of the South Salt Lake City Municipal Code (“Code”) to establish the City
     Facility Overlay District.

                                                                                                    8
Staff             Staff recommends the Planning
                  Commission forward a positive
Recommendations   recommendation to the City Council to
_______________   amend the zoning map for the property
                  located at 3192 South 900 West to include
                  the City Facility Overlay District based on
Zoning Map        the following Findings and Conclusions
Amendment         with the following findings of fact.




                                                                9
Planning Commission Recommendation – Zoning
Map Amendment
• Option 1: Approval
   • Move to forward a recommendation of approval to the South Salt Lake City Council to
     amend the zoning map for one parcel to include the City Facility Overlay District located at
     3291 South 900 West, based on the analysis and findings set forth in the staff report.
• Option 2: Denial
   • Move to forward a recommendation of denial to the South Salt Lake City Council to amend
     the zoning map for one parcel to include the City Facility Overlay District located at 3291
     South 900 West, based on the analysis and findings set forth on the record.
• Option 3: Continuance
   • Move to table the recommendation to the South Salt Lake City Council to amend the zoning
     map for one parcel to include the City Facility Overlay District located at 3291 South 900
     West, to a date certain to allow staff to provide information necessary to make a decision.


                                                                                                10