Planning Commission Meeting Minutes
                               Thursday, February 5, 2026
                            South Salt Lake Council Chambers
                                 220 East Morris Avenue
                                      Time: 7:00 PM

Commission Members Present:               Jeremy Carter, Chair
                                          Chad Ewell (online)
                                          Kathy Self
                                          Suzanne Slifka
                                          Mary Anna Southey
                                          Olivia Spencer

Staff Members Present:                    Tereza Bagdasarova, City Planner




                     T
                                          Brianne Brass, Deputy City Attorney
                                          Spencer Cawley, Senior City Planner
                                          Jed Shum, City Planner
                                          Eliza Ungricht, Deputy Director
                                          Jonathan Weidenhamer, Community and


Other Attendees:
                   AF                            Economic Development Director

                                          Ashley Chapman
                                          Stephanie Chou
                                          Timothy Chou
                                          Jeff _____ (online)
                                          Ben Ungricht (online)

Chair Jeremy Carter called the Planning Commission Meeting to order at 7:00 PM.
  R
PLANNING COMMISSION MEETING

Pledge of Allegiance:                     Commissioner Spencer

Motion to Approve Agenda:
D

Motion:                                   Commissioner Southey

Second:                                   Commissioner Spencer

Vote:                                     Commissioner Ewell – Yes;
                                          Commissioner Self – Yes;
                                          Commissioner Slifka – Yes;
                                          Commissioner Southey – Yes;
                                          Commissioner Spencer – Yes;
                                          Chair Carter – Yes.
South Salt Lake City Planning Commission Regular Meeting                                          2
February 5, 2026



                                              The vote was unanimous.

STAFF BUSINESS – INFORMATION ITEMS

1.      Scheduling.

Senior City Planner, Spencer Cawley, reported that Planning Commission Meetings are scheduled
to take place on the first and third Thursdays of the month. He apologized that there was not a
notification sent out about the Meeting Materials Packet availability until earlier that morning. It
is possible to show Commissioners where to access the Meeting Materials Packet so that is known
in the future.




                     T
PLANNING COMMISSION BUSINESS

1.      Approval of the January 15, 2026, Planning Commission Minutes.
        ACTION ITEMAF
Motion to APPROVE the January 15, 2026, Planning Commission Minutes:

Motion:                                       Commissioner Slifka

Second:                                       Commissioner Spencer

Vote:                                         Commissioner Ewell – Yes;
                                              Commissioner Self – Yes;
                                              Commissioner Slifka – Yes;
     R
                                              Commissioner Southey – Yes;
                                              Commissioner Spencer – Yes;
                                              Chair Carter – Yes.

                                              The vote was unanimous.
D

CONTINUING BUSINESS

1.      None.
South Salt Lake City Planning Commission Regular Meeting                                           3
February 5, 2026

NEW BUSINESS

1.     PUBLIC MEETING
       An Appeal to a Denial of a Land Use Determination for a Variance to the Minimum
       Residential Lot Width Standards as set forth in the R-1 Land Use District for a Proposed
       Detached Accessory Dwelling Unit.
       ACTION ITEM
       Applicant:    Ashley Chapman; Timothy Chou
       Address:      604 East Leland Avenue

Mr. Cawley presented the Staff Report and explained that this is an appeal of an administrative
decision. There was a variance request for property located at 604 East Leland Avenue. The
appellants are Ashley Chapman and Timothy Chou, who are seeking to overturn the Community
and Economic Development Director's decision to deny a variance to the minimum residential lot




                     T
width standards. The Planning Commission, acting as the Appeal Authority, will conduct a de
novo review of the application and the appeal. This means the Commission will look at the facts
and determine whether the decision made by the Community and Economic Development Director
was supported by substantial evidence.
                   AF
Mr. Cawley explained that the application is a request to reduce the minimum residential lot width
from the required 50 feet to approximately 45.83 feet. This reduction is requested to allow for the
construction of a detached accessory dwelling unit (“D-ADU”) in the rear yard of the property.
While accessory dwelling units (“ADU”) are permitted in the R-1 Land Use District where this is
located, ADUs are subject to specific criteria in Title 17. One of the dimensional standards is the
lot width requirement. Mr. Cawley reported that this is a typical R-1 single-family residential lot.
It totals 10,890 square feet or approximately a quarter acre. This lot was established as part of the
1913 Homefield Plat A, but was divided between 1913 and 1924. That division created the current
non-conformity, where there is less than 50 feet in width. The property to the west, 590 East Leland
     R
Avenue, used to be a part of 604 East Leland Avenue. Mr. Cawley outlined the appellant process
that has taken place.

On October 22, 2025, there was an ADU Predevelopment Application submitted. There was a
Variance Application submitted on November 5, 2025. On December 5, 2025, the Community and
Economic Development Director denied the variance and stated that the appellants did not meet
D

the burden of proof necessary to justify a variance. On December 22, 2025, the appellants
submitted a formal request for a de novo appeal hearing with the Appeal Authority. Mr. Cawley
shared an aerial image for context about the surrounding neighborhood. The area has a similar
residential development pattern.

As part of the application, the appellants provided an ALTA Survey. Through the ALTA Survey,
there were a few non-conformities found on the site. The primary dwelling, which was built around
1917, encroaches into the property to the west by approximately 1.54 feet. The detached garage,
which was constructed around 1955, encroaches into the side setback 1.4 feet. These
encroachments have limited the ability of the appellants to expand the structure for additional
living space. This is one of the reasons there was a request for an ADU review. If the lot width
issue is set aside, the proposed ADU complies with the code. It meets all of the R-1 standards for
South Salt Lake City Planning Commission Regular Meeting                                           4
February 5, 2026

height, massing, and setbacks, and it would be located approximately 120 feet from the primary
dwelling. Since the lot is so deep, the ADU would result in an 8% rear yard lot coverage. It meets
the code with the exception of the lot width requirement.

17.07.070(J)(c) – External ADU Development and Design Standards language was read, which
states: “The minimum width of any Lot or Parcel shall be 50 feet at all points along the length of
the property from the Front Property Line to the Rear Property Line.” Mr. Cawley shared a
presentation slide that includes the variance criteria, appellant argument, and Staff rebuttal
information. It outlines the standard of evidence that Staff used in making the determination to
deny the variance request.

The first criterion is that literal enforcement of the Land Use Regulations would cause an
unreasonable hardship for the applicant that is not necessary to carry out the general purpose of
the Land Use Regulations. The appellants argue that the historic width and encroachments are a




                     T
land-based hardship. However, Staff argues that because the land already supports a single-family
dwelling and a garage, there is no loss to reasonable use, and the desire for more density is self-
imposed. Additionally, the lot has sufficient area for reasonable use, though it lacks the legal lot
width for increased density.
                   AF
The second criterion is that there are special circumstances attached to the property that do not
generally apply to other properties in the same district. The appellants point out that there is a
unique combination of both the narrowness of the lot and the encroachments of the house and
garage. Staff argued that the most unique feature here is the extreme depth of the lot, which
provides ample space and is a benefit rather than a burden. Though it does not lend itself to an
ADU, there are additional benefits to having a lot of that depth. The third criterion states that
granting the variance is essential to the enjoyment of a substantial property right possessed by
other property in the same zoning district. The appellant has claimed that the denial ignores that
ADUs are a permitted accessory use in the City and argues that denying the variance results in
  R
disparate treatment, as nearby properties have multiple dwelling units. Some of those properties
are narrower than this property. The Staff analysis is that the right to an ADU is contingent upon
meeting the dimensional standards. In this case, it would be both width and area.

The fourth criterion is that the variance will not substantially affect the General Plan and will not
be contrary to the public interest. The appellant argues that the ADU is modest in size, covers only
D

8% of the rear yard, and is located 120 feet from the primary dwelling. The appellant also argues
that the 50-foot width is a fixed numerical threshold and does not determine safety or compatibility.
The Staff analysis for the criteria is that the 50-foot width ensures density separation. It also
ensures that the development pattern is maintained. The last criterion states that the spirit of the
Land Use Ordinance is observed and substantial justice is done. The appellant has stated that
denying a safe, code-compliant ADU over a discrepancy in the width of the property is looking at
form over substance. Staff maintains that the 50-foot rule is a legislative standard that must be
applied equally to all R-1 properties.

The Conclusions of Law are included in the Staff Report and were presented to the Planning
Commission. Deputy City Attorney, Brianne Brass, reported that this is a quasi-judicial function
of the Planning Commission as the Appeal Authority. There is due process provided. The appellant
South Salt Lake City Planning Commission Regular Meeting                                         5
February 5, 2026

has the opportunity to make comments and must show that the five criteria are met. The appellant
is able to share documents and statements as well as witness testimony. Additional information
about the process was shared. Ms. Brass reiterated that the appellants have the opportunity to
provide comments.

The appellants introduced themselves to the Planning Commission. It was stated that Timothy
Chou and Ashley Chapman are the owners of 604 East Leland Avenue and are present to appeal
the denial of the variance request. There is no request being made to change the zoning or increase
density beyond what the ordinance already allows. There is no request related to setbacks, height,
lot coverage, parking, or design standards. This request is narrowly focused on a single issue:
whether strict enforcement of the current 50-foot minimum lot width, as applied to a lawfully
created historic parcel with fixed physical constraints, is necessary to achieve the purpose of the
ordinance.




                     T
The property is a quarter acre and approximately 10,890 square feet, which significantly exceeds
the minimum lot area requirements. The lot width, as measured by the ALTA Survey, is 45.83
feet. The lot width was created more than a century ago, prior to annexation into South Salt Lake
City. It is a permanent historic condition of the parcel. In addition to the substandard width, the
                   AF
property contains two legal non-conforming structures: the primary dwelling that crosses the
western property line and the detached garage, which encroaches into a side setback. Mr. Chou
stated that the conditions are fixed and cannot be corrected without demolition or boundary
changes that are not reasonable or feasible. Due to the constraints, the property cannot reasonably
accommodate a meaningful internal conversion or functional expansion of the home, which would
serve as a viable ADU alternative.

Mr. Chou explained that due to the substandard historic width, the property is ineligible for an
ADU in any form, detached or attached. The proposed ADU complies with every substantive
standard intended to protect neighbors and the public. The side setbacks are met with
  R
approximately 9 feet on each side and the rear setback exceeds 20 feet. The ADU would be located
more than 120 feet from the primary dwelling. The height, massing, and lot coverage would also
be fully compliant. The rear yard coverage, including the proposed ADU and existing garage, is
less than 25%, which is well below the 50% maximum. Required parking is provided on paved
surfaces that are on-site. The site functions in the manner that the ordinance intends an ADU site
to function. The only deficiency is the numeric lot width threshold. Mr. Chou reiterated that there
D

are no functional impacts to this deficiency.

Ms. Chapman addressed the variance criteria. For the first criterion, which relates to unreasonable
hardship, the hardship in this case arises from the land itself. Strict enforcement of the 50-foot
width requirement, when combined with the historic configuration and existing non-conformities,
eliminates the only viable path to a permitted accessory residential use. A property does not need
to be rendered unusable or valueless to experience hardship. Ms. Chapman noted that when
dimensional standards prevent a reasonable use otherwise contemplated by the ordinance, a
hardship exists.

The second criterion was discussed. Ms. Chapman explained that while other lots may be narrow,
there are few, if any, that share this specific combination of conditions. These constraints are
South Salt Lake City Planning Commission Regular Meeting                                            6
February 5, 2026

cumulative, permanent, and inseparable from the land. They materially distinguish this parcel from
other narrow lots that may still retain expansion or reconfiguration options. For criterion three,
which has to do with a substantial property right, the South Salt Lake City ordinance expressly
recognizes ADUs as a legitimate accessory residential use. Denying this variance effectively
excludes this parcel from that benefit, despite the size, context, and full compliance with functional
standards. For criterion four, she noted that the proposed ADU is modest in scale, located in the
underutilized rear yard, and is intended to be owner-occupied. It does not increase traffic, noise,
or visual impacts, and it does not rely on or expand any existing non-conformities. The lot width
standard functions as a numeric proxy for livability, not as a direct measure of site functionality.
A lot that is 45.83 feet wide does not function differently from a 50-foot-wide lot when all other
performance standards are met. Granting the variance advances the City's goals of gentle infill,
housing choice, and responsible use of existing residential lots.

The fifth criterion has to do with the spirit of the ordinance. Ms. Chapman stated that the spirit of




                     T
the ordinance is to regulate outcomes, compatibility, safety, and fairness, not to impose blanket
prohibitions on historic parcels due to minor dimensional deviations. Where the intent of the
standard is fully achieved in practice, rigid adherence to a number defeats the purpose of the
ordinance. Substantial justice is served by allowing a reasonable, code-compliant use of a uniquely
                   AF
constrained property.

Mr. Chou reported that all six adjacent neighbors were notified about the proposal and the date of
appeal. There was one objection that was received, which was taken seriously. The concerns raised
had to do with construction logistics and speculative future access for maintenance. He clarified
that the proposed ADU does not rely on, encroach upon, or require access through any neighboring
property. All construction, utilities, drainage, and long-term maintenance would occur within the
property boundaries and would be subject to the City permitting, inspection, and enforcement
process.
   R
Ms. Chapman added that there is a willingness to work with the Planning Commission on
reasonable conditions, such as refining the footprint, setbacks, placement, and ADU design. This
is a narrow fact-specific request based on the historic and physical constraints of a single parcel.
Granting the variance would not undermine the zoning code or set a general precedent. It would
simply allow for a reasonable, code-compliant use, where strict dimensional enforcement serves
no public purpose. The appellants asked that the Community and Economic Development
D

Director's decision be reversed.

Chair Carter asked about the next steps in this process. Ms. Brass explained that there are proposed
Conclusions of Law and Findings of Fact included in the Staff Report. These are based on the Staff
analysis. It is now possible for the Commission to review the criteria and make a determination
based on what was presented. The Commission can determine whether the five criteria have been
met. Community and Economic Development Director, Jonathan Weidenhamer, explained that
this is not a typical public hearing. It is possible to have some back and forth with the appellants
during the review.

Chair Carter asked the Planning Commission to review the five variance criteria. He read the
language for the first criterion. Commissioner Mary Anna Southey thought it would be helpful to
South Salt Lake City Planning Commission Regular Meeting                                           7
February 5, 2026

know how many houses in the R-1 would meet the requirements. Ms. Brass read the following
language:

     •   In determining whether or not enforcement of the Land Use Ordinance would cause
         unreasonable hardship under Subsection (B)(1), the Appeal Authority may not find an
         unreasonable hardship unless the alleged hardship:
             o Is located on or associated with the property for which the variance is sought; and
             o Comes from circumstances peculiar to the property, not from conditions that are
                general to the neighborhood.

Ms. Brass explained that the focus is on this particular property and no other surrounding
properties. Commissioner Olivia Spencer asked about the 50-foot requirement. She wanted to
know if that was set by the State or South Salt Lake City. Ms. Brass clarified that Title 17 sets the
standard for ADUs.




                     T
Commissioner Suzanne Slifka recalled a discussion when ADUs were first being considered.
There was a certain percentage of homes that could utilize this, and a certain percentage that could
not. She asked what that percentage was. Ms. Brass did not recall the percentage that was
                   AF
determined at that time. Commissioner Slifka mentioned the historical aspect of the parcel and
asked if there was anything specific that should be considered in this case. Ms. Brass stated that it
could be taken into consideration for a non-conforming use or non-complying structure
application, but this is a variance.

Commissioner Chad Ewell believed the non-conformity was part of the reason for the variance
denial. Commissioner Slifka thought she saw something like that in the materials as well.
Mr. Cawley reported that the non-conformity has to do with the existing house and garage. The
conditions limit the ability for expansion and the ability to use the garage as a D-ADU. The denial
of the variance was based on the width. Chair Carter shared information about grandfathered uses,
  R
which is when a new restriction is imposed on an existing parcel. In his view, grandfathered uses
are not relevant to this request.

Chair Carter expressed concerns about the use of the word “historic” in relation to this application.
There are a lot of older dwellings in South Salt Lake City, but those dwellings are not necessarily
historic. He added that the 50-foot width requirement was established for a specific set of reasons.
D

Commissioner Southey appreciates the comment made about historic properties. She was not
thinking about it in terms of preservation, but the unusual circumstances on the lot. Over the
decades, standards and rules have changed. What was built 100 years ago would not necessarily
be approved now. She expressed support for ADUs and private property rights. However, there
are certain standards in place, and she is unable to reduce the width requirement. Commissioner
Slifka noted that during the appellant's presentation, there was a comment made about some areas
with ADUs that are under 50 feet. Ms. Chapman reported that there is a house nearby, and the lot
is approximately the same size. It is just as narrow, and there is an existing ADU on the property,
but it might have been grandfathered in.
South Salt Lake City Planning Commission Regular Meeting                                             8
February 5, 2026

Chair Carter does not believe all five criteria will be met. Ms. Brass suggested that all five criteria
be reviewed individually so there is a record of the decision made. Commissioner Slifka asked to
review the ADU Site Plan presentation slide. On the sides where there is 9 feet, she asked if that
is the minimum needed between the ADU and the property line. It was clarified that the minimum
is 5 feet. Commissioner Slifka wanted to know if all five of the criteria need to be met for the
variance, which was confirmed. Ms. Brass explained that all five of the criteria need to be met to
grant the variance.

Commissioner Ewell stated that he is unfamiliar with this process and wants to make sure the
Planning Commission is doing everything correctly. Ms. Brass informed those present that the
Appeal Authority is tasked with reviewing the information presented by the appellants and Staff.
It is possible for the Appeal Authority to determine whether the literal enforcement of the
ordinance would cause an unreasonable hardship for the applicant. She explained that the Planning
Commission needs to determine whether the City enforcing the law will cause an unreasonable




                     T
hardship for the appellants.

Chair Carter is not convinced that enforcement will cause an unreasonable hardship in this case.
Commissioner Southey agreed with that statement and pointed out that there are many lots that
                   AF
cannot have an ADU. All of the other Commissioners agreed with the comments made by Chair
Carter.

Chair Carter asked the Commission to review the second criterion about special circumstances.
Commissioner Southey believed the argument is solid, as there are special circumstances that are
not common. Commissioner Kathy Self does not see how there would be a special circumstance
in this case. Commissioner Southey explained that the special circumstance has to do with the
neighborhood.

Commissioner Southey pointed out that the inability to expand with an addition is a special factor
   R
to consider. That being said, she acknowledged that there are a lot of unusual lots in the City. Chair
Carter asked Staff to share the aerial image that was shown earlier. Discussions were had about
the location. He asked for additional Commissioner feedback on the second criterion.
Commissioner Ewell believed the non-conformity would make this a special parcel, but the lot
width does not make it unique.
D

Chair Carter asked to review the third criterion. Commissioner Southey noted that the ADU
ordinance is fairly new. It is hard to call something essential when the ADU language is still
somewhat new. It did not exist as a property right until more recently. She reiterated that there are
many properties that do not currently qualify for an ADU. Chair Carter does not believe there are
a lot of properties in the area that would be able to have an ADU, so he does not think granting a
variance is essential to the enjoyment. Commissioner Ewell and Commissioner Slifka agreed with
the comments shared.

The fourth criterion was discussed by the Planning Commission. Commissioner Southey felt there
were conflicting public interests. There is public interest in having conformity and not having
arbitrary exceptions, but there is also public interest in the sense of property rights and building
much-needed residential space. Commissioner Slifka stated that the purpose of the Appeal
South Salt Lake City Planning Commission Regular Meeting                                              9
February 5, 2026

Authority is to make sure the laws are followed. Commissioner Southey does not believe
approving the exception would result in the City being bombarded with a lot of requests for similar
exceptions. However, the Planning Commission needs to abide by the requirements. Chair Carter
stated that the General Plan and the codes are used to reach an outcome. The General Plan is the
idea, and the code is the legal language. Moving the goal posts one time might create a perception
that the requirements can be changed.

Commissioner Slifka noted that while this variance has to do with 5 feet, in the future, it could be
more than that. Commissioner Southey acknowledged the difficulty of this situation.
Commissioner Ewell stated that he is struggling with this application because he is supportive of
property rights, but there are requirements in place. Ms. Chapman stated that her understanding is
that the code would allow a variance where strict enforcement defeats the purpose. She asked if
there was an example to illustrate when a variance could be granted. She emphasized that every
variance is individualized, and this would not set a standard or precedent for other cases. Ms. Brass




                      T
believed case law would support the idea that cities have granted variances when a property right
is rendered unusable. For example, if there was a lot with no structure and no use, the law was
changed so it was not possible to build a single-family residence on that lot, and there was no way
to obtain additional land to meet the requirements. In that case, there would be an economic
                    AF
hardship that could not be overcome. Variances have generally been granted when there is no use
for the property based on the codes that are in place at that specific time.

Chair Carter reviewed the fifth criterion with the Commission. Commissioner Southey is inclined
to agree with the appellants on this item. Unfortunately, it is all five criteria need to be met for the
variance to be granted. Chair Carter agreed with those comments. Commissioner Slifka asked what
the appellants can do moving forward. Mr. Weidenhamer reported that the appellants can petition
for an ordinance change to the ADU lot width. In that case, it would be discussed by the City
Council during a Work Meeting before it was brought to the Planning Commission for a
recommendation.
   R
Additional discussions were had about ADUs in the community and the specific variance request.
Commissioner Southey recalled from previous conversations that most lots do not conform to the
ADU requirements. She wished more did and that the laws for ADUs were looser so it was possible
for more people to build them. Commissioner Slifka stated that she previously did not want every
house to have an ADU, because that would impact parking and noise. Commissioner Southey
D

pointed out that this is a block where every single house could have an ADU, and parking would
still not be a problem.

Mr. Cawley reported that there is currently a process underway with a consultant. It involves
looking at code amendments specifically related to affordable housing. The hope is to have some
data-driven decisions that can be brought back for consideration. Chair Carter stated that in this
case, there are other avenues that can be pursued. This variance request has made it possible for
the Planning Commission and Staff to receive feedback about the requirements and the impacts on
individual properties. The Appeal Authority is constrained by the code and the laws that exist. Mr.
Cawley shared the Staff recommendation. The Conclusions of Law are based on the Staff analysis
that was conducted.
South Salt Lake City Planning Commission Regular Meeting                                       10
February 5, 2026

Ms. Brass asked the Planning Commission to review the Conclusions of Law to ensure that those
conclusions are accurate based on the discussion. Chair Carter asked if there were any changes the
Commission would like to make. He had a question about Conclusion of Law #5, which references
the variance request. If he is not mistaken, the Commission disagreed with that statement.
Commissioner Southey also had issues with Conclusion of Law #2. There are special
circumstances, but a lot of different properties have special circumstances. Commissioner Self
agreed with the comment about Conclusion of Law #5, but not on the comment about Conclusion
of Law #2. Commissioner Ewell, Commissioner Slifka, and Commissioner Spencer agreed with
that statement. Chair Carter read the Conclusions of Law there is Planning Commission support to
include in the motion. Ms. Brass explained that as part of this process, there will be written
conclusions and findings drafted based on the record that was created during the meeting. That
information will be provided to the appellant.

Motion to DENY the Appeal by Ashley Chapman and Timothy Chou and Uphold the




                      T
Community and Economic Development Director’s Determination to Deny the Variance
Request to Reduce the Minimum Lot Width Requirement for the Property at 604 East
Leland Avenue from 50 feet to 45.83 feet, based on the Findings of Fact and Conclusions of
Law as enumerated on the record:
                    AF
Findings of Fact:

       1.      The Site is located at 604 East Leland Avenue and is in the R-1 Zoning District.

       2.      The property consists of the eastern 45.83 feet of Lot 14, Block 1 of Homestead
               Lot A Subdivision, and contains 0.24 acres (10,890 square feet).

       3.      The property contains a Single-Family Dwelling constructed circa 1917, a
               detached garage circa 1955, and a shed.
  R
       4.      The Single-Family Dwelling crosses the western property line, encroaching
               onto the property at 590 East Leland Avenue by 1.54 feet.

       5.      The detached garage encroaches into the side setback by 1.4 feet.
D

       6.      The Appellant proposes constructing a 995-square-foot detached ADU in the
               rear yard, approximately 120 feet from the primary dwelling, and meets the
               required side and rear setbacks.

       7.      The rear yard lot coverage, including the proposed detached ADU, is
               approximately eight percent.

       8.      The proposed ADU is compliant with all bulk, massing, height, and coverage
               standards of the R-1 District as confirmed through the Predevelopment
               Application review.
South Salt Lake City Planning Commission Regular Meeting                                11
February 5, 2026

        9.    The lot does not meet the minimum lot width standard, which is 50 feet in the
              R-1 District.

        10.   The property owner requests a variance from the minimum lot width to allow
              the construction of the Detached ADU.

        11.   To grant the requested Variance, the CED Director must find that all five
              criteria in § 17.12.010(B) are met.

        12.   The Appellant bears the burden of proving that all conditions justifying a
              Variance have been met.

        13.   On December 5, 2025, the CED Director reviewed the request and denied the




                    T
              Variance and stated, in part, that the Applicant did not meet the burden of
              proof necessary to justify granting the Variance.

        14.   On December 22, 2025, the property owner appealed the CED Director’s
              determination of denial.
                  AF
Conclusions of Law:

        1.    Literal enforcement of the Land Use Regulations for this Property does not
              cause unreasonable hardship and is not necessary to carry out the general
              purpose of the Land Use Regulations.

        2.    Special circumstances are not attached to the Property that do not generally
              apply to other properties in the same district.
  R
        3.    Granting the Variance is not essential to the enjoyment of a substantial
              property right possessed by other Properties in the same zone.

        4.    The proposal is not consistent with the General Plan and is contrary to the
              public interest.
D

        5.    The spirit of the Land Use Ordinance is observed, and substantial justice is
              not done.

        6.    The Applicant did not meet the burden that all conditions justifying a
              Variance have been met.


Motion:                                     Commissioner Self

Second:                                     Commissioner Slifka

Vote:                                       Commissioner Ewell – Yes;
South Salt Lake City Planning Commission Regular Meeting                      12
February 5, 2026

                                            Commissioner Self – Yes;
                                            Commissioner Slifka – Yes;
                                            Commissioner Southey – Yes;
                                            Commissioner Spencer – Yes;
                                            Chair Carter – Yes.

                                            The vote was unanimous.

Motion to ADJOURN the Planning Commission Meeting:

Motion:                                     Commissioner Southey

Second:                                     Commissioner Spencer




                    T
Vote:                                       Commissioner Ewell – Yes;
                                            Commissioner Self – Yes;
                                            Commissioner Slifka – Yes;
                  AF                        Commissioner Southey – Yes;
                                            Commissioner Spencer – Yes;
                                            Chair Carter – Yes.

                                            The vote was unanimous.

The Planning Commission Meeting adjourned at 8:16 PM.



                                                    For Planning Commission
  R
________________________________
Community Development
D