z TN : 7505 South Holden Street
4S Midvale, UT 84047
PADVALE Cir (801) 567-7200
ss = % www.midvalecity.org
a
MIDVALE CITY COUNCIL MEETING
AGENDA
JANUARY 19, 2021
PUBLIC NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN that the Midvale City Council will hold an electronic
meeting on the 19" day of January 2021 as follows:
Electronic City Council Meeting
This meeting will be an electronic meeting, without a physical location pursuant to Utah Code 52-4-207,
as amended by HB 5002, Mayor Robert Hale as Chair of Midvale City Council hereby makes the
determination that conducting the meeting with an anchor location presents a substantial risk to the
health and safety of those who may be present at the anchor location. This determination is based upon
the fact that the City is unable to ensure compliance with the guidelines and public health protocols
mandated by the state’s current risk phase.
As restrictions take place across the state for limiting public gatherings, the City wants to make sure
everyone interested in participating in City Council Meetings can do so. The meeting will be broadcast
L on the following links:
You Tube: https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCLDszK2kMUHuc3-bV-BBsIQ?view_as=subscriber
If you would like to provide public comments, please email your comments to Lmagness@midvale.com
or comment on Midvale City’s Facebook page prior to the completion of the public comments portion of
the meeting. You may also submit comments if the Mayor and City Council open a specific agenda item
to public comment. These comments will be read aloud in the meeting and will be part of the public
record.
6:00 PM — Dahl Conference Room
WORKSHOP
e Legislative Update [Matt Dahl, Assistant City Manager]
e Discuss Emergency Operations Plan [Julie Harvey, Emergency Manager]
7:00 PM |
REGULAR MEETING - Council Chambers
I. GENERAL BUSINESS
A. WELCOME AND PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE
B. ROLL CALL
C. Unified Police and Fire Reports
ll. PUBLIC COMMENTS
Any person wishing to comment on any item not otherwise scheduled for public hearing
on the Agenda may submit their comment via email to Lmagness@midvale.com or on
Midvale City’s Facebook page prior to the completion of this portion of the meeting. Items

City Council Meeting Agenda
Page 2
brought forward to the attention of the City Council will be turned over to staff to provide
a response outside of the City Council Meeting.
Ill. COUNCIL REPORTS
A. Councilmember Quinn Sperry
B. Councilmember Dustin Gettel
C. Councilmember Bryant Brown
D: Councilmember Heidi Robinson
E. Councilmember Paul Glover
IV. MAYOR ROBERT M. HALE REPORT
V. CITY MANAGER REPORT
Vi. DEPARTMENT REPORTS
A. Community Development/RDA Report [Nate Rockwood, Community
Development Director]
B. Administrative Services Report [Kyle Maurer, Administrative Services Director]
Vil. PUBLIC HEARINGS
A. Consider Proposed Amendments to the FY2021 General Fund and other Funds
as Necessary Kyle Maurer, Administrative Services Director]
ACTION: Consider Resolution No. 2021-R-04 A Budget Appropriation
Resolution of Midvale City, amending the budgets of the
General Fund, Capital Projects Fund, Water Fund, Sewer Fund,
Storm Water Fund, Street Lighting Fund, Sanitation Fund, Fleet
Fund, and Information Technology Fund for the Fiscal Year
ending June 30, 2021.
Vill. CONSENT AGENDA
A. Consider Minutes of January 5, 2021 [Rori Andreason, H.R. Director/City
Recorder]
B. Consider 18-Lot Final Subdivision Plat for Jordan Heights at View 78 Project
located at 752 West Bingham Junction Boulevard [Alex Murphy, Planning
Director]
C. Consider 10-Unit Final Condo Plat for Phase 1A of the Jordan Heights at View 78
Project located at 8395 South Iris Lumi Lane [Alex Murphy, Planning Director]
D. Consider 10-Unit Final Condo Plat for Phase 1B of the Jordan Heights at View 78
Project located at 741 West Sky Mirror Lane [Alex Murphy, Planning Director]
IX. ACTION ITEMS
A. Consider Resolution No. 2021-R-05 A Resolution Confirming the Mayor's
Appointment of Kyle Maurer as the Finance Director for Midvale City [Kane
Loader, City Manager] ]

City Council Meeting Agenda
Page 3
B. Consider Resolution No. 2021-R-06 Authorizing specific City employees to make
changes to the City’s Public Treasurers Investment Fund (PTIF) Account [Kyle
Maurer, Admin Services Director]
X. DISCUSSION ITEM
A. Discuss Rental License Enforcement Process Map [Nate Rockwood,
Community Development Director]
Xl. ADJOURN
In accordance with the Americans with Disabilities Act, Midvale City will make reasonable
accommodations for participation in the meeting. Request assistance by contacting the City
Recorder at 801-567-7207, providing at least three working day notice of the meeting. TTY 711
A copy of the foregoing agenda was provided to the news media by email and/or fax. The agenda
was also posted at the following locations on the date and time as posted above: City Hall Lobby,
on the City’s website at www.midvalecity.org and the State Public Notice Website at
http://pmn.utah.gov. Council Members may participate in the meeting via_ electronic
communications. Council Members’ participation via electronic communication will be broadcast
and amplified so other Council Members and all other persons present in the Council Chambers
will be able to hear or see the communication.
DATE POSTED: JANUARY 14, 2021 RORI L. ANDREASON, MMC
[ H.R. DIRECTOR/CITY RECORDER

ON: COUNCIL MEETING
1] aN RON: Minutes
s eet ay Tuesday January 19, 2021
Council Heke se
7505 South Holden Street
Midvale, Utah 84047
a
MAYOR: Mayor Robert M. Hale
COUNCIL MEMBERS: — Council Member Quinn Sperry
Council Member Dustin Gettel
Council Member Bryant Brown
Council Member Heidi Robinson
Council Member Paul Glover
STAFF: Kane Loader, City Manager; Matt Dahl, Asst. City Manager; Rori
Andreason, HR Director/City Recorder; Lisa Garner, City Attorney; Glen
Kennedy, Public Works Director; Laura Magness, Communications
Director; Kyle Maurer, Administrative Services Director; Nate Rockwood,
Community Development Director: Alex Murphy, Planning Director; Chief
Randy Thomas, UPD; Chief Brad Larson, UFA; and Jake Shepherd,
Network Administrator.
WORKSHOP |
Mayor Hale opened the meeting at 6:00 p.m.
e LEGISLATIVE UPDATE
Matt Dahl discussed the processes for the virtual Legislative Session this year, which will be
through you-tube video and zoom meetings. The number of people at the capitol will be restricted.
The League has 10 pages of bills that in some way impact cities. There are three themes he has
been seeing in bills that are out and bills that are in the pipeline. He discussed early legislative
themes including:
e Covid precautions
e Preemption of Local Government
e Housing
e Transportation and TOD
Midvale Related Legislation
e Funding for Public Safety at Homeless Resource Center
, o Increase funding for police officers at the shelter.
e HB 151 — State Infrastructure Bank Amendments
o Removes parking structures as an allowed use of funds
e State Homeless Organization (AKA Gardner Policy Institute Report Bill)

Proceedings of City Council
Meeting January 19, 2021
CRA Legislation
e SB65 Community Reinvestment Agency Amendments
o Allows for CRAs to Establish Their Own Property Tax |
e Commission on Housing Affordability Bill
o Greatly expands use of housing set aside. Possibly ties GOED funds to housing.
Development fee modifications. Housing plan requirements.
Bills of Interest
e SB61 Outdoor Advertising Amendments
o Removes or modifies local land use regulations for regarding billboards
e $SB98 Local Government Building Regulation
o Allows developers to hire private inspectors and plan reviewers. Eliminates
design standards for housing.
e HB82 Single-Family Housing Modifications
o Makes internal ADUs a permitted use in zones where ADUs are allowed,
provided the owner lives on site. Removes most land use restrictions for the
ADU (parking, inhabitants, etc.)
e HB76 Firearm Preemption Amendments
o Restates State’s preemption on firearm strictions. Removes governmental
immunity local government violates the restrictions.
e HB66 Sheriffs Amendments
o Gives primary authority to a sheriff when there is a dispute with municipal law
enforcement during a riot or civil disturbance.
e HB128 Local Accumulated Fund Balance
o Increases the fund balance of political subdivisions. :
e HB174 Municipal Instant Runoff Voting Amendments
o Amends provisions for instant runoff voting.
Resources
e City Staff
e Lobbyists —- Dave Spatafore & Ashley Spatafore
e Utah League of Cities and Towns — Meetings and Website
e Utah Legislature - Website
Chief Brad Larson said HB98 is concerning to the State Chiefs and Fire Marshals Association of
Utah. This will affect their ability to review fire plans and could mean fire inspectors would not be
reviewing the fire plans.
Kane Loader said architects and engineers are not supporting this bill. There are some bills that
are concerning that take away local authority.
e Discuss Emergency Operations Plan
Julie Harvey discussed the Emergency Operation Plan as follows:
Discussion
* Emergency Operations Plan Purpose
¢ Plan Development
* Plan Content and Organization
2

Proceedings of City Council
Meeting January 19, 2021
Emergency Operations Plan Purpose

* This plan outlines actions to be taken by Midvale in cooperation with other
agencies (Salt Lake County, State of Utah, and Federal) and private organizations
to respond to emergencies or disasters to enhance life safety, protect property,
and stabilize the incident.

Plan Development

* Review of previous Midvale EOP and other local municipality plans.

* Review of current Federal guidance on emergency operations planning;
Comprehensive Preparedness Guide (CPG) 101: Developing and Maintaining
Emergency Operations Plans. |

* Research Midvale capabilities.

* Review and utilize recently completed multijurisdictional 2019 Salt Lake County
Hazard Mitigation Plan.

* Review of draft plan by Midvale staff.

* Present to the Midvale City Council for review prior to adoption.

Plan Contents and Organization:

e This plan consists of three parts; |, the basic plan, Part II, functional annexes; and,
Part Ill, hazard annexes. |

e Part|: Basic Plan

o The basic plan provides an overview of Midvale’s approach to emergency

L operations. It identifies emergency response policies, describes the
response organization, and assigns tasks within Midvale. It also identifies
external organizations that have responsibilities and duties during response
operations. It discusses the concept of operations; overall operational
concepts, structures, and command and control processes Midvale uses to
manage disaster, emergency, or crisis events.

e Part Il: Functional Annexes.

o The functional annexes outline and highlight key functional area operations
such as mass care and damage assessment. The annexes provide general
oversight and guidance to perform the specific function.

e Part Ill: Hazard Annexes.

o The hazard annexes outline the primary hazards that Midvale faces such
as severe weather, earthquakes, and wildfires. It provides specific hazard
information that is useful to when responding a particular event. The hazard
annexes also provide information on what functional annexes may be
especially critical in the response.

Emergency Operations Plan Contents

e The content requirements outlined in CPG 101: Developing and Maintaining
Emergency Operations Plans are complied with in the basic plan.

e Part 1: Basic Plan

1 o 1.1 Introductory Material.

o 1.2 Purpose, Scope, Situation Overview, and Assumptions.

3

Proceedings of City Council
Meeting January 19, 2021
o 1.3 Concept of Operations
o 1.4 Organization and Assignment of Responsibilities.
o 1.5 Direction, Control, and Coordination.
o 1.6 Information Collection, Analysis, and Dissemination.
o 1.7 Communications.
o 1.8 Administration, Finance, and Logistics.
o 1.9 Plan Development and Maintenance.
o 1.10 Authorities and References.

e The functional annexes are individual chapters that focus on missions (e.g.,
communications, damage assessment). These annexes describe the actions,
roles, and responsibilities of participating organizations. Functional annexes
address general strategies used for any emergency.

e Part Il: Functional Annexes

o 2.1 Direction, Control, and Coordination.

o 2.2 Communications.

o 2.3 Transportation.

o 2.4 Public Information, Alert, and Warning.

o 2.5 Mass Care.

o 2.6 Evacuation.

o 2.7 Damage Survey and Assessment.

o 2.8 Resource Management, Mutual Aid, and Logistics.
o 2.9 Debris Management.

e The functional annexes are individual chapters that focus on hazards identified for
Midvale in the 2019 Salt Lake County Hazard Mitigation Plan Jurisdictional Annex:
Midvale. These annexes describe emergency response strategies that apply to a
specific hazard.

e Part Ill: Hazard Annexes.

o 3.1 Avalanche and Landslide Annex.

o 3.2 Dams Annex.

o 3.3 Earthquake Annex.

o 3.4 Extreme Weather Annex.

o 3.5 Flood Annex.

o 3.6 Hazardous Material Release and Oil or Fuel Spill Annex.

o 3.7 Terrorism and Civil Disturbance Annex.

o 3.8 Transportation Accident (Vehicle, Rail, Aircraft) Annex.

o 3.9 Wildfire Annex.
Julie Harvey asked the Council to review the plan and she will bring back to next city
council meeting for adoption.
Mayor Robert Hale called the business meeting to order at 7:00 p.m.
Mayor Robert Hale said this meeting will be an electronic meeting, without a physical
location pursuant to Utah Code 52-4-207, as amended by HB 5002. I, Mayor Hale, Chair
of Midvale City Council, hereby make the determination that conducting the meeting with
an anchor location presents a substantial risk to the health and safety of those who may |
be present at the anchor location. This determination is based upon the fact that the City

4

Proceedings of City Council
Meeting January 19, 2021
is unable to ensure compliance with the guidelines and public health protocols mandated
lj by the state’s current risk phase.
Mayor Hale said this is the portion of the agenda that allows any person to express ideas,
concerns, comments, or issues. If you would like to comment on a Public Hearing item,
you will be allotted time during the Public Hearings portion of the meeting.
Email your comments to Laura Magness at Lmagness@midvale.com.
When commenting, please:
e Limit your comments to 400 words (which is the equivalent of 3 minutes)
e Include your first and last name >
e Include your city of residence (this is optional) and
e Include the name of the Agenda item
City staff will only read into the record the equivalent of three minutes. So, please be
concise with your statements.
I. GENERAL BUSINESS
A. WELCOME AND PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE
B. ROLL CALL - Council Members Heidi Robinson, Dustin Gettel, Bryant
| Brown, and Quinn Sperry, and Paul Glover were present at roll call.
C. UNIFIED POLICE & UNIFIED FIRE DEPARTMENT REPORTS
Chief Randy Thomas thanked Council Member Bryant Brown for the update on the Civil
Unrest Plan. He attended a debrief Sunday evening to discuss the plan. A tribute was
offered in honor of Officer Doug Barney that was killed in the line of duty on a call for a
simple hit and run. With any calls received, officers don’t really know what it will entail
until they arrive on scene. He reported on the congestion northbound on State Street due
to I-15 construction getting carried over to State Street. He thanked Glen Kennedy for his
help with replacing a pedestrian sign. He also thanked Julie Harvey for her presentation
on the Emergency Operations Plan. He thanked United Fire for the work on the fire over
the weekend. He said safe Cam stickers are going out to commercial and residential
areas, and they are currently working on the website for the safe cam stickers to be
distributed.
Council Member Dustin Gettel asked about the speed concerns on 700 West and Ivy.
Chief Thomas said he is aware of the concerns in that area and are watching the speed
and traffic volume.
Chief Brad Larson thanked Unified Police for the assistance they provided to Unified Fire
with the fire at Union Center over the weekend. He thanked Glen Kennedy for assisting
them with water supply for the fire. The fire at 900 East 7200 South, at the Union Center
was tragic. It had a big impact on the building and business owners and their family
5

Proceedings of City Council

Meeting January 19, 2021

members. The crew had a hard time locating the fire because there was so much smoke.
The heat was so intense, and the roof structure was so unstable that they had to pull the
crew out of the building. The damage was due to smoke and water. The first and second
floor was a total loss. They are trying to pinpoint the cause of the fire and continuing
investigations. The owner of building would like to reconstruct the building. Since
December 1%t UFA is averaging 5.9 employees out with COVID-19 daily. They are
currently receiving vaccinations and a week away from getting the second round of
vaccinations. They have been doing good maintaining coverage with COVID-19 cases.
They have mandatory 24 hour shifts during this time. He said they are tracking over 30
bills at the legislation. Station 125 has finished the hazmat study, and the design has
moved into the schematic phase.

Council Member Dustin Gettel asked if the building with the fire is a total loss?

Chief Larson said the main building will probably be gutted and rebuilt. The south building
has quite a bit of water damage.

Mayor Hale said UFA and UPD handled the incident very well and thanked the first
responders. There were no injuries or deaths.

ll. PUBLIC COMMENTS

There was no one who desired to speak.

lil. COUNCIL REPORTS ]

A. Council Member Quinn Sperry — expressed gratitude to UFA and their
response on the fire. He thanked Glen Kennedy for responding to an issue for one of the
residents. He reported that a property on 900 East by Hillcrest High School has people
living in RV’s and has multiple vehicles The condition of the property is very poor.

Matt Dahl said that Code Enforcement is currently looking into that.

B. Council Member Dustin Gettel — expressed gratitude for fire and police.
Also thanked Kane Loader and Matt Dahl who acted quickly on a rooster that was running
free range in his neighborhood. He said there have been dark days in the last year. He
wanted to recognize our governing body who stands for the pledge of allegiance at every
council meeting. He encouraged everyone to remember the words of the pledge of
allegiance and look forward to a brighter year.

C. Council Member Bryant Brown — expressed gratitude to the police and
fire. He said he appreciates Chief Thomas and the great leader he is. He is very
responsive. He said the townhomes on Center Street have a lot of dog feces on the
sidewalks. It needs to be cleaned up. He asked what the cones were on Center Street?
They are very distractive.

D. Council Member Heidi Robinson — expressed gratitude for emergency ]
services. She thanked Matt Dahl for talking with her about a building she had concerns

6

Proceedings of City Council
Meeting January 19, 2021
with. She asked staff to find a better way to notify the council on items; email doesn’t
[ seem to be the best way.

E, Council Member Paul Glover — also agreed with expressing appreciation
for the police and fire.
IV. MAYOR REPORT
Mayor Robert Hale — said he needs a statement of support from the Mayor and City
Council to go to the Tax Commission in support of financing the homeless shelter. Station
125 update - the old station was evaluated, and the new station will eventually house two
companies. The building is in the schematic stage right now. The bond was passed by
the board that day with a public hearing scheduled for February 16". They are looking to
close on the bond on the last day of March. This bond will construct five new stations with
Midvale’s station being the largest of the five. The City should start to see some action in
April. In the USFA meeting, they had a presentation on the Main Street Area Plan by
Cody Hill who did a great job. He said he received the COVID-19 vaccination that day
and had no side effects. He is volunteering in Sandy to help with vaccinations. He said
there may be some delays in getting the second dose. They are developing a waiting list
for the vaccines. Citizens that do not have computers can contact aging services at Salt
Lake County to help with appointments and transportation for the shots. Salt Lake County
is looking for volunteers for April, May, and June to help get the vaccinations out.
¥, CITY MANAGER REPORT
Kane Loader expressed his appreciation to the police and fire who responded to the fire
over the weekend. Responders did an excellent job with the incident. He also thanked
Public Works for their support in assisting the first responders. He sent out a report on
Utopia. Overall, we are 28% ratio of commercial subscribers and 33% ratio of residential
subscribers. Midvale is nearing a 21% take rate. The City should start seeing the payoff
soon.
Vi. DEPARTMENT REPORTS

A. COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT/RDA REPORT
Nate Rockwood said he was doing a presentation for the school board that evening. He
and Cody Hill presented the Main Street CRA to the UFA this morning and the board
approved. In two weeks, he will bring it back for RDA Board approval on the development
agreement. The School District requires an independent consultant for the CRA Main
Street Plan. They are waiting for the Salt Lake County on hearing for the CRA. They
should have that meeting by the end of the month. The Sunset Garden Project on Fort
Union was approved. They will begin construction this upcoming summer.

B. ADMINISTRATIVE SERIVCES REPORT
Kyle Maurer reported as follows: |
Justice Court

e Updated Pandemic Administrative Order December 315 (Utah Judiciary).
7

Proceedings of City Council
Meeting January 19, 2021
o Major change — Judge Vo-Duc will need approval for in-person hearings
from the presiding judge. ]
o In-person bench trials moved to video hearings.
e KSL article — State Court Clerks
o Transition to online hearings — Difficult for state Court Clerks — Playing part
of
IT Specialists.”
o Jury trials remain on pause — Backlog of cases.
o Increased workload due to covering employees.
o Administrative Services Director working closely with Court Administrator to
ensure workload in reasonable.
Lisa Garner said the court staff is doing very well and deserve a pat on the back.
Kyle Maurer said the Court Administrator is very diverse in all areas of the court and has
been able to assist the court clerks.
Information Technology
e New phone system — Live December 18"
e Electronic signature software — Live
e Plea in abeyance automation — Continued programming work by consultant.
e System needs assessment — RFI’s (Request for information) have been sent.
e OnBase (document management) upgrades. |
e GRAMA redaction software — Starting in next couple of weeks. ,
e Public Works cameras installed.
Utility Billing
e Midvale Journal article — Understanding utility bill
e December 2020 Utility Billing Dashboard
e Other changes:
o Intermediate to long term
fo) Policies and procedures document
fe) Draft completed.
o Examination of department workload
o Meter replacement program
e City Treasurer to work on program proposal
o Water bill redesign
o Bill payment portal investigation
e Meetings with potential vendors; determining criteria for RFP and if
financially feasible.
Utility Billing have billed a few more bills in December due to growth.
Finance
e Government Finance Officers Association — Distinguished Budget Presentation
Award
o Award program started in 1984.
8

Proceedings of City Council
Meeting January 19, 2021
7 o Encourages state & local governments to prepare high-quality budget
documents and encourage transparency.
. o Over 1,600 governments have received the award (compared to 4,300 for
CAFR program).
o 28 Utah awards-2019
o First award for Midvale City.
e Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (CAFR) completed.
o Submitted to the Government Finance Officers Association for Certificate of
Achievement for Excellence in Financial Reporting program.
o City has received award 4 times in the past.
o Monthly budget versus actual report and quarterly report — This week.
o Budget worksheets sent to departments.
Budget Retreat
Possible In-Person Retreat
e Dahl conference room
e Limit attendees — City Council, “essential” department staff.
o Additional attendees via Zoom. —
e Move information budget items (such as FY2021 budget update, revenue
projections etc.,) to City Council workshops.
e Leave retreat for items City Council needs to discuss/collaborate
e % day retreat.
7 e Move budget retreat to April
e More data on vaccine distribution/delivery
e Gauge where current COVID-19 case counts are at.
e More time to discuss informational items in City Council workshop/discussion.
e April 17'° (Wednesday) or 8" (Thursday)?
Council Member Bryant Brown does not want to do a zoom meeting. He said he feels that
an in-person retreat could be conducted safely.
Council Members Heidi Robinson and Dustin Gettel agreed with Council Member Bryant
Brown. Council Member Dustin Gettel said he likes moving retreat to April on a Thursday.
Council Members Paul Glover and Quinn Sperry also agreed. Council Member Quinn
Sperry said April 7" and 8" are during spring break.
MOTION: Council Member Paul Glover MOVED to open the public hearing. The
motion was SECONDED by Council Member Dustin Gettel. Mayor Hale
called for discussion on the motion. There being none, he called for a
vote. The motion passed unanimously.
f Vil. PUBLIC HEARING
: A. CONSIDER RESOLUTION NO. 2021-R-04 APPROVING’ THE
L AMENDMENTS TO THE FY2021 GENERAL FUND AND OTHER FUNDS
AS NECESSARY
9

Proceedings of City Council

Meeting January 19, 2021

Kyle Maurer said staff proposes amendments to the fiscal year 2021 budget for the

General Fund, Capital Projects Fund, Water Fund, Sewer Fund, Storm Water Fund,

Street Lighting Fund, Sanitation Fund, Fleet, Fund, and Information Technology Fund.

General Fund

Revenue and Expense Budget Adjustments ($159, 782) — Staff is recommending approval

of merit, career ladder, and hazard pay adjustments of $135,763 (funds for these

adjustments was placed in budgetary fund balance during the first budget opening). In

addition, $24,019 of CARES Act project adjustments are recommended for approval. The

City’s first allocation of CARES Act funding was received on June 30, 2020; after

consultation with the City’s external auditors, this was placed into deferred revenue and

needs to be recognized as revenue in fiscal year 2021.

Capital Projects Fund

Revenue and Expense Budget Adjustments ($95,806) — The City is recommending

approval of CARES Act project adjustments of $21,909. This includes the City Hall

marquee sign ($56,451) and the Disc Golf Course project and Public Works cameras

($34,542). Fund balance of $73,897 is proposed to be used to cover additional costs

related to repaving the Community Center parking lot.

Water Fund

Revenue and Expense Budget Adjustments ($5,190,740) — The majority of this

amendment is to recognize the sale and subsequent refunding of the 2020 Water, Sewer,

and Storm Water Refunding Bonds. This will have an overall zero effect on the fund. In

addition, an increase of $390,046 to water user charges is proposed to fund merit

increases, position reclassification, hazard pay, and the previously approved Jordan

Valley Water Conservancy District pipeline project.

Sewer Fund

Revenue and Expense Budget Adjustments ($9,358) — This proposed amendment is to

fund the Citywide merit increase and hazard pay.

Storm Water Fund

Revenue and Expense Budget Adjustments ($3,320,671) — The majority of this proposed

amendment is to recognize bond proceeds from the 2020 Water, Sewer, and Storm Water

Refunding Bonds. In addition, debt service savings are proposed to be used to fund the

City-wide merit increase, career ladder changes, and hazard pay.

Street Lighting Fund

Revenue and Expense Budget Adjustments ($290) — A small increase in streetlight user

fee revenue is proposed to cover the City-wide merit increase.

Sanitation Fund

Revenue and Expense Budget Adjustments ($806) — An increase in the budget for

dumpster rental fees is proposed to cover the City-wide merit increase and a position .

reclassification. |
10

Proceedings of City Council
Meeting January 19, 2021
f Fleet Fund
Revenue and Expense Budget Adjustments ($6,031) — An increase in department user
L charges is proposed to cover the City-wide merit and career ladder increases, along with
hazard pay.
Information Technology Fund
Revenue and Expense Budget Adjustments ($9,447) — An increase of $9,447 (revenue
transferred from the General Fund) is proposed to fund hardware and software CARES
Act projects.
PLAN COMPLIANCE: N/A
FISCAL IMPACT:
General Fund — Increase in budgeted revenues and expenses $159,782.
Capital Projects Fund — Increase in budgeted revenues and expenses $95,806.
Water Fund — Increase in budgeted revenues and expenses $5,190,740.
Sewer Fund — Increase in budgeted revenues and expenses $9,358.
Storm Water Fund — Increase in budgeted revenues and expenses $3,320,671.
Street Lighting Fund — Increase in budgeted revenues and expenses $290.
Sanitation Fund — Increase in budgeted revenues and expenses $806.
Fleet Fund — Increase in budgeted revenues and expenses $6,031.
Information Technology — Increase in budgeted revenues and expenses $9,447.
STAFF’S RECOMMENDATION AND MOTION:
L. Staff recommends approval of Resolution 2021-R-04.
Mayor Hale opened the hearing to public comment. There was no one who desired to
speak.
Council Member Dustin Gettel asked if the electronic signature program could be
implemented with the council members.
Staff said it can and will be implemented.
MOTION: Council Member Quinn Sperry MOVED to close the public hearing. The
motion was SECONDED by Council Member Paul Glover. Mayor Hale
called for discussion on the motion. There being none, he called for a
vote. The motion passed unanimously.
ACTION: CONSIDER RESOLUTION NO. 2021-R-04 APPROVING THE
AMENDMENTS TO THE FY2021 GENERAL FUND AND OTHER
FUNDS AS NECESSARY
MOTION: Council Member Dustin Gettel MOVED to approve Resolution No.
2021-R-04, a budget appropriation resolution amending the General
Fund, Capital Projects Fund, Water Fund, Sewer Fund, Storm Water
Fund, Street Lighting Fund, Sanitation Fund, Fleet Fund, and
11

Proceedings of City Council
Meeting January 19, 2021
Information Technology Fund of Midvale City for the fiscal year ending ’
June 30, 2021. The motion was SECONDED by Council Member Heidi )
Robinson. Mayor Hale called for discussion on the motion. There
being none, he called for a roll call vote. The voting was as follows: |
Council Member Quinn Sperry Aye
Council Member Paul Glover Aye
Council Member Heidi Robinson Aye
Council Member Bryant Brown Aye
Council Member Dustin Gettel Aye
The motion passed unanimously.
Vill. CONSENT AGENDA
A. CONSIDER MINUTES OF JANUARY 5, 2021
B. CONSIDER 18-UNIT FINAL SUBDIVISION PLAT FOR JORDAN
HEIGHTS AT VIEW 78 PROJECT LOCATED AT 752 WEST BINGHAM
JUNCTION BOULEVARD
C. CONSIDER 10-LOT FINAL CONDO PLAT FOR PHASE 1A OF THE
JORDAN HEIGHTS AT VIEW 78 PROJECT LOCATED AT 8395 SOUTH
IRIS LUMI LANE
D. CONSIDER 10-UNIT FINAL CONDO PLAT FOR PHASE 1B OF THE |
JORDAN HEIGHTS AT VIEW 78 PROJECT LOCATED AT 741 WEST J
SKY MIRROR LANE
MOTION: Council Member Paul Glover MOVED to approve the Consent Agenda.
The motion was SECONDED by Council Member Quinn Sperry. Mayor
Hale called for discussion on the motion.
Council Member Dustin Gettel said the Council approved the View 78 project with the
costs of the units to be $250,000. Their sign has changed the price to the $300,000 range.
He said this is very disappointing news.
Mayor Hale called for a roll call vote. The voting was as follows:
Council Member Quinn Sperry Aye
Council Member Paul Glover Aye
Council Member Heidi Robinson Aye
Council Member Bryant Brown Aye
Council Member Dustin Gettel Aye
The motion passed unanimously.
IX. ACTION ITEMS ,
A. CONSIDER RESOLUTION NO. 2021-05 APPOINTING KYLE MAURER
AS FINANCE DIRECTOR
12

Proceedings of City Council

Meeting January 19, 2021

Kane Loader said the City’s former Finance Director, Dalin Hackett, left employment with

the City on January 8, 2021. Utah Code Annotated section 10-6-157(1) allows for the

| creation of a Director of Finance position to perform the financial duties and
responsibilities assigned in state code to the City Recorder or Town Clerk. In addition,

Midvale City Code section 3.20.040 states that the Mayor, with the advice and consent of

the City Council, shall appoint a City Finance Director.

The Administrative Services Director would like to change the current Finance Director

position within the City to an Assistant Finance Director position. The Administrative

Services Director would assume the statutory responsibilities of the Finance Director, with

the Assistant Finance Director and City Treasurer heavily involved in carrying out these

responsibilities. This will allow the Administrative Services Director greater oversight of
the Finance and Utility Billing functions, and “flatten” the organizational chart within

Finance. In addition to a flatter organizational structure, personnel savings will be

proposed to be reallocated to modernize the City’s budget and Comprehensive Annual

Financial Report preparation with software and fund a professional services budget for

the Finance division. The main use of this professional services budget would be to fund

independent internal audits of City processes and functions. The Administrative Services

Director presented this proposal to the Audit Committee on January 5, 2021 and received

support. |

The Council wanted to make sure Kyle Maurer was okay with taking on more of this

| workload.

Kyle Maurer said he was fine with it.

MOTION: Council Member Quinn Sperry MOVED to Suspend the Rules and
Approve Resolution No. 2021-R-05 confirming the Mayor’s
appointment of Kyle Maurer as the Finance Director for Midvale City.
The motion was SECONDED by Council Member Paul Glover. Mayor
Hale called for discussion on the motion. There being none, he called
for a roll call vote. The voting was as follows:

Council Member Quinn Sperry Aye
Council Member Paul Glover Aye
Council Member Heidi Robinson Aye
Council Member Bryant Brown Aye
Council Member Dustin Gettel Aye
The motion passed unanimously.
B. CONSIDER RESOLUTION NO. 2021-R-06 AUTHORIZING SPECIFIC
CITY EMPLOYEES TO MAKE CHANGES TO THE CITY’S PUBLIC
TREASURES INVESTMENT FUND (PTIF) ACCOUNT
Kyle Maurer said on June 19, 2018, the City Council passed Resolution 2018-R-33,
authorizing Brandon Smith (former City Treasurer) and Dalin Hackett (former Finance
Director) the ability to make changes to the City’s Public Treasurers Investment Fund

(PTIF) account. Since that time, both individuals are no longer employed with the City.

i2

Proceedings of City Council
Meeting January 19, 2021
Passing the resolution will allow David Stenquist, the current City Treasurer, and Kyle
Maurer, the Administrative Services Director, the ability to make changes to the City’s }
PTIF accounts. These authorized changes include the following:
e Add or delete user access. —
e Make PTIF transactions.
e Add or delete bank accounts tied to PTIF accounts.
e Open or close PTIF accounts.
e Complete any forms on behalf of the City in relation to the PTIF.
The State Treasurer requires at least two individuals be authorized.
PLAN COMPLIANCE: N/A
FISCAL IMPACT:
None.
MOTION: Council Member Dustin Gettel MOVED to Approve Resolution No.
2021-R-06 authorizing David Stenquist, City Treasurer, and Kyle
Maurer, Administrative Services Director, to make changes to the
City’s Public Treasures Investment Fund (PTIF) account. The motion
was SECONDED by Council Member Heidi Robinson. Mayor Hale
called for discussion on the motion. There being none, he called for a
roll call vote. The voting was as follows:
Council Member Quinn Sperry Aye
Council Member Paul Glover Aye
Council Member Heidi Robinson Aye
Council Member Bryant Brown Aye
Council Member Dustin Gettel Aye
The motion passed unanimously.
X. DISCUSSION ITEMS
A. LONG-TERM RENTALS DISCUSSION
Nate Rockwood said on November 19th, 2019, Midvale City (“the City”) approved the City
Housing Plan that outlines several measures that the City must take in order to meet its
housing goals. One of the goals is to “Maintain and improve the quality of existing housing
stock in Midvale and revitalize the physical and social fabric of neighborhoods that are in
decline”, this involves ensuring the proper licensing of all rental units within the City. After
reviewing parcel data provided by the Salt Lake County Parcel Assessor’s Office (‘the
County”) it has become apparent that there are a large number of properties that qualify
as rentals that are not properly licensed.
As part of Staffs efforts to rectify this problem and to support our Housing Plan, the
process for enforcing City Code on unlicensed rentals has been examined and
documented as the Rental License Enforcement Process Map. The purpose of the
Process Map is to aide Staff through their efforts to bring all of the non-licensed rental
properties into compliance. 1
14

Proceedings of City Council
Meeting January 19, 2021
The Process Map contains five main sections detailing how to track the non-compliance
cases. Those sections entail what the proper warning letter process should contain, how
the Code Enforcement process works in relation to these cases, where to find information
if the property owner appeals the infraction, and information about possible prosecution
options. The Process Map also lists all relevant City Code that can aide current or future
Staff managing these cases.
The Process Map is intended to work in conjunction with the Good Landlord Program.
The Good Landlord Program's goals includes educating landlords on how to provide the
best quality units for renters and for other residents in the neighborhood. Enforcing the
business license rental regulations on all rentals provides incentives to landlords of single-
family units to participate in the program.
Given the number of properties that have been deemed suspect due to the County data,
Staff deems it necessary to present the Process Map and discuss the situation with
Council prior to beginning large-scale enforcement. Staff is seeking any guidance Council
would like to propose prior to beginning the process of bringing the properties into
compliance. |
Rental License Enforcement Process Map >
e Tracking
e Warning
| e Enforcement
e Hearing
e Prosecution
Intro |
This process map is designed to highlight the five phases of action that occur when a
rental property is non-compliant with City Code. At any point in the process the property
may come into compliance and exit the process.
Tracking
When City Staff receive information that a property is being used as a rental property
without following proper City regulations the first phase of action begins. The tracking
phase involves adding the property to the tracking spreadsheet and compiling data on the
property. When a new case is being tracked a notice should be sent to all appropriate
City Staff. The data tracked in the spreadsheet should include:
- Property owner contact information.
- Source of information of noncompliance (this can include a complaint made by a
neighbor, complaint made by a tenant, owner information provided by the county parcel
¢ assessor, and others.)
L - A list of current and relevant previous violations (this can include zone violations, code
enforcement violations, building violation, and others.)
15

Proceedings of City Council

Meeting January 19, 2021

The tracking sheet should be regularly update throughout the process with notes on

progress. This will aid in keeping the various cases organized and provide detail (if

necessary) in later stages of the process.

Warning

Once the property has been entered into the tracking spreadsheet the warning phase can

begin. The warning phase is the first ‘official’ contact by the City Code Enforcement

Officer. The warning can come in the form of an in-person conversation with the Code

Enforcement Officer or a mailed Certified Letter. This letter should include all items listed

in City Code 7.03.20 “Notice of Violation.”

After receiving the warning, the property owner has a ten-day grace period to contact the

City and begin the process of coming into compliance.

Enforcement

If there is no response after the grace period, the enforcement phase begins. The

enforcement phase follows the procedures outlined in the City Code 7.3 “Administrative

Abatement’ with specific regard to section 7.3.100 “Civil Fees” which states:

A. If a responsible person fails to correct a violation by the correction date listed in a
notice of violation or in an administrative enforcement order, civil fees shall be
owed to the city as follows: :
is For any violation set forth on Table 1—Civil Fees, the civil fee shall be as

shown on the table.

2. For a violation of Chapter 5.32, Tenant Application Fees, the civil fee shall
be one hundred dollars for each initial violation and two hundred dollars for
each additional violation.

3. For any other violation not included on Table 1—Civil Fees, the civil fee for
each violation shall be thirty dollars plus an additional civil fee of thirty
dollars for each and every subsequent day of violation for each separate
violation until the violation is corrected. The maximum amount of civil fees
accruable under subsection (A)(2) of this section for each violation listed in
a notice of violation or in an administrative enforcement order shall be six
hundred dollars.

B. Payment of any civil fee shall not excuse any failure to correct a violation or the
reoccurrence of the violation, nor shall it bar further enforcement action by the city.

ih Civil fees shall be paid to the Midvale City treasurer.

Table 1 outlines the fees for “No business license” as: |

* civil fee per day/first offence - $30
16

Proceedings of City Council
Meeting January 19, 2021
* maximum civil fee/first offence - $1,500
* civil fee per day/second offence- $60
* maximum civil fee/second offence- $3,000
Hearing
lf during the enforcement process the property owner wishes to appeal the violations, the
hearing phase begins. The hearing phase follows the procedures outlined in City Code
7.2 “Administrative Enforcement Hearing Procedures’.
Prosecution
In situations where a property is repeatedly in violation, when City Staff has exhausted all
other means of enforcement, and/or if a particular case warrants prosecution prior to
exhausting all other means (as determined by the Community Development Director and
City Prosecutor), the Prosecution phase begins. The prosecution of noncompliant
properties shall be consistent with City Code 5.02.150 “Penalties”
which states: |
A. The provisions of this title may, at the sole discretion of Midvale City, be enforced
through the provisions of Title 7, Midvale City Administrative Code Enforcement
Program. |
B. Any violations of this title shall be a class B misdemeanor.
| C. Where applicable, each day of noncompliance shall constitute a separate violation.
(Ord. 2015-10 § 1 (Exh. A) (part): Ord. 10/28/20030-12 (part), 2003: Ord. 12-09-
97 (part), 1997)
Applicable Code
This Process Map was made by combining City Code with the best practices of the
Community Development Team. For additional City Code information about rentals,
business licenses, or enforcement please see the following:
Title 5 “Business Taxes, Licenses, and Regulation”
¢ 5.02 “Business Licenses Generally” |
* 5.04 “Denial, Suspension, or Revocation of a License”
« 5.08.020 “Business License Fee Schedule” ©
Title 7 “Midvale City Administrative Code Enforcement Program”
* 7.01 “Administrative Enforcement Program”
* 7.02 “Administrative Enforcement Hearing Procedures”
* 7.03 “Administrative Abatement” |
* 7.05 “Administrative Citations”
Title 8 “Health and Safety”
* 8.01A “Noise Control”
* 8.02 “Property Maintenance”
17

Proceedings of City Council
Meeting January 19, 2021
* 8.05 “Code Enforcement”
Title 17 “Zoning” |
° 17.1 “General Provisions”
° 17.3 “Administration and Enforcement
* 17.5 “Appeal Authority”
Council Member Dustin Gettel feels that resident landlords will be upset and get offended.
He said he would like to see a report of residents who are currently participating in the
good landlord program.
Council Member Paul Glover said he likes having this program and does believe that it is
helping with better renters.
Council Member Quinn Sperry said a formal program is good. Council Member Bryant
Brown agreed.
Xl. ADJOURN
MOTION: Council Member Paul Glover MOVED to adjourn the meeting. The

motion was SECONDED by Council Member Quinn Sperry. Mayor Hale

called for discussion on the motion. There being none, he called for a

vote. The motion passed unanimously. :
The meeting adjourned at 9:04 p.m.

\tY STA>
a Pd
Rori L. Andreason, MMC ee Ps
H.R. DIRECTOR/CITY RECORDER Be " .
' Reon ATE &
Approved this 2"? day of February 2021
18
