ON: 7505 South Holden Street
Ss wr ot Midvale, UT 84047
3 Ares.” (801) 567-7200
1 Se www.midvalecity.org
REDEVELOPMENT AGENCY OF MIDVALE CITY
MEETING AGENDA
January 19, 2021
PUBLIC NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN that the Redevelopment Agency of Midvale City
will hold an electronic meeting on the 19" day of January 2021 as follows:
|
Electronic City Council Meeting
This meeting will be an electronic meeting, without a physical location pursuant to Utah Code 52-
4-207, as amended by HB 5002, Mayor Robert Hale as Chair of Midvale City Council hereby
makes the determination that conducting the meeting with an anchor location presents a
substantial risk to the health and safety of those wth may be present at the anchor location. This
determination is based upon the fact that the City is unable to ensure compliance with the
guidelines and public health protocols mandated by the state’s current risk phase.
As restrictions take place across the state for limiting public gatherings, the City wants to make
sure everyone interested in participating in City Council Meetings can do so. The meeting will be
broadcast on the following links:
You Tube:
| You Tube:
https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCLDszK2kMUHuc3-bV-BBsIQ?view_as=subscriber
Public Comments are read into the record by City staff during the “Public Comments’ and “Public
Hearings” portions of the meeting. If you would like to make a public comment, please send an
email to Laura Magness at Lmagness@midvale.com.
lf you would like to provide public comments, please email your comments to
Lmagness@midvale.com prior to the completion of the public comments portion of the meeting.
You may also submit comments if the Mayor and City Council open a specific agenda item to
public comment. These comments will be read aloud in the meeting and will be part of the public
record.
6:00 PM OR IMMEDIATELY FOLLOWING THE CITY COUNCIL MEETING
1. GENERAL BUSINESS
A. WELCOME AND ROLL CALL
ll. PUBLIC COMMENTS
Any person wishing to comment on any item not otherwise scheduled for public hearing
on the Agenda may submit their comment via email to Lmagness@midvale.com prior to
the completion of this portion of the meeting. Items brought forward to the attention of the
Board will be turned over to staff to provide a response outside of the Meeting.
lil. PULIC HEARINGS
A. Consider Proposed Amendments to the FY2021 Budget of the Redevelopment
Agency of Midvale City [Cody Hill, Redevelopment Agency Manager]

Redevelopment Agency of Midvale City
Meeting Agenda
Page 2
ACTION: Consider Resolution No. 2021-01RDA A Budget Appropriation
Resolution of the Redeployment Agency of Midvale City,
Amending The Operating Budget for the Fiscal Year Ending
June 30, 2021
IV. CONSENT AGENDA
A. Consider Approval of the January 5, 2021 Minutes [Rori Andreason, HR
Director/City Recorder]
V. DISCUSSION ITEMS
A. Discuss Main Street Art House [Nate Rockwood, Community Development
Director]
Vi. ADJOURN
In accordance with the Americans with Disabilities Act, Midvale City will make reasonable
accommodations for participation in the meeting. Request assistance by contacting the City
Recorder at 801-567-7207, providing at least three working day notice of the meeting. TTY 711
A copy of the foregoing agenda was provided to the news media by email and/or fax. The agenda
was also posted at the following locations on the date and time as posted above: City Hall Lobby,
on the City’s website at www.midvalecity.org and the State Public Notice Website at
http://pmn.utah.gov. Board Members may participate in the meeting via electronic communications.
Board Members’ participation via electronic communication will be broadcast and amplified so
other Board Members and all other persons present in the Council Chambers will be able to hear or
see the communication.
PLEASE SILENCE CELL PHONES DURING THE MEETING
DATE POSTED: JANUARY 14, 2021 RORI L. ANDREASON, MMC
H.R. DIRECTOR/CITY RECORDER

SX Vs REDEVELOPMENT AGENCY MEETING
l 3 TN = Tanueke
wWwAes 2 Tuesday January 19, 2021
s a Y Council Chambers
7505 South Holden Street
Midvale, Utah 84047
CHAIR: Robert M. Hale
BOARD MEMBERS: Board Member Quinn Sperry
Board Member Dustin Gettel
Board Member Bryant Brown
Board Member Heidi Robinson
Board Member Paul Glover
STAFF: Kane Loader, City Manager; Matt Dahl, Assistant City Manager; Rori
Andreason, HR Director/City Recorder; Lisa Garner, City Attorney; Kyle
Maurer, Administrative Services Director, Nate Rockwood Community
Development Director, Glen Kennedy, Public Works Director; Laura
Magness, Communications Director; Cody Hill; RDA Manager; Chief Randy
Thomas, UPD; and Jake Shepherd, Network Administrator.
L Chair Hale called the meeting to order at 9:07 p.m.
Chair Hale said This meeting will be an electronic meeting, without a physical location
pursuant to Utah Code 52-4-207, as amended by HB 5002. |, Mayor Robert Hale, as Chair
of Redevelopment Agency, hereby make the determination that conducting the meeting
with an anchor location presents a substantial risk to the health and safety of those who
may be present at the anchor location. This determination is based upon the fact that the
City is unable to ensure compliance with the guidelines and public health protocols
mandated by the state’s current risk phase.
I. GENERAL BUSINESS
A. Roll Call - Board Members Dustin Gettel, Quinn Sperry, Bryant Brown, Heidi
Robinson, and Paul Glover were present at roll call.
Chair Hale stated that this is the portion of the agenda that allows any person to express
ideas, concerns, comments, or issues. If you would like to comment on a Public Hearing
item, you will be allotted time during the Public Hearings portion of the meeting. This
meeting will be an electronic meeting, without a physical location pursuant to Utah Code
52-4-207, as amended by HB 5002. |, Mayer Robert Hale, as Chair of Midvale City
Council, hereby make the determination that conducting the meeting with an anchor
location presents a substantial risk to the ee: and safety of those who may be present
at the anchor location. This determination is based upon the fact that the City is unable

Proceedings of the Redevelopment Agency Meeting
January 19, 2021
to ensure compliance with the guidelines and public health protocols mandated by the
state’s current risk phase.
Email your public comment to Laura Magness at Lmagness@midvale.com. When
commenting, please:
e Limit your comments to 400 words (the equivalent of 3 minutes)
e Include your first and last name
e Include your city of residence (optional)
e Include the name of the Agenda item so City staff know when you want your
public comment to be read into the record.
Public Comments are read into the record by City staff during the “Public Comments” and
“Public Hearings” portions of the meeting. City staff will only read into the record the
equivalent of three minutes. So, please be concise with your statements. Thank you for
your input!
ll. PUBLIC COMMENTS
There was no one who desired to speak.
MOTION: Board Member Paul Glover moved to open a public hearing. The
motion was SECONDED by Board Member Quinn Sperry. Chair Hale
called for discussion on the motion. There being none, he called for a
vote. The motion passed unanimously.
lil. PUBLIC HEARINGS ]
A. CONSIDER AMENDMENTS TO THE FY2021 BUDGET OF THE
REDEVELOPMENT AGENCY OF MIDVALE CITY
Nate Rockwood said the Agency staff proposes amendments to the FY 2021 Budget for
the Operations Fund, Bingham Junction RDA Fund, and the Main Street CDA Fund.
These amendments cover unanticipated expenses and balances revenues and expenses
through transfers between funds.
Fiscal Impact:
Main Street Project Area Fund — $41,500 increase in Professional Services
- $3,000 Canyon School District Third Party Consultant
- $30,000 Request for Proposals for an Arts Based Demographics Study
- $2,500 Parcel lines correction — 21-26-480-0280-000
- $6,000 CARES ACT funded films for Main Street outreach
Main Street Project Area Fund - $6,000 increase in transfers from General Fund
Main Street Project Area Fund — $328,000 increase in Property Acquisition
Main Street Project Area Fund — $290,000 decrease in Project Area Improvements
Main Street Project Area Fund — $73,500 increase in Transfer from the Bingham Junction
RDA Fund
Bingham Junction RDA Fund — $73,500 increase in Transfer to Main Street Project Area |
Fund
2

Proceedings of the Redevelopment Agency Meeting
January 19, 2021
F Bingham Junction RDA Fund — $2,250 increase in Professional Services (Trustee fees
for RDA bonds)
Bingham Junction RDA Fund — $7,558 increase in Transfer to Administration
—_ Operations Fund - $7,558 increase in Transfer from other RDA accts
Operations Fund - $5,877 increase in Salaries,
Operations Fund - $1,681 increase in Benefits
STAFF RECOMMENDATION: Agency staff recommends the Agency Board approve the
adjustments to the budget listed above by adopting Resolution No. 2021-01RDA
Chair Hale opened the hearing to public comment. There was no one who desired to
speak.
MOTION: Board Member Paul Glover moved to close the public hearing. The
motion was SECONDED by Board Member Dustin Gettel. Chair Hale
called for discussion on the motion. There being none, he called for a
vote. The motion passed unanimously.
ACTION: CONSIDER RESOLUTION NO. 2021- RDA APPROVING
AMENDMENTS TO THE FY2021 BUDGET OF THE
REDEVELOPMENT AGENCY OF MIDVALE CITY
f MOTION: Board Member Heidi Robinson MOVED to approve Resolution No.
2021-01RDA which adopts the proposed changes to the Fiscal Year
= 2021 Redevelopment Agency Budget. The motion was SECONDED by
Board Member Dustin Gettel. Chair Hale called for discussion on the
motion. There being none he called for a roll call vote. The voting was
as follows:
Board Member Bryant Brown Aye
Board Member Dustin Gettel Aye
Board Member Paul Glover Aye
Board Member Quinn Sperry Aye
Board Member Heidi Robinson Aye
The motion passed unanimously.
IV. CONSENT AGENDA |
A. CONSIDER APPROVAL OF THE JANUARY 5, 2021 MINUTES
MOTION: Board Member Paul Glover MOVED to approve the consent agenda.
The motion was SECONDED by Board Member Bryant Brown. Chair
Hale called for discussion on the motion. There being none he called
for a roll call vote. The voting was as follows:
‘ Board Member Bryant Brown Aye
| Board Member Dustin Gettel Aye
Board Member Paul Glover Aye
L. Board Member Quinn Sperry Aye
3

Proceedings of the Redevelopment Agency Meeting
January 19, 2021
Board Member Heidi Robinson Aye
The motion passed unanimously. |
V. DISCUSSION ITEM
A. DISCUSS MAIN STREET ART CENTER
Nate Rockwood said on November 17th, 2015, Midvale City (“the City”) adopted the Main
Street CDA designating the Main Street neighborhood as an area to be redeveloped and
revitalized. In conjunction with the CDA and to further support the goal of redeveloping
Main Street, the City adopted the Main Street Small Area Plan (“the SAP”) and the Form
Based Code (“the FBC”) on December 4th, 2018 and March 3rd, 2020 respectively.
Through analyzing case studies and other nearby areas with similar development
impediments, Staff believes adding more arts and culture-based developments and
programs will aide in the redevelopment through placemaking. This will not just make the
area more economically successful but will restore Main Street to its former status as a
center of activity for residents and for individuals throughout the county.
One of the ways Staff is proposing to achieve this goal is to transform the site located at
7697 S Main Street (“the Property”) into the Main Street Art House (“Art House’).
Historically the site was home to the Midvale Museum. On June 6th, 2018 the property
was sold to the Redevelopment Agency of Midvale City (“the RDA”). Originally, the
property was slated to be sold through the Request for Proposals (“RFP”) process. This
process involved soliciting proposals from businesses and developers and choosing the
one best suited for the task. However, the number of vacant properties, the potential the
museum site possesses, and recent difficulties with RFPs on Main Street prompted Staff
to investigate alternatives to selling the property. After considering three specific criteria:
providing benefit to the community, financial sustainability, and promoting placemaking
efforts on Main Street, Staff determined the Art House was a viable solution.
The Art House would operate by dividing the floorspace into different studios that would
be rented to artists to create and sell their work from. The Art House would be open to
the public to allow citizens to watch art being created and to purchase local art pieces.
There would also be a community gallery that allows for all Midvale residents to submit
their art for display and sale as well as space for community focused events and activities.
The City would take a small percent from all sales as well as collect studio rent from the
resident artists in order to fund the operations of the building.
As part of the preparation work for the Art House and continued redevelopment of the
Main Street CRA Staff is preparing to issue an RFP intended to find a consultant who can
conduct a full market and demographic study. The study will focus on three main topics:
* The number and survivability of businesses in the Salt Lake Valley that revolve around
the Arts, Culture, and/or unique dining experiences. The goal of this topic is to understand
the market that exists in the Salt Lake Valley for such businesses.
* Demographic statistics of existing successful arts and culture centers in the Rocky ]
Mountain Region. For this project we are looking for demographics such as household
income, age, gender, familial status, race, and education level.
4

Proceedings of the Redevelopment Agency Meeting
January 19, 2021
* Analysis and comparison of the demographic statistics of the Midvale Main Street
l Project Area and the demographic statistics of successful arts and culture centers.
The final product of the study will contain the data gathered by the consultants as well as
suggestions for activating an arts and culture area and recommendations for types of
businesses and mix of uses to focus on for the Main Street CRA.
Board Member Paul Glover said he likes the idea but was concerned with the City putting
money into it year after year.
Nate Rockwood said he is looking for individuals to run the art house with minimal city
staff time.
Board Member Bryant Brown said the Arts Council would be a good candidate to run the
art house.
Next Steps:
e Demographics and Market Study
e Arts Center Committee Selection
e Site Prep
e Artist Rental Agreement Creation
e Advertise for Artists
e Selection of Artists
e Grand Opening
Vi. ADJOURN
MOTION: Board Member Dustin Gettel MOVED to adjourn the meeting. Board
Member Quinn Sperry SECONDED the motion. Chair Hale called for
discussion on the motion. There being none, he called for a vote. The
motion passed unanimously. —
The meeting adjourned at 9:52 p.m. pO
PO Fie. aN
Rofi L. Andreason, MMC 4 Seal }*}
City Recorder NOX foe
Approved this 2"4 day of February 2021. OPMENT oh?
5
