                                                                          7505 South Holden Street
                                                                                 Midvale, UT 84047
                                                                                   (80r)567-7200
                                                                              www.midvalecity.org




                         MIDVALE CITY COUNCIL MEETING
                                    AGENDA
                               JANUARY 18,2022

PUBLIC NOTICE lS HEREBY GIVEN that the Midvale City Council will hold an electronic
and in-person meeting on the 18th day of January 2022 as follows:

Electronic & ln-Person City Council Meeting
This meeting will be held electronically and in-person. Due to the increase in COVID cases, Midvale
City is requiring everyone to wear masks and social distance in accordance with the Salt Lake
County Health Department Mask Order. The public are encouraged to submit their comments
electronically for City Council consideration at www.Midvalecity.org/governmenucontact-us
by 5:00pm on January 'l7th. Please indicate if you would like your comment addressed in
the City Council meeting.

The meeting will be broadcast on the following:
You Tube: www.MidvaleCitv.orolYouTube

6:00 PM - REGULAR MEETING

I.     GENERAL BUSINESS
       A,   WELCOME AND PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE
       B,   ROLL CALL
       C.   Unifred Police Report

II.    PUBLIC COMMENTS
Any person wishing to comment on any item not otherwise scheduled for public hearing
on the agenda may address the City Council at this point by stepping to the microphone
and giving his or her name for the record, Comments should bo limited to not more than
three (3) minutes unles additional time is authorized by the Governing Body. Citizen
groups will be asked to appoint a spokesperson. This is the time and place for any person
who wishes to comment on non-hearing, non-Agenda items. ltems brought forward to the
attention of the City Council will be turned over to staff to provide a response outside of
the City Council meeting.

III.   COUNCIL REPORTS
           Councilmember Quinn Sperry
       B.  Councilmember Dustin Gettel
           Councilmember Bryant Brown
       D,  Councilmember Heidi Robinson
       E.  Councilmember Paul Glover
tv.     MAYOR MARCUS STEVENSON REPORT

V.      CITY MANAGER REPORT

vt      DEPARTMENT REPORTS
             Community Development Report I rate Rockwood, Community Development
                 Directorl

v[.     CONSENT AGENDA
        A.       Consider Minutes of January 4,2022 [Rori Andreason, H.R. Directorlcity
                 Recorderl

vilt. AcTtoN tTEMs
      A. Consider Ordinance No. 2022-0-03 An Ordinance Amending the Midvale
                 Municipal Code Section 2.36.040 regarding Electronic fueetings [Lisa Garner,
                 City Aftorneyl

        B        Consider Reso/ution No. 2022-R-02 A Resolution Appointing the Mayor and City
                 Council's Board and Committee Assignments I,lraff Dahl, City Managerl

tx.     DISCUSSION ITEMS
        A.   Discussion Regarding City Council Redistricting lMatt Dahl, City Manager]

        B        Discuss Boundary Lot Adjustment with Sandy City/Brandon Fry [Adam Olsen,
                 Planning Directorl

        C        l\/id-Year Budget Update lot FY2022 luariah Hill, Administratiye Seryices
                 Directorl

X.      ADJOURN
 ln accordance with the Americans with Disabilities Act, Midvale City will make reasonable
 accommodations for participation in the meeting. Reguest assistarrce by contacting the City
 Recorder at 801-567-7207, providing at least three working day notice of the meeting. TTY 711

 A copy of the foregoing agenda was provided to the news media by email and/or tax, The agenda
 was also posaed at the following locations on the date anct time as posted above: City Hall Lobby,
 on the CW's weDsite at www mrdvalecrtv oro and the State Public Notice Website at
 htto://omn. utah.oov.   Council Members may participate in the meeting via eleclronic
 communications. Council Members' patticipation via electronic communication wilt be broadcast
 and amplified so other Council Members and all other persons present in the Council Chambers
 will be able to hear or see the communication.

 DATE PoSTED: JANUARY 13,2021                                          RORI L. ANDREASON, MMC
                                                                  H.R. DIRECToR/CIw REcoRoER
                                 COUNCIL MEETING
                                     Minutes

                              Tuesday January 18,2022
                                 Council Chambers
                              7505 South Holden Street
                                Midvale, Utah 84047


MAYOR:                     Mayor Marcus Stevenson

COUNCIL MEMBERS:           Council Member Paul Glover
                           Council Member Dustin Gettel
                           Council Member Quinn Sperry
                           Council Member Bryant Brown
                           Council Member Heidi Robinson

STAFF:       Matt Dahl, City Manager; Kyle Maurer, Assistant City Manager; Rori
             Andreason, HR Director/City Recorder; Lisa Garner, City Attorney; Glen
             Kennedy, Public Works Director; Mariah Hill, Administrative Services
             Director; Laura Magness, Communications Director; Nate Rockwood,
             Community Development Director; Adam Olsen, Planning Director; Chief
             Randy Thomas, UPD; Chief Brad Larson, UFA; Matt Pierce, lT Director; and
             Juan Rosario, Systems Administrator.

6:00 PM REGULAR MEETING

Mayor Marcus Stevenson called the business meeting to order at 6:00 p.m.

I.     GENERAL BUSINESS
       A.  WELCOME AND PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE

       B.    ROLL CALL - Council Members Heidi Robinson, Dustin Gettel, Bryant
Brown, and Quinn Sperry, and Paul Glover were present at roll call.

       C. UNIFIED POLICE REPORT
Chief Randy Thomas said he has COVID-19 and is home attending virtually. He said he
had not been tested as per the new CDC guidelines. He reviewed the statistical report
with the Council. ln the report there are calls for service for all the motels. One motel
had a significant higher number than the others. He said he would look into it when he is
back in the office.

II. PUBLIC COMMENTS
There was no one who desired to speak

III.   COUNCIL REPORTS
       A.  Council Member Quinn Sperry - had nothing to report.
Proceeding of City Council Meeting
Januaty 18,2022

       B.      Council Member Dustin Gettel - said the Council will continue to strive to
keep Midvale safe despite conflicting messages from the legislature.

       c.      Council Member Bryant Brown - thanked the l.T. Department for
assisting with the virtual meeting.

       D.      Council Member Heidi Robinson - had nothing to report

       E.      Council Member Paul Glover - said he was currently attending the
meeting virtually in sunny Hawaii. He said he was happy to join the meeting.

IV. MAYOR REPORT
Mayor Stevenson reminded everyone of the current mask mandate and encouraged
everyone to take the virus serious and use precautions. He said he met with the Canyons
School District last week. There will be no school for five days to help reset the COVID-
1 9 cases. He said they are also in the process of wrapping up their redistricting. The

Hillcrest High School parking lot has been completed and the Union Middle School is
anticipated to be completed by fall of 2023.

V.    CITY MANAGER REPORT
Matt Dahl said staff will be discussing a change to Midvale Ordinance later in this meeting.
The ordinance allows Midvale to attend meetings electronic. He said he would like
Council input on the upcoming meetings during the mask mandate since the previous
emergency order expired, He said the tour of Zions Building was cancelled due to the
mask mandate and will be rescheduled tour for February 1Sth. He said the Legislative
Session started that day and will continue for 45 days. He said he would keep the Council
updated on issues affecting the City.

VI. DEPARTMENT REPORTS
    A. COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT REPORT
Nate Rockwood updated the Council on incorrect amounts being issued for business
licenses. Corrections have been made and steps taken to double check the licenses prior
to mailing them out in the future.

VII. CONSENT AGENDA
     A. CONSIDER MINUTES OF JANUARY 4,2022
MOTION:        Council Member Paul Glover MOVED to Approve the Consent Agenda.
               The motion was SEGONDED by Council Member Quinn Sperry. Mayor
               Stevenson called for discussion on the motion. There being none, he
               called for a roll call vote. The voting was as follows:
                      Council Member Quinn Sperry             Aye
                      Council Member Paul Glover              Aye
                      Council Member Heidi Robinson Aye
                      Council Member Bryant Brown             Aye
                      Council Member Dustin Gettel            Aye
               The motion passed unanimously.
                                             2
Proceeding of City Council Meeting
Januaty L8, 2022


VIII. ACTION ITEMS
       A.      CONSIDER ORDINANCE NO. 2022.0.03 AN ORDINANCE AMENDING
               THE MIDVALE MUNICIPAL CODE SECTION 2.36.040 REGARDING
               ELECTRONIC MEETINGS
Lisa Garner said in 2021, the Utah Legislature amended UCA 552-4-207 governing how
electronic public meetings are conducted by a public body. The amendment allowed for
public meetings to be conducted electronically if the public body had passed an
ordinance, rule, or resolution governing the use of electronic meetings. Midvale Municipal
Code 2.36.040 allowed for electronic meetings but is not updated to include the
amendments from the state code. Specifically, Midvale's ordinance did not allow for an
electronic meeting to occur without the existence of an anchor location. During the
pandemic, the Council passed an emergency order permitting electronic meetings without
an anchor location as permitted by the Governor's emergency order. Since the
Governor's and all of Midvale's emergency orders have expired, it has become necessary
to amend our ordinance to include the amendments made to the state code and to allow
for electronic meetings without an anchor location. The amendment provides that an
electronic meeting may be conducted without an anchor location, if the chair of the public
body determines that conducting the meeting with an anchor location presents a
substantial risk to the health or safety of those present or who would otherwise be present
at the anchor location, or the location where the public body would normally meet has
been ordered closed to the public for health and safety reasons. As proposed, the
amendments to 2.36.040:

   . lncorporates the amendments to UCA 552-4-207         .

   o Expands the applicability of the ordinance to all public bodies of Midvale City.
   . Allows for a public body of Midvale to conduct an electronic meeting without an
       anchor location and in the absence of an emergency order.

Council Member Dustin Gettel asked if this ordinance is passed, how it would impact the
public?

Ms. Garner said staff would publish in the notice that there will be no anchor location and
indicate how the public can comment.

Council Member Dustin Gettel asked if this ordinance change would also be used for
other things besides just public health. Can it be used for emergencies?

Ms. Garner said it is specifically for a public health risk. The public notice has to have a
reason of why the city is not having an anchor location.

Council Member Dustin Gettel asked if the emergency declaration is tied in with the State
or County?

Ms. Garner said the ordinance doesn't require that the city needs an emergency order,
just that there is a public health risk with an anchor location.

                                             3
Proceeding of City Council MeetinB
January 18,2022

Council Member Dustin Gettel asked if the Chair (Mayor) has the authority to declare an
emergency order without the vote of the Council.

Ms. Garner said yes, the Mayor or Mayor Pro-Tem can make that determination.

Council Member Dustin Gettel said he wants the language in the ordinance to be clear.
Council Member Bryant Brown agreed with Council Member Dustin Gettel.

Council member Paul Glover likes the way it is currently written. He said he feels the
Mayor should have the authority to declare an emergency order without the consent of
the Council.

MOTION:        Council Member Paul Glover MOVED to Adopt Ordinance No. 2022-0-
               03, Amending Section 2.36.040 Electronic Meetings of the Midvale
               Municipal Code. The motion was SECONDED by Council Member
               Heidi Robinson. Mayor Stevenson called for discussion on the motion.
               There being none, he called for a roll call vote. The voting was as
               follows:
                     Council Member Quinn Sperry           Aye
                     Council Member Paul Glover            Aye
                     Council Member Heidi Robinson Aye
                     Council Member Bryant Brown           Aye
                     Council Member Dustin Gettel          Aye
               The motion passed unanimously.


       B.      CONSIDER RESOLUTION NO. 2022-R-02 A                         RESOLUTION
               APPOINTING THE MAYOR AND CITY COUNCIL'S BOARD AND
               COMMITTEE ASSIGNMENTS
Matt Dahl said Midvale City is a member entity to several interlocal, non-profit, and
governmental organizations. Each year the Mayor and City Council deliberate and
consider individuals they feel would best represent the city on the various governing
boards and committees for those organizations. The current list has been updated to
include Mayor Marcus Stevenson. The list has also been modified to remove
organizations where Midvale does not have a formal relationship or where the partner
organization determines its own board members. ln some of these instances we have
indicated that our representative is to be determined (TBD) after conferring with the
partner organization. A resolution has been prepared along with a list of the organizations
and the respective assignments for the Council's approval. He said one change needed
to be made which would add Mayor Stevenson to the Community Council.

MOTION:        Council Member Dustin Gettel MOVED to Approve Resolution No.
               2022-R-02, a resolution approving the Mayor and City Council's
               Gommittee Assignments with the amendment to assign Mayor Marcus
               Stevenson on the Community Council. The motion was SECONDED
               by Council Member Quinn Sperry. Mayor Stevenson called for

                                             4
Proceeding of City Council Meeting
January L8,2022

               discussion on the motion. There being none, he called for a roll call
               vote, The voting was as follows:
                    Council Member Quinn Sperry   Aye
                    Council Member Paul Glover    Aye
                    Council Member Heidi Robinson Aye
                    Council Member Bryant Brown   Aye
                    Council Member Dustin Gettel  Aye
               The motion passed unanimously.


IX. DISUCSSION ITEMS
    A. DISCUSSION REGARDING CITY COUNCIL REDISTRICTING
Matt Dahl said state code gives each municipality the authority to establish its own city
council districts by ordinance. Each municipality is required to complete the process of
establishing new districts, or redistricting, within six months of the State Legislature
completing its own redistricting process. Midvale will be required to complete the
municipal redistricting process by May 16,2022. ln November, staff presented options
during a workshop for the process of redrawing Midvale's council district boundaries. After
considering the options, the City Council indicated an interest in pursuing the following
schedule and steps as part of the redistricting process.

   a    January 2022 - Slafi gathers data from the 2020 Census, State of Utah, and Salt
        Lake County and begins preparing draft redistricting maps.

        March 2022 - Staff holds a public open house and presents 2-3 redistricting map
        options. Staff will record the feedback gathered in the open house for transmittal
        to the City Council.

   . April 2022 -fhe City Council will review the draft redistricting maps and feedback
        from the public open house.

Council will vote to adopt new council districts. The only criteria required by law for the
preparation of redistricting maps is that the new districts must have substantially equal
populations. Beyond that requirement, staff will use the following criteria in the preparation
of the draft redistricting maps:

   a    Continuity - Staff will seek to substantially retain the integrity of existing districts.

        Compactness - Staff will seek to achieve a compact and understandable shapes
        for each district.

    a   Neighborhood lntegrity - Staff will seek to limit the breakup of established
        neighborhoods into multiple districts.

    a   Understandable     -  Staff will seek to use understandable boundaries between
        districts, such as streets, rail, etc.

                                                 5
Proceeding of City Council Meeting
January L8,2022



The purpose of this discussion is to review the previously considered plan during a regular
meeting.

The Council asked to see the district maps prior to the open houses and to have two open
houses available for the public.


       B.      DISCUSS BOUNDARY LOT ADJUSTMENT WITH SANDY
               CITY/BRANDON FRY
Adam Olsen said this item was discussed at the November 16,2021 Council Work
Session. Staff is bringing it back for further discussion and clarification. lf the Council
desires to ultimately proceed with a boundary line adjustment with Sandy City, a
resolution of intent will be prepared for a forthcoming Council Meeting.

Brandon Fry is the owner of parcels of ground, totaling approximately 2.06 acres. The
parcels are located within of Sandy City and border Midvale; however, access to the
parcels is off of 300 East in Midvale. Mr. Fry would like to develop the property in Midvale
and under the City's requirements. ln order to do so, a boundary adjustment with Sandy
City would need to occur. The Utah Code outlines a process for boundary adjustment
between municipalities. 10-2-419 in the Code identifies this process. ln short, each
municipality must adopt a resolution indicating an intent to adjust the boundary, followed
by a public hearing no less than 60 days afier adoption of such resolution of intent. Upon
conclusion of the public hearing, the legislative bodies involved may adopt an ordinance
approving such boundary adjustment. Following such ordinance, a filing with the
Lieutenant Governor, within 60 days, must occur. The boundary adjustment then takes
effect on either July 1st or January 1st of the following year, depending on whether a
certificate of issuance by the Lieutenant Governor is issued either during the preceding
November 1st through April 30th or May 1st through October 31st.

Part of the process also involves a zone designation for the property upon completion of
the boundary adjustment. Adjacent parcels in Midvale are zoned SF-1 and SF1-DO
(Duplex Overlay). Both zones are Single Family. Mr. Fry proposes a concept of 12 duplex
structures totaling 24 units; a corresponding density of approximately 11.7 du/ac. While
this type of development may conceptually fit within the SF1-DO zone, staff has not
completed an in-depth analysis regarding adherence to all provisions found within the
SF1-DO zone. This in-depth review would occur upon approval of a boundary adjustment
and zone designation by the City.

Should the property be placed in Midvale City, and the zone designation of SF1-DO given,
the following reviews would then need to occur: (1) Small Scale Master Plan, (2)
Conditional Use Permit, (3) Preliminary Subdivision Plan, and (4) Final Subdivision Plat.
While many of these processes may occur simultaneously, each process will requires its
own approval; the Planning Commission being the approval body for both the Small Scale
Master Plan and Conditional Use Permit; the City Council approving both the Preliminary
Plan (upon a recommendation from the Planning Commission) and Final Plat. Each
process is outlined in Chapter 17 of Midvale's Municipal Code. The developer
                                             6
Proceeding of City Council Meeting
January L8, 2022

commissioned LYRB to prepare an Economic lmpact Analysis of the conceptual
development; the analysis finding that, if approved and developed, the proposal would
yield approximately $19,200 to the City's General Fund over a twenty (20) year period.

Council Member Paul Glover said if the property stays in Sandy, can they do the same
project?

Mr. Olsen said they may be able to do something similar, not sure what kind of overlays
are in place with Sandy. lt is currently zoned as R2, which includes duplexes.

Council Member Paul Glover said in some respects he likes the idea because they are
more likely to receive better services, such as police. Council Member Heidi Robinson
agreed.

Mayor Stevenson asked what the average amount of revenue on these types of projects
are.

Kyle Maurer said finance has not done any calculations on that.

Council Member Paul Glover said staff needs to wait for Sandy City's decision before
putting too much time and effort into the project.

Brandon Fry said in his discussions with Sandy City, have all been favorable.


       C,     MID-YEAR BUDGET UPDATE FORFY2O22
Mariah Hill reviewed the status ottheFY2022 budget revenues and expenditures.

General Fund - Revenues
  . Revenues al42.2o/o of Budget
         . License and Permits - 43.5To
         . lntergovernmental - 19.8%
         . Miscellaneous - 117.7o/o
         . Use of Fund Balance - 0%
General Fund - Expenditures
    . Expenditures at 53.4% of Budget
         . Administrative Services - 41 .8Yo
         . Public Works - 40.9%
         . Community Development - 43.5%
         . Transfers - 100%
Capital Projects Fund
    . Revenues at 50.1% of Budget
    . Expenditures at 18.6%
         . Most budgeted projects have not been started yet
                                            7
Proceeding of City Council Meeting
January 18, 2022

Water Fund
  . Revenuesat80.l% of Budget
        . ARPA Funds not included in original budget
  . Expenses at 54.2o/o of Budget
        . Operating budgets - 4O.7o/o
           . Capital budget - 29.6%
           . Debt Service - 90.9%
Sewer Fund
   . Revenues at51 .4% ofBudget
   . Expenses at 51 .4o/o of Budget
           .
           Operating budgets - 41.1%
           .
           South Valley Water Reclamation Facility - 58.8%

Storm Water Fund
   . Revenues at 50% of Budget
   . Expenses at 53.3% of Budget
        . Operating budgets - 42.4o/o
        . Capital budget - 39%
       Debt Service - 87.5%

Street Lighting Fund
   . Revenues al49.60/o of Budget
   . Expenses al 43.3% of Budget
          . Operating budgets - 17.6%
          . Lease - 64.70/o
Sanitation Fund
   . Revenues at 49.2%o of Budget
   . Expenses a|39.4% of Budget
        . Landfill & Disposal Fees - 38.7%
Telecommunications Fund
   . Revenues at 88% of Budget
        . Transfers - 100o/o
       Expenses at 50.3% of Budget

Fleet lnternal Service Fund
   .   Revenues at35.2% ofBudget
           .  Sale of Fixed Assets - 6.1%
   .   Expenses a|20.7% ofBudget
   .   Vehicle Purchases - 0%

lT lnternal Service Fund
   .   Revenues at61.1o/o of Budget
           . Transfers - 100%
   .   Expenses at 29.1o/o of Budget
                                            8
Proceeding of City Council Meeting
January 18,2022

               Hardware/Software - 41 .Sok
               City-Wide Software lmplementation - 0%

X.     ADJOURN

MOTION:        Council Member Paul Glover MOVED to adjourn the meeting. The
               motion was SECONDED by Council Member Dustin Gettel. Mayor
               Stevenson called for discussion on the motion. There being none, he
               called for a vote. The motion passed unanimously.

The meetin s ad journed al 7:12p.m.
                                                           y S I,t rc
                                                    e/
                                                .>t                     c
R    L. And    n, MMC                           a
                                                I
H.R. DIRECTOR/CITY RECORDER
                                                *        ,ttv r. trol   t
Approved this 1st day ol February 2022
                                                            RATE




                                           9
                  Midvule Ci4t Council Meeting
                          Sign in Sheet

                      Tuesday January 18,2022


NAME (PLEASE PRINT)          ADDRESS                 CITY

      (                lU r. Tzat e              h;ilr,u/t
W,   d/d'u 6,4(        7?97 5, Q ac+,,a/)        A'cl /a/z
                          Midvale City Public Comment
                                  Sign in Sheet

                               Tuesdoy, January 1 8, 2022


                               PUBLIC COMMENTS
Any person wishing to comment on ant, item not otherwise scheduledlor public heoring on tlte
Agenda moy address the City Council at this point by stepping to the microphone and giving his
or lter name for the record. Comments should be limited to nol more lhan lhree (3) minutes,
unless additional time is authorized by the Governing Body. Citizen groups will be asked to
oppoint a spokesperson. This is lhe lime and ploce for any person who wishes lo comment on
non-hearing, non-Agenda items. Items broughtforward lo lhe atention of lhe City Council will
be turned over to stoff to provide a response outside of lhe Cily Council meeting.


 NAME (PLEASE PRINT)                                            ADDRESS
