                                                                      7505 South Holden Strcet
                                                                             Midvale, UT 84047
                                                                                (80r) 567-7200
                                                                        www.midvalecity.orq


                   REDEVELOPMENT AGENCY OF MIDVALE CITY
                             MEETING AGENDA
                             JANUARY 17,2023


PUBLIC NOTICE lS HEREBY GIVEN that the Redevelopment Agency of Midvale City
will hold an electronic and in-person meeting on the 'l7th day of January, 2023 as follows:

Electronic & ln-Person City Council Meeting
This meeting will be held electronically and in-person. Public comments may be submitted
electronically to the Board at }vavw.Midvalecity.org/governmenucontact-us by 5:00pm
on January 16th and will be included in the meeting record.

The meeting will be broadcast on the following: You Tube : www.MidvaleCitv.oro/YouTube

7:00 PM OR IMMEDIATELY FOLLOWNG THE CITY COUNCIL MEETING

I. GENERAL BUSINESS
A, WELCOME AND ROLL CALL

II. PUBLIC COMMENTS
Any person wishing to comment on any item not otherwise scheduled for public hearing
on the agenda may address the Redevelopment Agency of Midvale City Board at this point
by stepping to the microphone and giving his or her name for the record, Comments
should be llmited to not more than three (3) minutes unless addltional time ls authorized
by the Redevelopment Agency of iiidvale Clty Board. Citizen groups will be asked to
appoint a spokesperson. This is the time and place for any person who wishes to comment
on non-hearing, non-Agenda items. ltems brought forward to the attention of the
Redevelopment Agency of Midvale City will be turned over to staff to provide a response
outside of the Redevelopment Agency meeting.

III.   CONSENT AGENDA
            Consider Minutes of December 6, 2022 [Rori Andreason, HR Director/City
              Recorderl

IV.    ACTION ITEM
            Consider Resolution No. 2O23-O1RDA Selecting a Name for Future Branding
            and Marketing of the Main Street Area lCody Hill, Redevelopment Agency
            Directorl

V.     ADJOURN
Redevelopment Agency of l\/lidvale City Nileeting Agenda
January 17 , 2023

ln accordance with the Americans with Disabilities Act, Midvale City wi make reasonable
accommodations for paiicipation in the meeting. Reguest assislance by conlacting the City
Recorder at 801-567-7207, provicling at least three working days' notice of the meeting. TTY 711

A copy of the foregoing agenda was provided to the news media by email and/or fax. The agenda
was also posted at the tollowing locations on the date and time as posfed aboye.' City Ha Lobby,
on the CiA's website at www.midvalecity.otg and the State Public Notice Website at
http://pmn.utah.gov, Board Members may participate in the meeting via electronic communications.
Board Members' participation via eteclronic communicalion will be broadcast and amplified so
other Board Members and all other persons present in the Council Chambers witl be able to hear or
se€ the communication.

DATE POSTED: JANUARY 12,2023                               RORI L. ANDREASON, MMC
                                                           H.R. DIRECTOR/CITY RECORDER
                               REDEVELOPMENT AGENCY MEETING
                t                           Minutes
                :                   Tuesday December 6, 2022
       ^
                                        Gouncil Chambers
                                     7505 South Holden Street
                                        Midvale, Utah 84047


CHAIR:                            Marcus Stevenson

BOARD MEMBERS:                   Board Member Heidi Robinson
                                 Board Member Paul Glover
                                 Board Member Dustin Gettel
                                 Board Member Quinn Sperry
                                 Board Member Bryant Brown

STAFF.              Matt Dahl, City Manager; Rori Andreason, City Recorder; Lisa Garner, City
                    Attorney; Glen Kennedy, Public Works Director; Chief Randy Thomas,
                    UPD; Chief Brad Larsen, UFA; Jake Shepherd, Network Administrator.

Chair Stevenson called the meeting to order at 8:04 p.m

I.         GENERAL BUSINESS
           A. Roll Call - Board Members Dustin Gettel, Quinn Sperry, Bryant Brown, Heidi
Robinson, and Paul Glover were present at roll call.

II. PUBLIC COMMENTS
There was no one who desired to speak. None

III.       CONSENT AGENDA
           A   CONSIDER MINUTES OF NOVEMBER'15, 2022

           B        CONSIDER RESOLUTION 2022-15RDA ESTABLISHING A TIME AND
                    PLACE FOR HOLDING REDEVELOPMENT AGENCY OF MIDVALE
                    CITY MEETINGS FOR THE 2023 CALENDAR YEAR

MOTION:             Board Member Paul Glover MOVED to approve the consent agenda.
                    The motion was SECONDED by Board Member Dustin Gettel. Chair
                    Stevenson called for discussion on the motion. There being none he
                    called for a roll call vote. The voting was as follows:
                           Board Member Bryant Brown Aye
                           Board Member Dustin Gettel Aye
                           Board Member Paul Glover Aye
                           Board Member Quinn Sperry Aye
                           Board Member Heidi Robinson Aye
                    The motion passed unanimously.

                                                 1
Proceedings of Redevelopment Agency of Midvale City Meeting
December 6. 2022

IV.    ACTION ITEM
       A. CONSIDER APPROVING TWO NEW HOUSING PROGRAMS: DOWN
              PAYMENT ASSISTANCE (DPA) AND A HOME REPAIR LOAN
              PROGRAM (HRLP)
Meggie Troili said both programs are part of the RDA's l/oderate lncome Housing plan
and Moderate-lncome Housing element, as required by state law. The DPA and HRLP
programs are focused on households who fall on or below 80% AMl. All funds are
available on a first-come, first-served basis. These programs will be supported by tax
increment dollars as part of the City-Wide Housing fund which are restricted for affordable
housing, including any interest revenue generated by the loans. Furthermore, the RDA
will apply for Community Development Block Grants (CDBG) to further support these
programs. This item, first discussed on 1111512022, now returns for RDA Board approval.

DPA - The Down Payment Assistance Program (DPA) provides forgivable loans for low-
to moderate-income first-time home buyers in Midvale City. The program seeks to provide
equitable access to home buying, provide homeowner education, and increase home
ownership in Midvale.

HRLP - The Home Repair Loan Program (HRLP) provides income assistance through
low interest or forgivable loans for low- to moderate-income homeowners to address
emergency repairs, eliminate blight, conserve energy, conect building violations, and
preserve the housing community within the city limits of Midvale City.

FISCAL IMPACT: $400,000 annually

STAFF RECOMMENDATION:
The Agency recommended the passing of Resolution No. 2022-16RDA approving two
new housing programs: Down Payment Assistance (DPA) and the Home Repair Loan
Program (HRLP).

MOTION:        Board Member Dustin Gettel MOVED to Approve Resolution No.2022-
               16RDA Approving Two New Housing Programs, the Down Payment
               Assistance (DPA) Program and the Home Repair Loan Program
               (HRLP). The motion was SECONDED by Board Member Heidi
               Robinson. Chair Stevenson called for discussion on the motion.
               There being none he called for a roll call vote. The voting was as
               follows:
                      Board Member Bryant Brown Aye
                      Board Member Dustin Gettel Aye
                      Board Member Paul Glover Aye
                      Board Member Quinn Sperry Aye
                      Board Member Heidi Robinson Aye
               The motion passed unanimously.




                                                2
Proceedings of Redevelopment Agency of Midvale City Meeting
December 6, 2022

       B.      CONSIDER APPROVAL OF RESOLUTION NO. 2O22-17RDA THE MAIN
               STREET FAQADE IMPROVEMENT PROGRAM
Kate Andrus said on November 16, the Redevelopment Agency Board held a discussion
on the proposal of a fagade improvement program to be utilized within the Main Street
CDA. Staff has taken the Board's comments and has included them in an updated
proposal which is being brought before the Board for final approval. The key elements of
the final program are as follows:

Goal:
The goal of the Main Street fagade improvement program is to improve the exterior of
buildings withing the Main Street area as a tool to attract new businesses, maintain
existing businesses, and make Main Street a desirable place to shop, conduct business,
and reside. As a result, this program will help fulfill the Main Street Community
Development Area's objectives of enhancing employment and income opportunities for
community residents; increasing the diversity of the tax base, increasing the resources
available for performing governmental services; and supporting and encouraging
appropriate public and private development efforts in the community.

Fu nding:
Funding will be allocated through the RDA budget. All grants awarded will require a
matching dollar for dollar expenditure by the owner or tenant. ln addition, an easement
on the fagade shall be conveyed by the property owner to the Redevelopment Agency of
Midvale City to be held in perpetuity. Proposals will be considered on a case-by-case
basis and evaluated based on the ability of the project to further the goals of the Main
Street CDA.

Terms:
   o Maximum grant award of $35,000 is permitted per project.
   .   The grant award amount shall not exceed 50% of the total cost of the
       improvements to the fagade(s).
   .   Grant awards are provided as a reimbursement after all associated work listed on
       the approved scope of work has been completed.
           o Staff will require releases of all contractor liens and other documentation
             that verifies completion of final payments prior to releasing the funds.
   .   Each grant recipient agrees to maintain and keep in good repair the fagade or
       improvements.
   .   The property owner must convey to the RDA a perpetual facade easement.
           o This will ensure that any improvements funded by the City will remain in
             good condition and repair regardless of change in ownership.
                 . At the final discretion of the RDA Board, the terms of the easement
                    may be used to protect the following improvements, which help
                      ""T""r15;;';;."JJffiI;'ffi:#i" (ie Vincent Drus sisn            )
                          . lmproved appearance of the fagade.
                          o Any additions or modifications made to the exterior.

                                                3
Proceedings of Redevelopment Agency of Midvale City Meetang
December 6,2022

       The City of Midvale and RDA assume no liability for any work that is done pursuant
       to this program. The applicant agrees to hold both Midvale City, and the RDA
       harmless from all liability claims.
       lf the building is currently vacant, the applicant has 12 months from the date of
       project completion to arrange a tenant.

Eligibility:
   . Applicants must be owners or tenants of real property located within the Main
     Street CDA. Tenants must provide written consent of the building owner.
   . Property tax payments must be current.
   . Business owners must hold a valid business license.
   o The Applicant must possess and provide proof of ownership. lf a tenant, proof of
     ownership must be verified by the building owner and a copy of the lease
     agreement provided to the RDA.
   . All building materials used in the improvements to the facade must have a
     minimum certified life of 30 years.
   . All buildings must have commercial activity as its primary purpose including, but
     not limited to, traditional retail, specialty shops, services, restaurants and bars, live
     entertainment, cultural venues, and galleries. Mixed Use buildings will be
     considered commercial buildings, provided the commercial use is located on the
     ground level.
   . All improvements must comply with current City zoning and code.
   . All lmprovements, which contribute to the stimulation of activity, must achieve the
     following:
          o Provide a noticeable contribution to Main Street's revitalization efforts.
          o Should be consistent with the aspirational character of and vision for Main
                  Street.
               o Should support and enhance pedestrian accessibility and be pedestrian
                  oriented.

Eligible Activities:
   . Repairs to building exterior facades (front, rear and side facades are eligible).
   . Masonry repair.
   o Cleaning of building exterior.
   . Exterior painting.
   . Repairing or replacing cornices, entrances, doors, windows, decorative detail,
     awnings.
   . Sign construction, repair, or replacement.
   . Other repairs or improvements that may enhance the aesthetic quality of the
     building.
   o Accentuating of existing features of the building through painting, Iighting,
     restoration, replacement, cleaning, or other treatment of exterior surfaces.
   . The addition of design elements which may have appeared on buildings built in the
       same period.


                                                4
Proceedings of Redevelopment Agency of lvlidvale City Meeting
December 6, 2022

Selection Criteria:
The level of private investment utilized for the renovation.
          o Applicants providing more than a 50% match will receive higher priority.
   . The potential impact the project will have on the surrounding area.
          o Visual prom inence/sign ificance.
   . Whether the proposed improvements contribute to the overall revitalization of Main
     Street.
   o The building's level of blight.
   o Whether the building is abandoned.
   o Whether the applicant has been awarded fagade grants in the recent past.
   o Whether the applicant can demonstrate a financial need.
Process:
   1   . Fill out and submit a completed application which includes a written scope of work
      describing the proposed improvements, including all materials and color schemes.
      The application must be submitted with the following supporting documentation:
      . Current photograph of the property to be improved.
      o Schematics (drawings or renderings of proposed improvements.)
      . Two written cost estimates describing the cost of the scope of work by licensed
          construction contractors or contractors appropriate to work being performed.
      . Copy of recorded property deed.
      o Written Consent of property owner, if applicable.
   2. The submitted application will be reviewed by the Redevelopment Agency
      Program Manager and Planning staff for completeness and eligibility.
   3. All eligible projects will be reviewed and scored during a review meeting by the
      Main Street Fagade lmprovement Advisory Board to access the project's overall
      contribution to the revitalization of the Main Street area. The applicant will be
      required to attend this meeting to answer any questions the advisory board feels
      is necessary to make a recommendation on the proposed project. The Advisory
      Board will provide said recommendation regarding the funding amount as well as
      the proposed terms of the easement to the Agency's Board of Directors, who will
      determine final approval.
   4. Once approved by the RDA Board, the applicant must enter a Grant and Easement
      agreement with the RDA.
   5. Construction on the project must begin within 90 days of final approval.
Fiscal lmpact:
Main Street CDA's will budget $105,000 in funding for the Main Street Faqade
lmprovement Program during this fiscal year.

Board Feedback:
lf approved, staff would ask that the Board assign a representative of the RDA Board to
the sit on the Main Street Fagade lmprovement Advisory Board.

The Board decided to appoint Board Member Dustin Gettel as the representative on the
Main Street Fagade lmprovement Advisory Board.

                                                  5
Proceedings of Redevelopment Agency of l\4idvale City Meeting
December 6. 2022



MOTION:         Board Member Bryant Brown MOVED to Adopt Resolution No.2O22-
                ITRDA Authorizing the Creation of the Main Street Fagade
                lmprovement Program and Appoint Board Member Dustin Gettel as
               the Representative of the RDA Board on the Main Street Fagade
               lmprovement Advisory Board. The motion was SECONDED by Board
               Member Heidi Robinson. Chair Stevenson called for discussion on
               the motion. There being none he called for a roll call vote. The voting
               was as follows:
                     Board Member Bryant Brown Aye
                     Board Member Dustin Gettel Aye
                     Board Member Paul Glover Aye
                     Board Member Quinn Sperry Aye
                     Board Member Heidi Robinson Aye
               The motion passed unanimously.

V.     ADJOURN

MOTION:         Board Member Paul GIover MOVED to adjourn the meeting. Board
                Member Dustin Gettel SECONDED the motion. Chair Stevenson called
               for discussion on the motion. There being none, he called for a vote.
               The motion passed unanimously.

The meeting adjourned at B:22 p.m
                      4

                                                          ALE c


Ro        n dreason MMC                               *           t
City Recorder                                             Sest    .\

Approved this 17th day of January, 2023




                                                  6
