                         REDEVELOPMENT AGENCY MEETING
                                     Minutes
                             Tuesday February 20, 2024

                                  Council Chambers
                                 7505 S Holden Street
                                 Midvale, Utah 84047


CHAIR:                      Marcus Stevenson

BOARD MEMBERS:             Board Member Paul Glover
                           Board Member Bonnie Billings
                           Board Member Dustin Gettel
                           Board Member Bryant Brown
                           Board Member Heidi Robinson

STAFF:       Matt Dahl, City Manager; Nate Rockwood, Assistant City Manager; Rori
             Andreason, HR Director/City Recorder; Garrett Wilcox, City Attorney;
             Mariah Hill, Administrative Services Director; Erinn Summers, Project and
             Policy Manager; Kate Andrus , RDA Program Manager; Wendelin Knobloch ,
             Planning Director; Christian Larsen, Assistant Finance Director; Jonathan
             Anderson, Planner II; Adam Olsen , Community Development Director;
             Randy Thomas, UPD; Chief Brad Larson, UFA; and Juan Rosario, Systems
             Administrator.

Chair Stevenson called the meeting to order at 8:39 p.m .

I.    GENERAL BUSINESS
      A. Roll Call - Board Members Dustin Gettel , Bonnie Billings, Bryant Brown, Heidi
Robinson, and Paul Glover were present at roll call.

II.   PUBLIC COMMENTS
There was no one who desired to speak.

Ill.   CONSENT AGENDA
       A.  CONSIDER MINUTES OF FEBRUARY 6, 2024

MOTION:      Board Member Paul Glover MOVED to approve the consent agenda.
             The motion was SECONDED by Board Member Heidi Robinson. Chair
             Stevenson called for discussion on the motion. There being none he
             called for a roll call vote. The voting was as follows:
                    Board Member Bryant Brown Aye
                    Board Member Dustin Gettel        Aye
                    Board Member Paul Glover          Aye
                    Board Member Bonnie Billings Aye
                                           1
Proceedings of Redevelopment Agency Board Meeting
February 20 , 2024


                   Board Member Heidi Robinson Aye
              The motion passed unanimously.

IV.     ACTION ITEM
        A.     DISCUSSION AND CONSIDERATION OF RESOLUTION NO. 2024-
               0SRDA WAIVING THE ART HOUSE USAGE FEE FOR CRAFT LAKE
               CITY FROM MARCH 1, 2024 TO MARCH 2, 2024 FOR THE
               LETTERWEST CONFERENCE
Kate Andrus said the Redevelopment Agency has commissioned Craft Lake City to
organize the annual LetterWest conference, scheduled for March 2, 2024, on Midvale
Main, as established by an agreement executed on November 15, 2023. This one-day
event is designed to attract design professionals, artists, muralists, small businesses,
entrepreneurs, and diverse creative minds, showcasing Midvale's cultural vibrancy and
supporting the local creative economy. To enhance the conference experience, Craft Lake
City plans to activate the Art House and conduct a workshop for attendees, requiring
access and use of the Art House from March 1, 2024 , to March 2, 2024. The associated
rental fee for these dates is $480. Agency staff recommends waiving this fee, deeming it
in the Agency's best interest, as the event's inclusion on Midvale Main aligns with the
area's overarching goals.

Fiscal Impact: No fiscal impact is anticipated . The Agency's substantial funding
contribution to the LetterWest conference ensures its successful execution . Imposing a
usage fee would only curtail the event's potential.

Board Member Bryant Brown said that it's silly that the Board is deciding on a matter of
such low cost. Future approvals of under $500 should be allowed to be approved by the
city manager.

MOTION:       Board Member Bryant Brown MOVED to suspend the rules and adopt
              Resolution No. 2024-0SRDA, Waiving the Art House Usage Fee for
              Craft Lake City for their production of the LetterWest Conference. The
              motion was SECONDED by Board Member Heidi Robinson. Chair
              Stevenson called for discussion on the motion. There being none he
              called for a roll call vote. The voting was as follows:
                     Board Member Bryant Brown Aye
                     Board Member Dustin Gettel        Aye
                     Board Member Paul Glover          Aye
                     Board Member Bonnie Billings Aye
                     Board Member Heidi Robinson Aye
              The motion passed unanimously.

V.     DISCUSSION ITEM

       A.     DISCUSSION REGARDING THE BAMBINO MIDVALE MAIN BUSINESS
              LOAN
                                              2
Proceedings of Redevelopment Agency Board Meeting
February 20, 2024


Kate Andrus said Agency staff received a loan request from The Bambino, a proposed
local pizzeria, for $250,000. Staff has reviewed and evaluated the loan application based
on program guidelines and criteria. It has been determined that the applicant meets the
required threshold for consideration . As the loan request exceeds $25,000, the terms of
the loan agreement are being presented to the RDA Board for discussion and eventual
final approval.

With most of the building res1oration being handled by the property owners, The Bambino
is requesting funding to implement the additional tenant improvements crucial to creating
a unique restaurant , xperience with both indoor, patio and rooftop dining. The
establishment aims to offer Neapolitan pizzas on one side and decadent artisan desserts
on the other. The proposed tenant improvement plan covers various aspects, including
the installation of flooring, decor, paint, signage, plumbing, electrical work, and finishes
for the garden and rooftop patio . In addition , funding will also be used for inventory,
marketing and working capita"i.

As part of staff's review, it has been determined that the application exceeds the minimum
required threshold. The scores on key criteria demonstrates that the funds provided will
contribute to attracting and promoting the growth of businesses and activation within the
Main Street Area.

Furthermore, the loan proposal from The Bambino received strong scores under the
Public Benefit Criteria, attaining full points in the areas of 1) Economic Impact, 2) Historic
Character, 3) Beautification , and 4) Street Activation , making it a qualified applicant for
the 0% loan incentive.

Considering these findings , Agency staff recommends approving a loan of $250,000 to
The Bambino LLC , with the terms outlined in the attached Term Sheet. This
recommendation is based on a review of the applicant's proposal and supporting financial
documents by Agency staff..

Fiscal Impact: The current program budget is $750,000 to be utilized for individual loans.
If approved , the RDA will provide a $250 ,000 loan to The Bambino. This will bring the
current overall budget for the revolving loan programs to $500 ,000 to be loaned to
additional projects.

David Gardner, owner of The Bambino, spoke about their new restaurant which will have
pizza on one side and desserts on the other side.

The Board expressed their excitement for this new restaurant and the concept.

Caitlin Beck explained why they chose The Bambino to occupy the space.

VI.    ADJOURN

                                              3
Proceedings of Redevelopment Agency Board Meeting
February 20, 2024


MOTION:       Board Member Paul Glover MOVED to adjourn the meeting. The
              motion was SECONDED by Board Member Dustin Gettel. Chair
              Stevenson called for discussion on the motion. There being none he
              called for a vote. The motion passed unanimously.

The meeting adjourned at 9:05 p.m.



~~
~ AnKrea;on~C
City Recorder

Approved this 12th day of March, 2023.




                                              4
