                        REDEVELOPMENT AGENCY MEETING
                                    Minutes
                             Tuesday August 6, 2024

                                   Council Chambers
                                  7505 S Holden Street
                                  Midvale, Utah 84047


CHAIR:                       Marcus Stevenson

BOARD MEMBERS:              Board Member Paul Glover
                            Board Member Bonnie Billings - Excused
                            Board Member Dustin Gettel
                            Board Member Bryant Brown
                            Board Member Heidi Robinson

STAFF:        Nate Rockwood, Assistant City Manager; Rori Andreason, City Recorder;
              Garrett Wilcox, City Attorney; Mariah Hill, Administrative Services Director;
              Adam Olsen, Community Development Director; Laura Magness,
              Communications Director; Meggie Troili, RDA Project Manager; Cody Hill,
              Economic Development Director; Wendelin Knobloch, Planning Director;
              Chief Randy Thomas, UPD; and Juan Rosario, Systems Administrator.

Chair Stevenson called the meeting to order at 6:05 p.m.

I.    GENERAL BUSINESS
      A. Roll Call - Board Members Dustin Gettel, Bryant Brown, Heidi Robinson, and
      Paul Glover were present at roll call. Board Member Bonnie Billings was excused.

II.     PUBLIC COMMENTS
Shae said she has spoken to Dustin a few times about the city creating a fenced dog
park, a fenced in dog park that is accessible to the residents of Midvale is desperately
needed. She has a service dog that she takes off leash at the park to train, she runs into
problems with bystanders, and she is currently battling with other cities over this same
issue. She is also requesting speed bumps on 7th Avenue, she lives on that road and
said cars are going 30 miles per hour down the street, she has submitted application for
speed bumps and heard nothing back. When she spoke to the city she was told once the
apartments are built and the food truck plaza is done the city will look at that issue, she
thinks safety for citizens and kids should be the priority, not construction. She also is
reporting that on 8000 South 480 East there are no school zone signs or lights for the
second crosswalk. She spoke to Roland and was told the city would look at it. She said a
lot of cars don’t slow down because they don’t know that that area is a school zone. She
appreciates the murals and how they add to the city.

Chair Stevenson directed her to the fenced dog park in Midvale on Adams Street.
                                             1
Proceedings of Redevelopment Agency Board Meeting
August 6, 2024



III.   CONSENT AGENDA
       A.  CONSIDER MINUTES OF July 16, 2024

MOTION:       Board Member Paul Glover MOVED to approve the consent agenda.
              The motion was SECONDED by Board Member Heidi Robinson. Chair
              Stevenson called for discussion on the motion. There being none he
              called for a roll call vote. The voting was as follows:
                     Board Member Bryant Brown Aye
                     Board Member Dustin Gettel        Aye
                     Board Member Paul Glover          Aye
                     Board Member Bonnie Billings Absent
                     Board Member Heidi Robinson Aye
              The motion passed unanimously.
IV.   PUBLIC HEARING
      A.    CONSIDER AMENDING THE FISCAL YEAR 2025 BUDGET FOR THE
            MAIN STREET PROJECT AREA FUND AND CITY-WIDE HOUSING
            FUND.
Cody Hill said Staff proposes amendments to the fiscal year 2025 budget for
Redevelopment Agency Funds, the Main Street Project Area Fund and City-Wide
Housing Fund

Main Street Project Area Fund
Expense Budget Adjustment: $61,763 – Per the Second Amendment to the Purchase
Agreement between the Agency and The Court Partners, LLC. (“Developer”), executed
on April 16, 2024, the Agency will reimburse Developer for expenses related to the
development of a bulb-out on the west side of their development located at 7555 S. Main.
Although this expense was approved in the Second Amendment to the Purchase
Agreement, funds were not appropriated in the FY2025 budget to cover the expense. This
expense increase would be added to a new account “Developer Reimbursement” within
the fund.

City-Wide Housing Fund
Expense Budget Adjustment: $2,500,000 – Staff requests this amount be added to the
Affordable Housing Incentives expense account. The Agency recently received an Upper-
floor Housing Initiative application. The applicant requested more funds to support their
project and their proposed affordable housing offering than currently budgeted in the
account. If adopted, the account’s expense will increase from $4,000,000 to $6,500,000.

FISCAL IMPACT:
Both Funds have sufficient fund balances to accommodate the increases in expenditure.
The bulb-out increases the aesthetic and charm of Main Street and will support activating
and improving the area. The increased expense in affordable housing will increase the
affordable housing availability within the Main Street area and reduce the fund’s fund
                                              2
Proceedings of Redevelopment Agency Board Meeting
August 6, 2024


balance, which the Agency must do to remain compliant with newly adopted state
requirements as found in HB 465.




                                              3
Proceedings of Redevelopment Agency Board Meeting
August 6, 2024




                                              4
Proceedings of Redevelopment Agency Board Meeting
August 6, 2024




                                              5
Proceedings of Redevelopment Agency Board Meeting
August 6, 2024




MOTION:       Board Member Dustin Gettel MOVED to open the public comment
              portion of the public hearing. The motion was SECONDED by Board
              Member Heidi Robinson. Chair Stevenson called for discussion on the
              motion. There being none, he called for a vote. The motion passed
              unanimously.

No public comments

MOTION:       Board Member Dustin Gettel MOVED to close the public hearing. The
              motion was SECONDED by Board Member Heidi Robinson. Chair
              Stevenson called for discussion on the motion. There being none, he
              called for a vote. The motion passed unanimously.

              ACTION: Consider Resolution No. 2024-20RDA Amending the Fiscal
              Year 2025 Budget for the Main Street Project Area Fund and City-Wide
              Housing Fund.


MOTION:       Board Member Dustin Gettel MOVED to approve Resolution No. 2024-
              20RDA Amending the Fiscal Year 2025 Budget for the Main Street
              Project Area Fund and City-Wide Housing Fund. The motion was
              SECONDED by Board Member Heidi Robinson. Chair Stevenson
              called for discussion on the motion. There being none he called for a
              roll call vote. The voting was as follows:
                     Board Member Bryant Brown Aye
                     Board Member Dustin Gettel       Aye
                                              6
Proceedings of Redevelopment Agency Board Meeting
August 6, 2024


                   Board Member Paul Glover     Aye
                   Board Member Bonnie Billings Absent
                   Board Member Heidi Robinson Aye
              The motion passed unanimously.

V.     ACTION ITEM
       A.   CONSIDER RESOLUTION NO. 2021-21RDA APPROVING THE INITIAL
            TERMS FOR AN AFFORDABLE HOUSING INCENTIVE THROUGH THE
            MAIN STREET UPPER FLOOR HOUSING INITIATIVE FOR THE BLACK
            PINE, LLC. MIXED-USE DEVELOPMENT LOCATED AT 7592 SOUTH
            MAIN STREET, MIDVALE.
Meggie Troili said Black Pine (“Applicant”) recently applied for an affordable housing
incentive through the Main Street Upper Floor Housing Initiative (the “Initiative”) to include
affordable housing in their West Main mixed-use development (the “Project”) located at
7592 Main Street, Midvale. The Applicants application has been reviewed and
recommended for funding by a committee comprised of Redevelopment Agency (the
“RDA” or “Agency”) and City staff.

The Main Street Upper Floor Housing Initiative was approved by the RDA Board in 2019
and is supported by the Agency's dedicated affordable housing funds. The Initiative aims
to provide up to 50% of the total rehabilitation and/or development costs of the residential
component of a project to be used for affordable housing. Units must be high-quality
affordable housing for households who fall at or below 80% of the Area Median Income
(AMI). To date, the Initiative has been utilized to support the creation of 16 affordable
housing units on Midvale Main Street.

The total cost of the West Main Project is approximately 19M, and Black Pine applied for
an incentive amount of $6,254,275 to cover 50% of the development costs associated
with fifty (50) out of the Projects sixty-six (66) total residential units. These fifty (50) units
would be deed restricted for low-income households.

 After the committees’ thorough review of the Applicants Initiative application, Agency
staff recommends an affordable housing incentive of $6,254,275. This funding will enable
the creation of fifty (50) one-bedroom affordable housing units on Midvale Main Street.
These housing units will be available for a term of 20 years only to households whose
income is not greater than an average of 60% of the AMI as defined by Salt Lake County's
annual AMI levels, in accordance with the guidelines set by the Department of Housing
and Urban Development. To ensure long-term affordability, these units will be subject to
deed restrictions, held by the RDA, to that effect as consideration for the funding provided.

Documentation of pre-approval is needed for Black Pine to secure financing for the
Project at this time. Once the foundational terms are approved by the RDA Board, the
Agency will release a pre-approval letter to the Applicant. This letter will serve only as
pre-approval of Black Pines Initiative application. This letter is not a guarantee or

                                                7
Proceedings of Redevelopment Agency Board Meeting
August 6, 2024


commitment to lend, loan, or provide money for the project, but will enable the Applicant
to secure financing for the Project.

FISCAL IMPACT: $6,254,275




                                              8
Proceedings of Redevelopment Agency Board Meeting
August 6, 2024




                                              9
Proceedings of Redevelopment Agency Board Meeting
August 6, 2024




                                              10
Proceedings of Redevelopment Agency Board Meeting
August 6, 2024




                                              11
Proceedings of Redevelopment Agency Board Meeting
August 6, 2024




                                              12
Proceedings of Redevelopment Agency Board Meeting
August 6, 2024




                                              13
Proceedings of Redevelopment Agency Board Meeting
August 6, 2024




                                              14
Proceedings of Redevelopment Agency Board Meeting
August 6, 2024




                                              15
Proceedings of Redevelopment Agency Board Meeting
August 6, 2024




Board Member Dustin Gettel asked if the dog park would be open to the public and what
is the size.

Jeff Beck with Black Pine Group said it will be located on the rooftop of the building but
he doesn’t know the exact size and due to liability concerns it will only be available to the
tenants.
                                              16
Proceedings of Redevelopment Agency Board Meeting
August 6, 2024



Chair Stevenson asked if all 66 units are one bedroom.

Jeff Beck said there is a mix of one bedroom, two bedroom, and studio units. The majority
of the one-bedroom units will be the affordable units.

Chair Stevenson asked why there are no two-bedroom affordable units.

Jeff Beck said that from an economics standpoint it works out better for only the one
bedroom units to fall into the affordable category. The project, once approved, is expected
to be done in the fall of 2025.


MOTION:       Board Member Dustin Gettel MOVED to suspend the rules and
              approve RESOLUTION NO. 2024-21RDA Approving the Initial Terms
              for an Affordable Housing Incentive Through the Main Street Upper
              Floor Housing Initiative for the Black Pine, LLC. Mixed-Use
              Development Located at 7592 South Main Street Midvale. The motion
              was SECONDED by Board Member Heidi Robinson. Chair Stevenson
              called for discussion on the motion. There being none he called for a
              roll call vote. The voting was as follows:
                             Board Member Bryant Brown Aye
                             Board Member Dustin Gettel Aye
                             Board Member Paul Glover     Aye
                             Board Member Bonnie Billings Absent
                             Board Member Heidi Robinson Aye
                     The motion passed unanimously.

VI.    ADJOURN

MOTION:       Board Member Paul Glover MOVED to adjourn the meeting. The
              motion was SECONDED by Board Member Dustin Gettel. Chair
              Stevenson called for discussion on the motion. There being none he
              called for a vote. The motion passed unanimously.


The meeting was adjourned at 6:29 p.m.



Rori L. Andreason, MMC
City Recorder

Approved this September 3, 2024.

                                              17
