                                    CITY COUNCIL MEETING
                                           Minutes

                                   Tuesday February 20, 2024
                                       Council Chambers
                                    7505 South Holden Street
                                      Midvale, Utah 84047


MAYOR:                      Mayor Marcus Stevenson

COUNCIL MEMBERS:            Council Member Paul Glover
                            Council Member Bonnie Billings
                            Council Member Dustin Gettel
                            Council Member Bryant Brown
                            Council Member Heidi Robinson

STAFF:        Matt Dahl, City Manager; Nate Rockwood, Assistant City Manager; Rori Andreason,
              HR Director/City Recorder; Garrett Wilcox, City Attorney; Glen Kennedy, Public
              Works Director; Mariah Hill, Administrative Services Director; Erinn Summers,
              Project and Policy Manager; Kate Andrus, RDA Program Manager; Wendelin
              Knobloch, Planning Director; Christian Larsen , Assistant Finance Director; Jonathan
              Anderson, Planner II; Adam Olsen, Community Development Director; Randy
              Thomas, UPD; Chief Brad Larson, UFA; and Juan Rosario, Systems Administrator.

6:00 PM - WORKSHOP
   • Trans Jordan Landfill Update [Glen Kennedy, Public Works Director]

Glen Kennedy introduced Kane Loader, Chair of the Trans Jordan Board.

Kane Loader reviewed the history of the Landfill. He introduced Jaren Scott, General Manager,
and Jill Fletcher, Education Outreach , from the Trans Jordan Landfill to discuss the changes
with the Landfill.

Mr. Scott said the new Sandy transfer station is forecasted to open early Spring 2025. The
South Jordan Transfer Station is forecasted to open in 2032. There are 4.7 million tons of
landfill space available at the current site. Approximately 8.5 years of life remaining with current
economic projections (3% annual growth) . After the landfill closure, the site will be maintained
for 30+ years with adherence to post closure requirements from EPA and DEQ. He discussed
how household hazardous waste including oil, paint, batteries, and other household chemicals
will be taken free of charge from residents through a partnership with the Salt Lake County
Health Department. The household hazardous waste is dropped off but still useable items are
placed in their reuse shed and available for residents to pick up free of charge. He discussed
the Sandy Transfer Station design and use in detail. He also discussed recycling and the
recycling facility transparency amendments that were passed through the legislature. The
amendment requires a recyclable material hauler to report data to political subdivisions about
the amount of recycling materials collected. It requires a recycling facility to submit an annual
report on the amount of recycling material collected to the division of waste management and
radiation control; and requires a political subdivision to publish the recycling data.
Proceedings of City Council Meeting
February 20, 2024


Jill Fletcher discussed her educational outreach program where she visits schools to give
presentations on the Landfill and offers tours.

6:30 PM - REGULAR MEETING

Mayor Marcus Stevenson called the business meeting to order at 6:35 p.m.

I.     GENERAL BUSINESS
       A.  WELCOME AND PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE

       B.     ROLL CALL - Council Members Heidi Robinson, Dustin Gettel, Bryant Brown,
              Bonnie Billings, and Paul Glover were present at roll call.

        C.     UNIFIED POLICE DEPARTMENT REPORT
Chief Randy Thomas reviewed the stats for calls showing a small trend down this year in
comparison to last year, but still in the middle over 5 years . Chief Thomas gave an update
concerning the homicide that occurred on January 4 th . The suspect was arrested in California
where the US Marshalls surveilled the suspect and effected the arrest. The suspect has multiple
violations in California that will be processed before the suspect can be extradited to Utah.

Chief Thomas contacted UOOT about pedestrian traffic at 115 and 7200 South on the south side
of the intersection under the underpass. His concern is how difficult it is to see pedestrians under
those underpasses, particularly when it's dark. UDOT has turned the lights on under 2 of the 3
underpasses, the remaining lights need to be upgraded which will take time and money. Chief
Thomas has asked UDOT to observe the intersection after dark to assess safety improvements.
He will report back when he has more information.

Chief Thomas said he would like to highlight and praise the work his officers did handling a single
incident that happened this last weekend . Officers were dispatched to a domestic call at Bingham
Junction where they stopped a suspicious vehicle. Upon stopping the vehicle, two gunshots were
heard. The officers relied on their training and were able to clear the vehicle safely, resulting in an
arrest and no injuries were reported.

The Road Home is working on a way to support asylum seekers and obtain services that are
currently not available to them.

Chief Thomas reported that with the installation of the improved security cameras at the entrance
of City Hall officers may be able to identify the individual responsible for breaking windows at City
Hall.

He also reported that a warrant was served this afternoon at Motel 6 on a suspect that had made
threats to staff and law enforcement. For the safety of everyone involved, the Swat team was
called and the suspect was taken into custody; however, he did assault one of the police canines.
The dog will recover.



                                                   2
Proceedings of City Council Meeting
February 20, 2024


Council member Dustin Gettel asked what the charges are for assaulting a police dog. Chief
Thomas explained that they are the same charges as assaulting a police officer.

11.    PUBLIC COMMENTS
Lorene Butler welcomed Bonnie Billings as a new council member. She also wanted to thank
Adam, Wendelin, Elizabeth and the Mayor for responding to her emails and questions. She said
she wants to know how the duplex overlay zone works. She asked that Birch Street have a
moratorium from building any more duplexes, because the parking is horrendous and there is a
problem with construction related traffic and parking. She will email her remaining comments to
the council members.

Ill.  MAYOR REPORT
Mayor Stevenson stated that today there has been a significant push from the business
community and mayors across Salt Lake County for the legislature to fully fund Governor Cox's
homelessness budget. This Thursday Midvale City is holding one of two meetings for businesses
along 7200 South, between 115 and State Street, to address concerns about crime and
homelessness in that area .

He also wanted to put out a reminder that this Thursday evening from 6-8pm is the Parks and Rec
Open House at the West Jordan Library. He's hoping for a big turnout and wants attendees to
remember to mark that they are Midvale residents on their cards. And don't forget about the Fort
Union Corridor Study Open House at Ganesh Indian Cuisine on Wednesday, March 6 at 5:30pm.

IV.     COUNCIL REPORTS
        A.      Council Member Paul Glover - Emphasized the importance of attending the
meeting for the recreation center. Council Member Glover also received an email from Unique
Autobody about the possibility of a rezone on a piece of property they are looking at. He would
like the City to review the request and possibly come up with some ideas to help this move along .
He believes it will benefit the city as well as Unique Autobody.

       B.     Council Member Bonnie Billings - had nothing to report.

       C.     Council Member Dustin Gettel - said he was contacted by the chair of the
Association of Municipal Councils; they still have him as the Midvale City representative on that
board. He informed them that he is willing to continue serving on the AMC board. He did attend
the last meeting and the guest speaker was Sherrif Rosie Rivera. She was there to talk about the
Unified Police Dept. dissolution. He also wanted to thank Public Works for the removal of two
mattresses left curbside on Ivy Drive . There is a lot of junk and garbage in that area east on Ivy
Drive, and south on 700 West to Sandy Parkway is also littered with junk and garbage. He asked
for special attention to be paid to cleaning up the parcels and park strips as the new park is
promoted in that area.

       D.      Council Member Bryant Brown - said he agreed with Council Member Gettel
about cleaning up the Ivy Drive area . He also agrees with the comments about Birch Street. The
commercial trucks should not be using that road . He'd like to look at current Ordinances in search
of a resolution to that problem.
                                                 3
Proceedings of City Council Meeting
February 20, 2024



       E.     Council Member Heidi Robinson - had nothing to report.

V.     CITY MANAGER REPORT
       Matt Dahl said March 28 th is the budget retreat date. No location has been chosen yet.

VI.    CONSENT
       A.  CONSIDER MINUTES OF FEBRUARY 6, 2024

MOTION:       Council Member Paul Glover MOVED to Approve the Consent Agenda. The
              motion was SECONDED by Council Member Heidi Robinson. Mayor
              Stevenson called for discussion on the motion. There being none, he called
              for a roll call vote. The voting was as follows:
                     Council Member Bonnie Billings         Aye
                     Council Member Paul Glover             Aye
                     Council Member Heidi Robinson          Aye
                     Council Member Bryant Brown            Aye
                     Council Member Dustin Gettel           Aye
              The motion passed unanimously.

VII.   ACTION ITEMS
       A.   CONSIDER APPROVAL OF RESOLUTIONS NO.S 2024-R-07, 2024-R-08, 2024-
             R-09, AND 2024-R-10 APPOINTING MEMBERS TO THE MIDVALE CITY
             PLANNING COMMISSION MEMBERS
Wendelin Knobloch said the Midvale City Planning Commission consists of five full and two
alternate members who serve four-year terms. The Commission is responsible for administering
land use regulations as established in Utah Code 10-9a-301 and 302 , which includes making
recommendations to the City Council on land use policy. Commissioners prepare for and attend
bi-monthly meetings and participate in state mandated training . They provide an altruistic service
to the community and function as an unbiased appointed public body.

Candy Tippets' , Robyn Anderson's, and Dustin Snow's terms are expiring. All of them are diligent
full members of the Planning Commission and volunteered to continue their service for an
additional term. Michael Edwards is proposed to fill an alternate member slot that was recently
vacated.

STAFF RECOMMENDATION Staff recommended approval of the resolutions to appoint Candy
Tippetts, Robyn Anderson, Dustin Snow, and Michael Edwards to the Midvale City Planning
Commission.

MOTION:       Council Member Dustin Gettel MOVED to Approve Resolutions No. 2024-R-07
              Appointing Candy Tippetts as full member of the Midvale City Planning
              Commission. The motion was SECONDED by Council Member Heidi
              Robinson. Mayor Stevenson called for discussion on the motion. There being
              none, he called for a roll call vote. The voting was as follows:


                                                 4
Proceedings of City Council Meeting
February 20, 2024


                   Council Member Bonnie Billings        Aye
                   Council Member Paul Glover            Aye
                   Council Member Heidi Robinson         Aye
                   Council Member Bryant Brown           Aye
                   Council Member Dustin Gettel          Aye
              The motion passed unanimously.

MOTION:       Council Member Bryant Brown MOVED to Approve Resolutions No. 2024-R-
              08 Appointing Robyn Anderson as a full member of the Midvale City Planning
              Commission. The motion was SECONDED by Council Member Heidi
              Robinson. Mayor Stevenson called for discussion on the motion. There being
              none, he called for a roll call vote. The voting was as follows:
                    Council Member Bonnie Billings           Aye
                    Council Member Paul Glover               Aye
                    Council Member Heidi Robinson            Aye
                    Council Member Bryant Brown              Aye
                    Council Member Dustin Gettel             Aye
              The motion passed unanimously.

MOTION:       Council Member Heidi Robinson MOVED to Approve Resolutions No. 2024-R-
              09 Appointing Dustin Snow as a full member of the Midvale City Planning
              Commission. The motion was SECONDED by Council Member Paul Glover.
              Mayor Stevenson called for discussion on the motion. There being none, he
              called for a roll call vote. The voting was as follows:
                     Council Member Bonnie Billings          Aye
                     Council Member Paul Glover              Aye
                     Council Member Heidi Robinson           Aye
                     Council Member Bryant Brown             Aye
                     Council Member Dustin Gettel            Aye
              The motion passed unanimously.

Council Member Dustin Gettel said he wants to make sure there are full planning commission
members from every district of the City.

MOTION:       Council Member Bonnie Billings MOVED to Approve Resolutions No. 2024-R-
              10 Appointing Michael Edwards as alternate member of the Midvale City
              Planning Commission. The motion was SECONDED by Council Member Heidi
              Robinson. Mayor Stevenson called for discussion on the motion. There being
              none, he called for a roll call vote. The voting was as follows:
                    Council Member Bonnie Billings           Aye
                    Council Member Paul Glover               Aye
                    Council Member Heidi Robinson            Aye
                    Council Member Bryant Brown              Aye
                    Council Member Dustin Gettel             Aye
              The motion passed unanimously.


                                            5
Proceedings of City Council Meeting
February 20, 2024



       B.      CONSIDER RESOLUTION NO. 2024-R-11 ADOPTING THE MIDVALE BINGHAM
               JUNCTION STATION AREA PLAN
Adam Olsen said in 2022 the Utah State Legislature passed HB 462 which, among other things,
requires municipalities with fixed rail guideways (commuter and light rail) to prepare and adopt
station area plans (SAP) covering a half mile radius of each fixed rail station. SAP's may be unique
to their jurisdiction and setting; however, key aspects are to include strategies to increase the
availability of affordable housing, promotion of sustainable environmental conditions,
enhancements of access to employment opportunities and increase of transportation choices and
connections.

Midvale has three stations within its boundaries: Midvale Ft. Union, Midvale Center and Bingham
Junction. The Midvale Ft. Union and Midvale Center Station Area Plan was adopted by the City
Council on January 16, 2024. The Bingham Junction Station Area Plan is ready for adoption.

Design Workshop, the consultant group commissioned to prepare the Bingham Junction SAP will
lead the discussion and presentation at the February 20th City Council meeting. They will highlight
recommendations of the plan and proposed implementation steps.

Upon Council adoption of the SAP, staff will submit a request for certification to Wasatch Front
Regional Council (WFRC) and the Utah Transit Authority (UTA). Certification by WFRC and UTA
will place the City in compliance with the State as required in HB 462.

STAFF RECOMMENDATION Approval of the resolution adopting the Midvale Bingham Junction
SAP.

Chris Gettes reviewed the Bingham Junction Station Area Plan in detail.

Council Member Dustin Gettel said he would like to see a dog park and sidewalk.

Council Member Bryant Brown asked why West Jordan is approved to build 50 luxury homes on
a large area and Midvale is approved for higher density.

Chris Gettes replied that Gardner Village would not support high density. They want to retain the
character and history of Gardner Village. Also, the UTA property on the Gardner Village side is
smaller than the UTA property on the Midvale City side.

MOTION:       Council Member Dustin Gettel MOVED to Approve Resolution No. 2024-R-11
              Adopting the Midvale Bingham Junction Station Area Plan. The motion was
              SECONDED by Council Member Heidi Robinson. Mayor Stevenson called for
              discussion on the motion. There being none, he called for a roll call vote. The
              voting was as follows:
                    Council Member Bonnie Billings       Aye
                    Council Member Paul Glover           Aye
                    Council Member Heidi Robinson        Aye
                    Council Member Bryant Brown          Aye
                                                 6
Proceedings of City Council Meeting
February 20, 2024


                   Council Member Dustin Gettel                   Aye
              The motion passed unanimously.


       C.      CONSIDER RESOLUTION NO. 2024-R-12 AUTHORIZING MIDVALE CITY STAFF
               TO SUBMIT A BALLOT ON BEHALF OF MIDVALE CITY FOR THE ENDO
               INTERNATIONAL PLC PROPOSED CHAPTER 11 PLAN REORGANIZATION
Garrett Wilcox said two weeks ago, Midvale City received a ballot to accept, reject, or abstain
from Endo International PLC's second amended , joint Chapter 11 Plan of Reorganization. The
ballot indicates that Midvale City is a holder of a claim in a local government class action opioid
claim against Endo International and its subsidiaries. Midvale City has not participated in this
litigation.

In the proposed bankruptcy reorganization plan, Midvale City may participate in the public opioid
trust if it accepts the proposed plan. Midvale City will release all claims against Endo International
in exchange for its participation in the public opioid trust. Because Midvale City does not directly
provide services related to the opioid epidemic, it is unlikely that the City will receive any direct
financial benefit. However, staff do not want to foreclose the possibility of participating in the public
opioid trust if resources and finances are available to assist the community through the State or
Salt Lake County.

Midvale has previously participated in other opioid national settlements in coordination with the
Utah Office of the Attorney General. On December 14, 2021, the City Council approved Resolution
No. 2021-R-40 authorizing Mayor Hale to register the City in the national opioid settlement with
McKesson, Cardinal Health, AmerisourceBergen, Janssen Pharmaceuticals, and Johnson &
Johnson. On April 4, 2023, the City Council approved Resolution No. 2023-R-14 authorizing
Mayor Stevenson to register the City in the national opioid settlement with Allergan, Teva, CVS,
Walgreen's, and Walmart. In both of these instances, the settlement amount available to the State
and counties was directly dependent on the number of municipalities who joined the settlement.

Staff has contacted the Utah Office of the Attorney General to coordinate its response with the
proposed bankruptcy plan for Endo International. We hope to coordinate our response with the
State to maximize the available resources available to Utah, Salt Lake County, and, indirectly, our
community. Due to how recently these ballots were provided, the Attorney General's Office does
not have a position on the plan as of the date this report was drafted. The Attorney General's
Office is reviewing the proposed plan and has indicated that it will attempt to coordinate with the
City.

Staff suggests that the City follows its past practice of coordinating its response with the State to
maximize the resources available to serve our community. In the event that we are unable to
coordinate our response with the State due to the short notice provided to both parties, staff
recommends that we accept the proposed Endo International bankruptcy plan so that the City
does not foreclose its ability to participate in the public opioid trust.




                                                    7
Proceedings of City Council Meeting
February 20, 2024


STAFF RECOMMENDATION Staff recommended approval of Resolution No. 2024-R-12 which
authorizes Midvale City staff to submit a ballot on behalf of Midvale City for the Endo International
PLC proposed Chapter 11 Plan of Reorganization .

MOTION:       Council Member Dustin Gettel MOVED to Approve Resolution No. 2024-R-12
              Authorizing Midvale City staff to submit a ballot on behalf of Midvale City for
              the Endo International PLC proposed Chapter 11 Plan of Reorganization. The
              motion was SECONDED by Council Member Heidi Robinson. Mayor
              Stevenson called for discussion on the motion . There being none, he called
              for a roll call vote. The voting was as follows:
                     Council Member Bonnie Billings         Aye
                     Council Member Paul Glover             Aye
                     Council Member Heidi Robinson          Aye
                     Council Member Bryant Brown            Aye
                     Council Member Dustin Gettel           Aye
              The motion passed unanimously.

VIII.  DISCUSSION ITEMS
       A. DISCUSS PROPOSED AMENDMENTS TO THE FY2024 BUDGET
Christian Larsen said staff proposes amendments to the fiscal year 2024 budget for the General
Fund, Capital Projects Fund , Water Fund , Sewer Fund, Storm Water Fund , Fleet Fund , and
Information Technology Fund.

General Fund
Revenue and Expense Budget Adjustments $258,380 - Staff has identified a number of
adjustments that need to be made to the fiscal year 2024 budget, as detailed in the attached
document. Below are the major proposed adjustments:
   • General Engineering - $26,900 - Professional services, engineering studies planned in
      FY24 .
   • General Engineering - $10,500 - Communications and telephone, Verizon charges for
      iPad LTE.
   • Public Works Administration - $25,540 - Employee benefits, Employee benefits
      selection changed.
   • Planning and Zoning - $29,400 - Professional services , General Plan re-write.
   • Community Development - $21,500 - Professional Services, CD fee rate study.
   • Community Development- $18,340 - Professional Services, economic projects .
   • Communications - $45,600 - Software, unspent prior year budget, City website redesign .
   • Employee Services - $12,500 - Miscellaneous Supplies, FY2023 unexpended budget for
      Employee Gift.
   • Finance - ($52,500)         Salaries, Procurement Analyst position now under Legal
      department.
   • Finance - ($43,500) - Benefits, Procurement Analyst position now under Legal
      department
   • City Attorney - $87,400 - Salaries , Procurement Analyst position now under Legal
      department I Internal promotion .

                                                  8
     Proceedings of City Council Meeting
     February 20, 2024


        •   City Attorney - $18,500- Benefits, Procurement Analyst position now under Legal
            department I Internal promotion .
--      •   Community/ Inter-Gov Relations - $35,000 - Youth Violence Coalition Ad min , additional
            grant funds available for coalition administration.
        •   Nonmajor adjustments - $23,200 - Breakdown of nonmajor adjustments detailed in
            attached document.

     Capital Projects Fund Staff requests an increase of $1,943,200 to the FY2024 Capital Projects
     Fund budget. The majority of this increase is for pavement management and transportation
     projects $1,415,000. These projects were originally planned for FY2023 but were not completed
     and are now part of the FY2024 budget. A detailed list of all projects in this budget amendment is
     included in the attached document.

     Water and Sewer Fund Staff requests an increase to the professional services budget for both
     funds : $9 ,000 for the Water Fund and $50,642 for the Sewer Fund. The Water Fund requires
     funding for water system modeling and engineering services, while the Sewer Fund requires
     additional budgetary allocation for projects related to the Sewer Master Plan .

     Storm Water Fund Staff requests an increase of $41,400 to the Storm Water Fund . This increase
     is primarily to the professional services budget and will be used on the Storm Water Master Plan.
     These funds were previously budgeted during FY2023 but went unexpended during the fiscal
     year. $7,000 of this increase is dedicated to the fund 's overtime budget. The need for employee
     overtime was greater than originally anticipated .

     Fleet Fund The total requested increase to the Fleet Fund budget is $726,213. $411,804 of this
     increase is to purchase a Ford F550 and six Ford F150s that were budgeted for in prior fiscal
     years but were not available for purchase. $183 ,839 is for the purchase of a Caterpillar loader
     which is on a buyback plan with Caterpillar and be offset by the sale of the City's current loader.
     The Fleet Fund also replaced a Chevy Colorado and two crossovers totaling $130,570 which were
     also scheduled for replacement in prior fiscal years.

     Information Technology Fund The total requested increase to the Information Technology Fund
     budget is $21,000. $10,000 increase to the software budget for LastPass software licenses.
     $11,000 for hardware, including iPads for Engineering , computers for GIS, and Council IT
     peripherals

     FISCAL IMPACT: General Fund - Increase in budgeted expenditures of $258,380 and an
     increase to budgeted grant revenues of $35,000, sales tax revenue of $46 ,000 and an increase
     in use of fund balance of $177 ,380 .

     Capital Projects Fund - Increase in budgeted expenditures of $1,943,200 and an increase to
     budgeted revenues of $105,000 and an increase in use of fund balance of $1,838 ,200 .

     Water Fund - Increase in budgeted expenses of $9,000 and a decrease of contribution to fund

-    balance of $9,000.

                                                      9
Proceedings of City Council Meeting
February 20, 2024

                                                                                                        1
Sewer Fund - Increase in budgeted expenses of $50 ,642 and a decrease in contribution to fund
balance of $50,642.

Storm Water Fund - Increase in budgeted expenses of $41,400 and an increase in use of fund
balance of $41,400 .

Fleet Fund - Increase in budgeted expenses of $430,289 and an increase in budget revenues of
$183,839 and an increase in use of fund balance of $246,450.

Information Technology - Increase in budgeted expenses of $21 ,000 and an increase in use of
fund balance of $21 ,000.

Council Member Dustin Gettel said he would like to see replacement vehicles be electric vehicles.


       B. DISCUSSION ON THE REPLACEMENT OF THE SEWER DIVISION'S CCTV
           (CLOSED CIRCUIT TELEVISION) TRUCK AND EQUIPMENT
Glen Kennedy said the sewer division's CCTV Truck is on a 10-year replacement schedule and
is due for replacement.

CCTV equipment and software play a key role within sewer utilities for inspection, maintenance,
and management purposes. This equipment is instrumental for inspection and condition                    7
assessments and to detect blockages, cracks, leaks, and other structural defects within the sewer
system before they become major issues. In addition, this equipment and software will integrate
with our GIS mapping and records , documenting location , size material, and condition of pipes
providing valuable data for asset management and future planning.

The division held demos with a number of vendors in an effort to find the best software and
equipment package to fit the City's needs. Neverest Equipment and Wincan Software were
determined to be the best fit to achieve the inspections, assessments, and management of the
City's sewer infrastructure and to ensure compliance with State regulations, and cost-effective
operation and maintenance.

The cost via State Contract pricing to replace the truck/van and the internal CCTV equipment and
software is $270,000.00 .

After a thorough inspection of the current truck by our fleet staff. We are confident that we can get
another 7 years out of that truck. This will save approximately $100,000. $70,000 for the van itself
and $30,000 for internal equipment fitting (generator, sink, workspace, tool cabinets etc.).

FISCAL IMPACT: $168,402.24 via State contract - MA4267

The Council agreed to place this on the consent agenda for approval at the next meeting.


       C. BUSINESS SPONSORSHIPS FOR CITY EVENTS DISCUSSION
                                                 10
Proceedings of City Council Meeting
February 20, 2024


Erinn Summers said Midvale City has not regularly sought out sponsorships from businesses for
city-run events. Currently, Midvale City Code does not prohibit private sponsorships, however,
Midvale City Staff are required to come before the City Council prior to the acceptance of each
monetary or in-kind donation.

This year, the Harvest Days Festival Committee would like to pursue sponsorships to enhance
the offerings at the Harvest Days Festival, without additional cost to the taxpayers. This also gives
Midvale businesses an opportunity to actively engage in the Harvest Days Festival, of which
businesses have requested more ways to participate. The request to sponsor events has been
growing for many of Midvale's city-run events, as well as throughout the valley. Many
municipalities have adopted policies or procedures to allow for event sponsorships.

In reviewing how sponsorships could be beneficial to Midvale, and researching how other
communities have approached sponsorships , Midvale City staff is interested in developing a
sponsorship policy for city-run events. Staff are preparing a process that would authorize the City
Manager to consider and accept sponsorships that are under $5,000 in value and limited to
funding specific activities or purchases for an event. This process would include:
   • ensuring the sponsorship would meet the interest and values of the city,
   • the approval of the specific activities or items being sponsored,
   • acknowledgement of the sponsorship ,
   • reciprocity, and
   • criteria for the dissolution of sponsorship.

Council Member Dustin Gettel said he wants to use caution when pursuing and considering
sponsorship.

Matt Dahl made it clear that the City would be considering businesses that are a good fit for the
event. The Sponsors would have to apply and be vetted by the City.

Council Member Bryant Brown suggested that the City have something in place to avoid conflicts
of interest.

Council Member Heidi Robinson reminded the Council that seeking sponsorship would allow the
City to provide events and experiences that larger cities offer at their festivals .

Mayor Stevenson said he understands and wants to be cautious about perceived conflicts of
interest; however, he would like some flexibility with the business licensing piece.

Council Member Dustin Gettel said he would prefer the sponsorship decision stay with the staff
and not come before the council.


       D. DISCUSSION REGARDING AMENDMENTS TO CHAPTER 9.32.090 OF THE
          MIDVALE MUNICIPAL CODE REGARDING ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES IN PUBLIC
          PARKS AND PUBLIC PLACES

                                                 11
Proceedings of City Council Meeting
February 20, 2024


Kate Andrus discussed a redline copy of the Midvale City Municipal Code containing proposed
amendments that modify the existing regulations concerning the consumption of alcoholic
beverages in public parks and public places. Currently, Code 9.32.090 prohibits the consumption
and possession of alcohol on all public property and public right of ways. The catalyst for this code
amendment includes the recent ability for restaurant and entertainment businesses on Midvale
Main to enter use agreements for the use of bulb outs and other publicly owned property on
Midvale Main to enable outdoor dining . This amendment would allow those businesses with
appropriate liquor licenses to serve alcohol in these leased areas. In addition, it will provide the
opportunity for events to host beer gardens or other related activities. This will be pivotal in
activating Midvale Main through events, creating a controlled environment for the consumption of
alcohol when appropriate for the event.

The proposed amendment follows models adopted by similar cities, including Salt Lake City,
Ogden, Park City, and Moab. This amendment aims to provide a framework for allowing alcohol
consumption in public parks and public places under the following conditions and requirements:

1. Approved Site Plan Requirement: The proposed amendment allows the consumption and
possession of alcoholic beverages in specified public areas if the location is included in an
approved site plan filed with the city by a licensee.

2. Compliance with State and Local Regulations: The amendment specifies that any licensee
wishing to allow alcohol consumption must adhere to all state and local regulations related to the
sale and distribution of alcoholic beverages.

If approved, this proposed code amendment will enable certain permitted events and businesses
to serve, sell, and allow the consumption of alcohol on City-owned property. This will only be
allowed under the conditions and requirements stated above.

City staff believes that the proposed code amendment provides an approach that allows for
controlled and regulated alcohol consumption within specific public areas. It offers potential
benefits for local businesses and events while maintaining public safety and adherence to both
state and city regulations.

Council Member Dustin Gettel asked why the City needs to do this now.

Kate Andrus explained that the city code currently prohibits the consumption and possession of
alcohol on all public property and public right of ways, alcohol cannot be served in an outdoor
dining area even if all DABS regulations are met.

Council Member Gettel said he has concerns with alcohol being served in public spaces. He
doesn't want alcohol to be present at all city events.

Council Member Heidi Robinson said the businesses that serve alcohol have their license on the
line if they don't follow rules and regulations.

Council Member Bryant Brown agreed with Council Member Robinson.

                                                 12
         Proceedings of City Council Meeting
         February 20, 2024




,.____   X.     ADJOURN

         MOTION:       Council Member Paul Glover MOVED to adjourn the meeting . The motion was
                       SECONDED by Council Member Dustin Gettel. Mayor Stevenson called for
                       discussion on the motion. There being none, he called for a vote. The motion
                       passed unanimously.

         The meeting adjourned at 8:39 p.m.



                  -~
         Ro       ndreason,
         H.R.     ECTOR/CITY RECORDER

         Approved this 12th day of March 2024




                                                     13
                          Midvale City Public Comment
                                  Sign in Sheet

                              Tuesday, February 20, 2024

                               PUBLIC COMMENTS
Any person wishing to comment on any item not otherwise scheduled for public hearing on the
Agenda may address the City Council at this point by stepping to the microphone and giving his
or her name for the record. Comments should be limited to not more than three (3) minutes,
unless additional time is authorized by the Governing Body. Citizen groups will be asked to
appoint a spokesperson. This is the time and place for any person who wishes to comment on
non-hearing, non-Agenda items. Items brought forward to the attention of the City Council will
be turned over to staff to provide a response outside of the City Council meeting.

 NAME (PLEASE PRINT)                                                 ADDRESS

   L u ~'-fAA D   ~+fuf                      '-1 n 11 I ,   w tJ ~
                  Midvale City Council Meeting
                         Sign in Sheet

                      Tuesday, February 20, 2024


NAME (PLEASE PRINT)            ADDRESS             CITY
