_———_— LOCAL SCHOOL BOARD OF EDUCATION
§ WASHINGTON COUNTY
© stene-auorran “ — DYECLARATION OF CANDIDACY
CANDIDATE NAME: Lay Y al cy ers
Print name EXACTLY as it shall appear on the ballot. (No amendments or modifications after January 8, 2024, 5:00 pm)
THIS IS A PUBLIC FORM FOR DISPLAY ON THE COUNTY WEBSITE
Office to file for: WASHINGTON COUNTY SCHOOL BOARD
District #: (
Address (Home or mailing)
S3G( WN. 2600
St Geoevee, UT BATTO
OR
Phone: 439-66 6 =@Z2172.
Email (Optional): di xt ered al lican ez, 4 ahao.comM
Website (Optional):
x 7 VN 7
Signature of candidate (must be signed in the presence/of the filing officer or notary if eligible)
ATE O,
3 SOURS Subscribed and sworn before me this o\ | dB } Xd at
1 + ea (Month/day/year)
of a RECEIVED
(s BREA c® AS Washington County Clerk/Auditor JAN 0 Rall? Received)
* WASH WASHINGTON COUNTY
CLERK/AUDITOR |


QUAILIFICATIONS FOR CANDIDATE FILING
DECLARATION
(UTAH CODE SECTION 20A-14-202)

UTAH CANDIDATE FILING QUALIFICATIONS
Before the filing officer accepts any declaration of candidacy, the filing officer shall read to the candidate the constitutional and
statutory requirements for candidacy, and the candidate shall state whether he/she fulfills the requirements. If the candidate indicates
that he/she does not qualify, the filing officer shall decline his/her declaration of candidacy (Utah Code 20A-9-201, 202)
LOCAL SCHOOL BOARD MEMBER
Utah Code 20A-9-201, 20A-14-202

La A Resident of the local school board district in which the person is seeking office for at least one year immediately preceding

the day of the general election at which the board position will be filled.

Ww Be and remain a registered voter in the local school board district from which the member is elected or appointed; and

wy Registered voter in the local school board district from which the member is elected or appointed; and

W Maintain primary residence within the local school board district from which the member is elected or appointed

[ Amember of a local school board may not, during the member’s term in office, also serve as an employee of that board.

(Y Pay filing fee of $50.00
Please initial:
ZM The filing officer read the constitutional and statutory requirements as listed above to me, and I meet those qualifications.
AT understand that my name will appear on the ballot as it is printed on this declaration of candidacy, and that I may not make
any amendments or modifications after January 8, 2024, 5:00 pm.
a YA T have received a copy of Sections 20A-7-801 regarding the Statewide Electronic Voter Information Website and its
application deadline.
Z~_™\ Thave received a copy of the pledge of fair campaign practices, and that I understand that signing this pledge is voluntary.
Zi agree to file all campaign financial disclosure reports, and I understand that failure to do so may results in my
disqualification as a candidate for this office, removal of my name from the ballot, possible fines and/or criminal penalties.
Signature of Candidate Date
Signature of Filing Officer Date


P a Re
| WASHINGTON COUNTY
L CLERK - AUDITOR =
PLEDGE OF FAIR CAMPAIGN PRACTICES
(Utah Code §20A-9-206)

There are basic principles of decency, honesty, and fair play which every candidate for public office in the State of
Utah has a moral obligation to observe and uphold, in order that, after vigorously contested but fairly conducted
campaigns, our citizens may exercise their right to a free election, and that the will of the people may be fully
and clearly expressed on the issues.
THEREFORE:

I SHALL conduct my campaign openly and publicly, discussing the issues as I see them, presenting my record
and policies with sincerity and frankness, and criticizing, without fear or favor, the record and policies of my
opponents that I believe merit criticism.

I SHALL NOT use, nor shall I permit the use of, scurrilous attacks on any candidate or the candidate's
immediate family. I shall not participate in, nor shall I permit the use of, defamation, libel, or slander against any
candidate or the candidate's immediate family. I shall not participate in, nor shall I permit the use of, any other
criticism of any candidate or the candidate's immediate family that I do not believe to be truthful, provable, and
relevant to my campaign.

I SHALL NOT use, nor shall I permit the use of, any practice that tends to corrupt or undermine our
American system of free elections, or that hinders or prevents the free expression of the will of the voters,
including practices intended to hinder or prevent any eligible person from registering to vote or voting.

I SHALL NOT coerce election help or campaign contributions for myself or for any other candidate from my
employees or volunteers.

I SHALL immediately and publicly repudiate support deriving from any individual or group which resorts, on
behalf of my candidacy or in opposition to that of an opponent, to methods in violation of the letter or spirit of
this pledge. I shall accept responsibility to take firm action against any subordinate who violates any provision of
this pledge or the laws governing elections.

I SHALL defend and uphold the right of every qualified American voter to full and equal participation in the
electoral process.

I, the undersigned, candidate for election to public office in the State of Utah, hereby voluntarily endorse,
subscribe to, and solemnly pledge myself to conduct my campaign in accordance with the above principles and
practices.

Name: Lage Meyers Office: Local Schoo | Dist. {
——- - 7
Signature: ee 2 AX ¥ et jh Date: __\ — is 2
*This is a voluntary pledge. Candidates are not required to sign this pledge of fair campaign practices.
*This document is considered a public record and will be retained for public inspection until 30 days following
the election.
111 East TABERNACLE | St. GeorGe, UT 84770 | P 435.301.7248 | F 435.301.7249 | WASHCO.UTAH.GOV
RYAN. SULLIVAN@WASHCO.UTAH.GOV
