of
Ronala
First Name Middle Name
Last Name
(Print name EXACTLY as it shall appear on the ballot)
to retain the office of
J ud ge for the Washing ba County Jug fs C& court.
State of Utah Fs
County of i
I, k DNA ld C. Read — , dectare my intention of becoming a
candidate to retain the office of. AI uvshice Cour t | ud gs '
Ido Jase that: I can qualify to hold the office, both legally and constitutionally, if selected; I reside in
Was ing fon County, which is part of the geographic division of the court. My
court phone number is 435-301 -7 4 td 2 , and my court mailing address,
which I designate as the address for receiving official election notices, is
97 Gast Tabernocle - St. beorge , Utd 94770
I will not knowingly violate any law governing campaigns and elections; if filing via a designated agent, I will be out
of the state of Utah during the entire candidate filing period; I wilt file all campaign financial disclosure reports as
required by law and I understand that failure to do so will result in my disqualification as a candidate for this office
and removal of my name from the ballot. I request that my name be certified to the proper election officials of
Wash ’ eaton and Kan e Counties for election to the
following courts:
lash] aton Covnrty Tusdee Cott
Orde rv fle Tustice / pup
gt Candidate (must signed in the presence of the filing officer)
STATENS Filing Officer (or { Public if applcable)
Co, Os
lo INA 4
€ 8 be) 4 Subscribed and swor to before me this AA Y
Ele (month/day/year)
SAR
7 wt Sree Lieutenant Governor 2024


QUALIFICATIONS FOR CANDIDATE FILING DECLARATION
Please initial:
LE The filing officer read the constitutional and statutory requirements as listed below to me, and I meet those
qualifications.
,
‘ Ue. 1 understand that my name will appear on the ballot as it is printed on this declaration of candidacy, and that I may
not make any amendments or modifications after July 15, 2024.
LK I agree to file all campaign financial disclosure reports, and I understand that failure to do so may result in my
disqualification as a candidate for this office and removal of my name from the ballot.
HE, provided a valid email to the filing officer, or physical address if no email is available, and I understand this will
be used for official communications and updates from election officials.
Ru / I understand that I will receive all financial disclosure notices by email.
~~
(ie July 6,402
Signature of Candidate Date
Signature of Filing Officer : Date
QUALIFICATIONS
Before the filing officer accepts any declaration of candidacy, the filing officer shall read to the candidate the constitutional
and statutory requirements for candidacy, and the candidate shall state whether he/she fulfills the requirements. If the
candidate indicates that he/she does not qualify, the filing officer shall decline his/her declaration of candidacy (Utah Code
Section 20A-9-201, 202).
JUSTICE COURT JUDGE
JUSTICE OF THE SUPREME COURT Utah Constitution Article VII, Section 11; UCA 20A-12-201,
Utah Constitution Article VIE, Section ?, 9; UCA 20A-12-201 78A-7-201
* USS. citizen = US. citizen
= At least 30 years of age » At least 25 years of age
= Admitted to practice law in Utah = Resident of Utah for at least 3 years
= Resident of Utah for at least 5 years immediately prior to selection
immediately prior to selection * Resident of the county in which the court is
*  Non-partisan, unopposed retention election located or an adjacent county for at least six
= Paya filing fee of $50.00 months immediately preceding appointment
= Qualified voter* of the county in which the
COURT OF APPEALS JUDGE judge resides
DISTRICT COURT JUDGE = Have at least a diploma of graduation from high
JUVENILE COURT JUDGE school or its equivalent
Utah Constitution Article VII, Section 7, 9; UCA 20A-12-201 * — Person who has demonstrated maturity of
. as judgement, integrity, and the ability to
U.S. Citizen understand and apply appropriate law with
= Atleast 25 years of age impartiality
. Adinitted to practice law in Utah » Non-partisan, unopposed retention election
* Resident of Utah for at least 3 years = Pay a filing fee of $25.00 for each judicial
immediately prior to selection office
= Resident of the court’s geographic division .
= Non-partisan, unopposed retention election *A Qualified Voter:
= Paya filing fee of $50.00 (1) US. Citizen
(2) Resident of Utah
(3) Will, on the date of that election, be at least 18 years
old and have been a resident of Utah for 30 days
immediately before that election
(4) Registered to vote in Utah
