of
First Name Middle Name
RB ATNE
Last Name
(Print nome EXACTLY as it shall appear on the ballot)
to retain the office of
Distr Cee + dae forthe PHA Vdc nL Distt unt
State of Utah '
County of W ash‘ Aston } Ss.
I, Ke ‘ +h Cc ‘ Ba eFNnes , declare my intention of becoming a
candidate to retain the office of _)i Shere Caouc tb yuo dae .
1 do solemnly swear that: I can qualify to hold the office, both legally and constitutionally, if selected; I reside in
Was h ’ nesten County, which is part of the geographic division of the court. My
court phone number is ( 435 ) bats) 6 - Sto. > , and my court mailing address,
which I designate as the address for receiving official election notices, is
St Geo D; tet Cc We
206 W. 3 abe \e_
a 20 e
I will not knowingly iseme law eovanine ampaigns and elections; if filing via a designated agent, I will be out
of the state of Utah during the entire candidate filing period; I will file all campaign financial disclosure reports as
required by law and I understand that failure to do so will result in my disqualification as a candidate for this office
and removal of my name from the ballot. I request that my name be certified to the proper election officials of
Beay ac, “Leon ) ana Was by 1 Ag La counties for election to the
following courts:
The FF Fh Disteie+ Couch
Signature of Candidate (must signed in the presence of the filing officer) Ww, TW] 09
AS, Lb,
Qo: CeNeroy 4
th jo . LL e = ke. Co,
S qe nea 7, 0 Notary Public for other officer qual fied to administer oaths) Ory Yn
Se 4° NO OR
ied © ez 2
3 Lal Subscribed and sworn to before me this ya, _
~.. /o (monthyday/year)
SANG
Kies
(Sem AVIN ES Lieutenant Governor 2024


QUALIFICATIONS FOR CANDIDATE FILING DECLARATION
Please initial:
Fete filing officer read the constitutional and statutory requirements as listed below to me, and I meet those
qualifications.
ER understand that my name will appear on the ballot as it is printed on this declaration of candidacy, and that I may
not make any amendments or modifications after July 15, 2024.
C8 I agree to file all campaign financial disclosure reports, and I understand that failure to do so may result in my
disqualification as a candidate for this office and removal of my name from the ballot.
KE, provided a valid email to the filing officer, or physical address if no email is available, and I understand this will
be used for official communications and updates from election officials.
FS understand that I will receive all financial disclosure notices by email.
I prefer to also receive financial disclosure notices by mail at the following address:
ignature of Candidate Date
Malin: Wh pranede 13] 2ezy
Signature of Filing Officer Date
QUALIFICATIONS
Before the filing officer accepts any declaration of candidacy, the filing officer shall read to the candidate the constitutional
and statutory requirements for candidacy, and the candidate shall state whether he/she fulfitls the requirements. If the
candidate indicates that he/she does not qualify, the filing officer shall decline his/her declaration of candidacy (Utah Code
Section 20A-9-201, 202).
JUSTICE COURT JUDGE
JUSTICE OF THE SUPREME COURT Utah Constitution Article Vill, Section 11; UCA 20A-12-201,
Utah Constitution Article VII, Section 7,9; UCA 20A-12-201 78A-7-201
s US. citizen « US. citizen
* At least 30 years of age * At least 25 years of age
» Admitted to practice law in Utah = Resident of Utah for at least 3 years
* — Resident of Utah for at least 5 years immediately prior to selection
immediately prior to selection * Resident of the county in which the court is
» Non-partisan, unopposed retention election located or an adjacent county for at least six
» Pay a filing fee of $50.00 months immediately preceding appointment
= Qualified voter* of the county in which the
COURT OF APPEALS JUDGE judge resides
DISTRICT COURT JUDGE = Have at least a diployha Of graduation from high
JUVENILE COURT JUDGE school or its equivalent
Utah Constitution Article VHT, Section 7, 9; UCA 20A-12-201 « Person who has d mons fe
ops judgement, integrity, and the al
* U.S. Citizen understand and/apply apstg, riate PRD
" At least 25 years of age impartiality Ww la 0
. Admitted to practice law in Utah * —Non-partisad unopy entindaion
® Resident of Utah for at least 3 years «Paya filing fee ofS get ju izial
immediately prior to selection office Ay Coy,
® — Resident of the court’s geographic division , Lap My
* Non-partisan, unopposed retention election *A Qualified Voter:
* Paya filing fee of $50.00 (1) USS. Citizen
(2) Resident of Utah
(3) Will, on the date of that election, be at least 18 years
old and have been a resident of Utah for 30 days
immediately before that election
(4) Registered to vote in Utah
