Ges
/ \
COUNTY OFFICE
WASHINGTON COUNTY
La CLERK - AUDITOR ~!
DECLARATION OF CANDIDACY
—_—
CANDIDATE NAME: __( HY Uc K CS OO NE&
Print name EXACTLY as it shall appear on the ballot. (No amendments or modifications after January 8, 2024, 5:00 pm)
THIS IS A PUBLIC FORM FOR DISPLAY ON THE COUNTY WEBSITE
N
Office to file for: VI ASHING TOV CoOenyy LD MMMAISSCONE WR Stl Cc
District (Seat): :
Iam a member of the ] EM 0c RAT\ Cm political party.
Address (Home or Mailing):
OR
Phone: 45S S=KOG ~ an Sd
Email (Optional): chk salts @ Gane: CSM
Website (Optional): —§ C L, Lc fe 5 ey. doe Com
ne the nomination using:
he convention process described in Utah Code 20A-9-407;
U The signature-gathering process described in Utah Code 20A-9-408;
U Both the convention process and the signature-gathering process.
x CQ Grae __ an
Signature of candidate (must be signed in the presence of the filing officer or notary if eligible)
OF
[EES RECEIVED
SA + Subscribed and sworn before me this O\ | bs | x ony JAN 08 2
] (Month/day/year) 8 2024
aA ~ |2 WASHINGTON Co}
3 Bi oF a NY LO, Washington County Clerk/Auditor Date Received) N
GREK
O NED


UTAH CANDIDATE FILING QUALIFICATIONS

Before the filing officer accepts any declaration of candidacy, the filing officer shall read to the candidate the constitutional and
statutory requirements for candidacy, and the candidate shall state whether he/she fulfills the requirements. If the candidate indicates
that he/she does not qualify, the filing officer shall decline his/her declaration of candidacy (Utah Code 20A-9-201, 202)

¢ All candidates must be United States citizens. Elected officials must maintain their residence within the elected district.
COUNTY COMMISSION, COUNTY CLERK, AUDITOR, RECORDER AND TREASURER - Utah Code 17-16-1
e A Registered voter in the county.
e At least one year resident of the county immediately before the date of election.
COUNTY ASSESSOR - Utah code 17-16-1; 17-17-2
¢ A registered voter in the county.
¢ At least one year resident of the county immediately before the date of the election.
¢ Those candidates seeking the office of county assessor in a first through Third Class County must be a state licensed or state
certified appraiser before filing for office. All other candidates for county assessor shall be a state-licensed or state certified
appraiser on which the person’s term of office begins.
COUNTY ATTORNEY - Utah code 20A-9-201 (3) (b)
e An attorney licensed to practice law in Utah and is a member of good standing with the Utah State Bar.
e A registered voter of the county for at least one year or was appointed and is currently serving as county attorney and became
a resident of the county within 30 days after appointment.
COUNTY SHERIFF - Utah Code 1716-1; 17-22-1.5
e A registered voter in the county.
¢ At least one year resident of the county by the date of the election.
¢ — At the time of filing: Has successfully met the requirements of the Peace Officer Training and Certification Act; or has passed
a certification examination and be qualified to be certified as defined in Section 53-13-103.
e Present a POST certification with the declaration of candidacy and be certified as a correctional officer. (Filing officer will
make a copy and keep with forms.)
QUAILIFICATIONS FOR CANDIDATE FILING AFFIDAVIT
(UTAH CODE SECTION 20A-9-201)
Please initial:

ee, he filing officer read the constitutional and statutory requirements as listed above to me, and I meet those qualifications.

ea understand that my name will appear on the ballot as it is printed on this declaration of candidacy, and that I may not make
any ndments or modifications after January 8, 2024, 5:00pm.

¢ \ Ye I have received a copy of Sections 20A-7-801 regarding the Statewide Electronic Voter Information Website and its
applfcdtion deadline.

( y “/Thave received a copy of the pledge of fair campaign practices, and that I understand that signing this pledge is voluntary.

Q . VA agree to file all campaign financial disclosure reports, and I understand that failure to do so may results in my
disq¥ahfication as a candidate for this office, removal of my name from the ballot, possible fines and/or criminal penalties.
Signature of Candidate Date

Radar Douks \, @' SON
Signature of Filing Officer Date


{WASHINGTON COUNTY |
E CLERK - AUDITOR =|
PLEDGE OF FAIR CAMPAIGN PRACTICES
(Utah Code §20A-9-206)

There are basic principles of decency, honesty, and fair play which every candidate for public office in the State of
Utah has a moral obligation to observe and uphold, in order that, after vigorously contested but fairly conducted
campaigns, our citizens may exercise their right to a free election, and that the will of the people may be fully
and clearly expressed on the issues.
THEREFORE:

I SHALL conduct my campaign openly and publicly, discussing the issues as I see them, presenting my record
and policies with sincerity and frankness, and criticizing, without fear or favor, the record and policies of my
opponents that I believe merit criticism.

I SHALL NOT use, nor shall I permit the use of, scurrilous attacks on any candidate or the candidate's
immediate family. I shall not participate in, nor shall I permit the use of, defamation, libel, or slander against any
candidate or the candidate's immediate family. I shall not participate in, nor shall I permit the use of, any other
criticism of any candidate or the candidate's immediate family that I do not believe to be truthful, provable, and
relevant to my campaign.

I SHALL NOT use, nor shall I permit the use of, any practice that tends to corrupt or undermine our
American system of free elections, or that hinders or prevents the free expression of the will of the voters,
including practices intended to hinder or prevent any eligible person from registering to vote or voting.

I SHALL NOT coerce election help or campaign contributions for myself or for any other candidate from my
employees or volunteers.

I SHALL immediately and publicly repudiate support deriving from any individual or group which resorts, on
behalf of my candidacy or in opposition to that of an opponent, to methods in violation of the letter or spirit of
this pledge. I shall accept responsibility to take firm action against any subordinate who violates any provision of
this pledge or the laws governing elections.

I SHALL defend and uphold the right of every qualified American voter to full and equal participation in the
electoral process.

I, the undersigned, candidate for election to public office in the State of Utah, hereby voluntarily endorse,
subscribe to, and solemnly pledge myself to conduct my campaign in accordance with the above principles and
practices.

| Sales
Name: ¢ iN uk Goo Office: G vey Cogan (SS ovr
Signature: ( l j C236 ree Date: {[~ Ss ~ D4
*This is a voluntary pledge. Candidates are not required to sign this pledge of fair campaign practices.
*This document is considered a public record and will be retained for public inspection until 30 days following
the election.
111 East TaseRNacce | St. Georce, UT 84770 | P 435.301.7248 | F 435.301.7249 | wasHco.uTaAH.Gov
RYAN. SULLIVAN@WASHCO.UTAH.GOV
